Q2 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. Our first question is from the line of `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. at Barclays. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. ``Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. here. I have a question on pricing in China in particular, but
also in the rest of the world. I mean, you said on the press call this morning that incentives have
got higher in China. Have you been seeing increased pressure in the last months, or has it been
an ongoing steady state of increase? And then my other question regarding pricing in the rest of
the world, particularly Europe, are you seeing the recovery in southern Europe driving some
improved pricing there? And then my final question relates to FX. Just wondering how far ahead
you are hedged on FX now, whether you've still got a policy of still (36:45) two years ahead, or
whether you're doing anymore longer term hedging? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Kristina. So I think we start with Mr. Eichiner. Please, Fritz.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
So hello, Kristina. So your first question about China. So basically we still feel that there is pressure
on pricing. From our perspective, the development has slowed down a bit, but has not reached
the final point. And that's what we're experiencing so far in the China development. In other
markets, as I mentioned U.S., because of the exchange rate gains, there is more pressure on
pricing, is a bit more sales support involved, but so far not alarming yet. And in Europe, we see
improvement on pricing. So with the recovery of the markets in Europe, we gained some pricing
power back. Overall, worldwide, it's a burden for us that was not expected in the first half of this
year. And we expect, for the whole year, some headwinds in between 50 basis points or, let's
say, 100 basis points. That's what our expectation is today. `Now, to our third main topic. Our strong and attractive premium brands are what makes our cars, FX, clearly, we have a strong
position, not only for this year, but also for next year. And even for 2017, there are covers already
in place.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
Q - `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Next question, please?
Operator
Our next question is from the line of `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead with your
question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
Yes. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I would like to focus on five main topics: first, the. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for for taking my questions. There will be two, please. the
first one is, you under produced and slightly reduced inventories in Q2 despite being ahead of
the summer break. And just looking into your model lineup, how should we think about growth
and mix from here? You obviously spoke about the...
A - Unverified Participant
Sorry. Tim, sorry, can you speak not so fast?Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
Yeah, yeah, no problem.
A - Unverified Participant
And the connection is not very good. Okay.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
Can you hear me well?
A - Unverified Participant
Yeah. Start again, please.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
I hear myself as well on the line. So you slightly under produced in Q2, reduced the inventories
despite being ahead of the summer break. Just looking at your model lineup, how should we
think about growth and mix from here? You obviously spoke about the 7 Series and the X1 for
example. But it appears most of that is rather backend-loaded and the mix at least until the final
quarter remains rather skewed towards compact models. And is it fair to assume that we don't
see much of an improvement in growth and mix beforehand? And, if so, how does that go down
with the outlook of a solid EBT increase, given that you still have some ramp-up that starts
(39:38) probably in the second half?
`Second, the Americas. In the Americas, our sales also climbed by 9.5%. In the U.S., we deliveredly, and just to clarify, sorry, but on China. You were certainly very early in warning about
slow down, although probably not at this pace. In your outlook statement, you're now mentioning
that the further deterioration could obviously been negative for the outlook. From the press call
this morning, you were quoted saying that you see growth in H2 at a stabilization at least in your
equity income line. Can you really just help us understand what your current views on China are,
not in the long-term, but really just in the coming quarters? And most importantly, what your
confidence on this outlook is and the visibility on the market right now? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Tim. We start with Harald Krüger and then with Eichiner. Harald?
A - Harald Krüger
The one first question was on the model lineup for the second-half. I mean, we will have a
positive momentum because the new X1 will come to the dealers by the end of October, which
will help us in Europe and worldwide. The second one, the new 7 Series will come to the dealers
by the end of October as well, which is an important product for us. `Also, our industry must reduce carbon emissions further in line with regulatory requirements,, the MINI Clubman will
come to the dealers. So we will have three new products, as well as the new face-lifted 3 Series
Sedan will also come to the market. So we will see a product momentum which we expect in the
second half of 2015.
`Second, the Americas. In the Americas, our sales also climbed by 9.5%. In the U.S., we deliveredly, China. China overall, we see on the long-term and mid-term as a positive market,
definitely with future growth `opportunities, but there are also challenges. as well. We have decided in the past also to extend
our local production from three to six models in China. So with that models coming to the market
and beginning – starting in 2016 and 2017, we will see also some growth in China in the future.Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
And that is also true for the coming quarters?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, let me pickup up the question and give you a view on how we see the second half of the
year. Basically, we have to see that we are in a transition period because the major models that
are very relevant for the Chinese market are changing over. So for example, 7 Series, which is on
the import side of our important model will come in late in the year and with the run out of the
old model. Same point in time, we have the launch of the face-lifted 3 Series, which is a volume
model within our local production. Those are the changes that are coming. And we have to
manage the run out in a situation where the market is weakening. So things are coming together,
let's say, on negative side in the first half of the year. And our view is that we could gain more
momentum in the second half of the year as soon as the new models will be launched and will
contribute to sales. So that's how we look at it, but we cannot rule out that the situation in China is
worsening even more than we have assumed so far. So basically our assumption is that it should
be possible now with the momentum coming in on the product side to stabilize now going
forward our China business. That's the underlining assumption for our guidance. And if this is
strongly deteriorating further, then it definitely would be an issue. That's what I have to admit.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. Thank you. Next question, please?
Operator
So we're now over to Marc Tonn of Warburg Research.. Please go ahead with your question. Your
line is now open.
Q - `Marc-René Tonn, Warburg Research GmbH
Yes. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I would like to focus on five main topics: first, the. Coming back to China, perhaps going to dealer support with which you
agreed upon. Can you maybe tell us how much this was broadening the operating `result, an EBIT margin in the Automotive segment in the target range of 8% to 10%. and
whether there had been anything in your equity `result, an EBIT margin in the Automotive segment in the target range of 8% to 10%. as well? And what your view on this is on
the second half of the year on what may take as another burden? (43:34)
The second question would be, you said that pricing developed much weaker than we had
expected, but you're confirming your guidance for the full year. Is there anything which you could
do to offset the weaker-than-expected pricing development so far?
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for Marc. Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
First of all, yes, it's true, we had some dealer compensation in the first half of the year and that
came in on the BBA side as well as on the import side. So that's part of our `result, an EBIT margin in the Automotive segment in the target range of 8% to 10%. so far. I think we
had a big dealer conference in China. We have not only compensated for what happened veryquickly for the – and was a surprise for the dealer as well. We have now rebalanced our business
in China in order of the channel, at direction we want to go. We strengthened the pipeline, we've
taken out the pressure on the inventory side, all that stuff we did should support the dealers to
get back to `profitability, and is constantly enhancing its competitiveness to achieve this. We are using our and we made absolutely clear. So we now think that we are back in a
normal business environment and that further support spendings are not necessary from this
point on going forward. So that's a position of what we have. In a nutshell, I think we cleaned it up
now and we hope that's enough and we are looking forward to a more normal business that
should be supported with the new models coming in, in the second half of the year. So your
question about pricing, of course, we are working on pricing, so we're working on the mix, we are
working on option pickup, we're working on costs, we are working in several `area, we also intend to be the leader.s to counteract
negative pricing development in certain markets.
Q - `Marc-René Tonn, Warburg Research GmbH
Thanks.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please?
Operator
We are now over to the line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI of Evercore ISI. Please go ahead with your
question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
`Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I would like to focus on five main topics: first, the, everyone. I have two questions for `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., please. Firstly, on the BMW i
strategy. A couple of years `ago, at 456,000 vehicles. But as we have stressed for some time now, that kind of dynamic, BMW spent a lot of time and effort to convince the investment
community that there's a great and exciting business model, manufacturing efficiencies, electric
mobility concepts and business models. And you've invested all the money now, and now you've
turned pretty quiet it seems. And I think many of your investors wonder why it takes you so long
to come up with another product, which if I read your comments correctly, that you've made so
far, could take another two years to three years from here. So could you talk a little bit about your
view on BMW i, and whether it's a wrong perception here that you're turning a bit more quiet and
it's just taking all much longer than at least we previously thought?
And secondly, Krüger, quickly on the digital business model, which you referred to quite often,
and not just yourself, but others as well. So what is the risk that this is just another excuse for the
industry overall and to yourself to spend billions of shareholder funds on something that no one
knows how to make money with? Is in your thinking of this involving business model, do you really
believe BMW can maintain the current level of `profitability, and is constantly enhancing its competitiveness to achieve this. We are using our in light of huge power train expenditure
in the coming years moving to electric mobility? And on top of all of that, pretty much a trial run to
differentiate your business model from competition from the likes of Google, Apple and so far.
So the question here really is, how can you turn this into a profitable business model? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Good. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead.?
A - Harald Krüger
Okay. I would start with the BMW i strategy. First of all, I think, as I mentioned before, we sold
12,500 BMW i in the first half of 2015. And in June, by itself it was more than 2,000, which is a65% increase compared to the `previous year, due in part to currency tailwinds. EBIT for the same period almost doubled to €227. With the BMW i3, we already immediately became
the third highest selling electric vehicle worldwide. And as we always said, the BMW i is something
which we need to look at the long-term, because as you know that all across the globe, especially
in Europe, the CO2 regulations in the future for 2020 are that tough that without electrification,
without electric drive trains, you will have no chance to meet those regulations. So it was also
helping us, in a company, for example, to drive future electric drive trains like we are now
launching the X5 with the plug-in hybrid. The i8 is a plug-in hybrid. So we are benefiting from the
knowledge we have developed with i3 and i8. That's on the BMW i. But as mentioned before, it's
a long-term story and it will be a change in our industry, definitely in the future.
`Second, the Americas. In the Americas, our sales also climbed by 9.5%. In the U.S., we deliveredly, was on what do we do with digitalization? Is that just costing more? And how can we
make a profitable business out of that? First of all, our industry is definitely changing significantly
in that `area, we also intend to be the leader.. Why is digitalization a chance and also must in an opportunity. If you look at what we
did with HERE and the acquisition which we did with the three premium brands, HERE is giving us
in the future the advantage to have good cloud maps, which is absolutely important for our
autonomous driving in the future, which is absolutely important for safer driving. The more – the
better map is, the better the car knows it, the better the quality will be of driving in the future. So
that is a strategic opportunity and a must in the future, in my view. `Also, our industry must reduce carbon emissions further in line with regulatory requirements,, digitalization gives you
the chance and it's not just on the maps, it's also in other `area, we also intend to be the leader.s like future retail and other things,
which are important where you can do online marketing, online selling. So that definitely will
change our industry, I'm certainly convinced on this one. And it gives us `opportunities, but there are also challenges., if you think
about just about online selling of vehicles, the transaction costs of those ones can be cheaper
than just selling them all through the dealers. So that is just one opportunity, but we are currently
in the face of exploring this one more in detail.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
Yeah. If I just may say, those two explanations are both fairly defensive. On the BMW i, you're
basically telling us, it is to meet fuel efficiency standards. On the digitalization, it's – you are
reacting to something that's happening in the market. Again, I mean, how will your shareholders
in future benefit from the better BMW business model?
A - Harald Krüger
I think as I mentioned in my speech, we're currently in the middle of the process of the strategy
assessment for 2015 and, look around, and look at the trends, and what does it mean and some
more answers on this one, they need some more time to do it thoroughly and more in detail and
that will take some more time.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
All right. I appreciate that. Thank you.
Operator
We are now over to the line of Charles Winston at Redburn Partners. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Redburn Partners LLP `
Yeah. Hi. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I would like to focus on five main topics: first, the. Charles at Redburn. Three quick ones for me if you don't mind. Firstly, I
imagine, you must have an idea, and I'm sorry for being so short term-ish, but you must have anidea about sort of the performance of China in July, clearly being quite a debating point in the
market. I wonder if you could give us a little bit of color on that?
`Second, the Americas. In the Americas, our sales also climbed by 9.5%. In the U.S., we deliveredly, the impact of mix and sales mix and product mix. My understanding is that one of the
quite – an adverse impact, particularly in this 2Q `result, an EBIT margin in the Automotive segment in the target range of 8% to 10%.s, and I was wondering if you could perhaps
give us your thoughts as to how that might develop in the year? Could it be that by the fourth
quarter, the impact from mix could be virtually zero, or is that a bit optimistic?
And then finally, you talked about hopefully reaching a point where the dealer support spending
into China should be – we shouldn't require any more. Clearly, there was quite a big dealer
support payment made in the fourth quarter last year. Shouldn't we interpret that – actually there
could be a profit tailwind in the fourth quarter of this year as that dealer support payment is not
repeated? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Charles. So we start very briefly with Harald and then Fritz Eichiner.
Harald, please?
A - Harald Krüger
The question was on the sales side on China in July. Maybe it's just starting with the quarter one
and quarter two. This premium segment in the quarter one was growing around about on the
average of 7.5%. Quarter two was already 3%. So you saw, months by months, a declining
premium segment in China. And July will definitely be out of the range in terms of – I think July will
be on that trend curve.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you, Harald. Fritz, please?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, first about the mix, your question about mix development. Basically, as you said already, this
year is MINI year. So MINI is growing heavily. We have the ramp-up of many new models, double-
digit growth, whilst BMW is in a situation where so far, the development is much lower than on the
MINI side. And having said that, within the BMW volume, we are launching more compact vehicles
at that point in time. That means that if you look at the year as a total, because of those dynamics
in our portfolio, this year basically will be a bit weaker than 2014. But having said this, at the end of
the year, I think then we'll see a change, and this change is heavily important for the year 2016
because then, of course, cars like the new 7 Series will play a significant role going forward. So
that's a point in time now where our portfolio is in a certain position, and this is reflected in the
mix numbers.
A - Harald Krüger
It's Harald again. Just to add to information, July worldwide, it's looking like that we will have an
all-time high in the Group for July. But it will be in lower one-digit growth numbers.
A - Unverified Participant
Good. Gentlemen, thank you very much. Next question, please?
OperatorWe now go over to `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) at HSBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Yeah. Thanks. Its `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) from HSBC. First of all again, a question on pricing. Maybe you
can quantify what was the level of pricing in Q1 and in Q2, with regard to price changes. I mean,
you say it's 50 basis points to 100 basis points on a full-year basis. So where is the run rate now?
That's something I want to know. And then, beginning of your speech, `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., you elaborated
on capacity growth. Maybe you can tell us where your global capacity utilization is right now, and
maybe you can update us what is the current level of capacity in China, and what is your
prospective growth for 2015 and 2016? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. So we start with Fritz and then Harald.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
So overall, Horst, I think pricing in the first two quarters was at the same level as we guided for
the whole of the year. So we lost between 50 basis points and 100 basis points.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
All right. Thank you.
A - Harald Krüger
Okay. On the capacity, I would like to start maybe with what I mentioned first, the NAFTA region.
We will expand plant Spartanburg to 450,000 units by the end of 2016. We have last year
opened a new factory in Brazil with 30,000 units, and we will have the plant in `Mexico, with its numerous bilateral and regional free trade agreements is a location with a opening
2019 with 150,000 units a year.
So the NAFTA region is around about 600,000 units plus Brazil. So it's one side of the medal. We
also have increased the capacity in China from 300,000 units to 400,000 units. And as Fritz
Eichiner mentioned, we are also building a new engine plant in China, which is part of the
investments we have in our joint venture. So that is also coming. Overall, the question was about
the capacity utilization, and the capacity utilization is measured by the Harvard Methodology,
which we use, is more than 125%. That's one of the reasons why I said we need to investment
into future production expansion also, that we can have more `opportunities, but there are also challenges. for growth in the
future. And those regions where are our main markets, because we follow one strategy, which is
clearly production follows markets.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
The 125% is global including China or excluding China? And then also follow-up on China, so your
utilizations at the moment is just at 70%, and you want to grow into the additional capacity with
the new models in the next two years, is that correct?
A - Harald Krüger
No, this is the worldwide average, the number I gave you.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `Okay. And China is at the moment, just 70% utilized then, right, since the new models will be
added?
A - Harald Krüger
Fritz, please (57:52).
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
No, that's not the case, that we have a – don't have a big capacity there that utilize the 70%,
because we are increasing capacity only with the introduction of new models. So with the next
introduction of the new model...
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Okay.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
...then the capacity will be increased. That's the way we're doing it, and that is always assuring
that we are running almost higher than 100% capacity utilization, and that's still the case in China
as well, right? But the possibility we have with the structure in place is that, with the models to
come, we are able to increase capacities in Dadong and Tiexi.
A - Harald Krüger
And to add to this one, you need two years to three years prior to your capacity decisions, you
need to take the first steps, yeah? And as we're localizing six models now in the future, from
three to six, as I mentioned, we need – you need to start two years and three years ahead,
otherwise the capacity is not ready.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Okay. That's clear. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
So thank you very much. Next question, please?
Operator
We're now over to line of Fraser Hill at Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Fraser E. Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I would like to focus on five main topics: first, the. It's Fraser Hill. Just wanted to come back to the auto division and looking at
the other cost changes in that division. I think you've been guiding that roughly to high triple-digit
million step-up for 2015. And I know that's tied into your emission-related and technology-related
costs. So is that guidance still roughly right for 2015? And could you give us a little bit of color as
to what the step-up was in Q2 or are those cost factors accelerating due to the reasons that you
outlined earlier in your speeches? I guess, tied into that, when you look at your guidance in terms
of the margin growth, 8% to 10% margins for the auto division, do you expect to be in that range
in the second half of this year or given the pricing mix cost advents that we've seen, do you think
we could actually be dipping below that range into the second half of 2015?And then finally just on your China volumes for this year, you've been clear about the deceleration
that we're seeing in the market, specifically what do you expect for your end volumes this year
for BMW volumes in China? And I guess, your confidence on the lack of further dealer dropouts is
a function of, in your mind, a realistic level of growth now being agreed on both sides of
equation? So what is that expectation on growth on your part? Thanks.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Fraser. Mr. Eichiner, please?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Basically, our guidance for the cost changes is still valid. I think we have to face burden from a
whole year of a mid-to-high triple-digit million euro amount. It's related to future costs in R&D, it's
also related to cost for HR activities. Wages increased especially in Germany and we have to
introduce new models and marketing costs are coming along with that. So those are basically
made to drive us off cost increases going forward. And that's valid for the whole year as well as
for the specific quarters.
`Now, to our third main topic. Our strong and attractive premium brands are what makes our cars, on the question about the 8% to 10%, we still expect to be in that range, it's still – that is still
our target going forward. Of course, we cannot rule out that the one or other quarter because of
unforeseen incidences is heavily under pressure, but we still think today that our guidance stands
for 8% to 10% for the `year 2015, the company is aiming for a ratio within its target range of 5% to 5.5% of revenue. We. And your question about volumes in China, basically we are
expecting growth in China for the year. It will be slightly up. So it will be definitely not in a double-
digit range.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. So ladies and gentlemen, we are on time. But we have time for one more
question. Please, last question comes from?
Operator
Our last question comes from the line of Stuart Pearson at Exane BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Exane Ltd. `
Yeah. Thank you. Just one last question, just following on I guess from Fraser's question. I mean,
obviously this key expectation about the 8% to 10% margin range and, clearly, I wonder if you can
just talk about how see that range, whether that's something that, I guess, will be addressed as
part of your strategic review when we look into the years for 2016 and beyond. Is that the way
you think your target margins going forward? Should we think about a widening of that range?
And I guess, coming to the near-term, in H2, normally there's some seasonality around this H2, is
normally less than H1, at least the last few years. Is there any reason why that will be different this
year or H2 should be a little bit better or should we expect similar seasonality to last year, i.e., H2
less than H1? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `Yeah. Basically, I think you shouldn't speculate whether this strategy will bring going forward. I
think we first have to finalize and then we come back to your guys and tell you what the targets
are. We can confirm we have different ones, it's too early as for your understanding.
`Now, to our third main topic. Our strong and attractive premium brands are what makes our cars, looking at the seasonality, clearly, as you know, we always have more CapEx and more
spend, especially on the R&D side in the second half of the year. And we have, the 7 Series
introduction ahead of us which will definitely drive launch costs and things like that as well in the
second half. So that's a strong part of the story. On the other hand, we get – we are gaining
some momentum back as we said, with the introduction of new models. So I would say, it will be a
similar picture than last year, not much different. That's what we are expecting from the
distribution of the quarter. Having said that, there's one difference, and I mentioned it already, the
`second quarter, with a corresponding impact on earnings. 2015 was shaped in a different way because in `second quarter, with a corresponding impact on earnings. 2014, we still had
a very booming the market in China and we had positive elements that are not in place in 2015.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Mr. Eichiner. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead.. `Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group has set itself the target of sustained growth and strong, thank
you for joining us today. We wish you a wonderful holidays and we look forward to seeing you on
the Frankfurt Motor Show. `Thank you very much, Fritz Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for and bye-bye.