Q1 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Takano (0:46) from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
Unverified Participant
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the Financial Results Conference Call for the Fiscal Year 2016 First
Quarter. I am Nobukatsu Takano (0:58) from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor
Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division, Managing Officer in-charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation, and Ms. Morita (1:11), our interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is as follows. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then, Ms. Morita will take over the rest of the
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning insider forward-looking statement is included on page
two of today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider
trading is included on page three. Both of the statement can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the three months from April to June 2015.
Let me start with slide five. Compared to the same period last year, consolidated vehicle sales
for the first quarter were down 127,000 units to 2,241,000 units as a result of weaker sales mainly
in Japan, Asia, the Middle-East and Africa, despite stronger sales in North America.
Please turn to slide six. Consolidated fiscal financial performance for the first quarter resulted in
net revenues of ¥ 6,987.6 billion, operating income of ¥756.0 billion, pre-tax income of ¥845.2
billion, and net income of ¥646.3 billion.Now, I would like to hand the rest of today's presentation to Ms. Keiko Morita (3:31), our
interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Next, using slide seven, I would like to highlight the major factors, which impacted operating
income for the first quarter year-on-year. Favorable foreign exchange rates and cost reduction
efforts were main positive factors. While increased expenses to support initiatives for enhancing
competitiveness and decrease vehicle sales were negative factors.
As a result, operating income increased by ¥63.2 billion compared to the same period of the last
fiscal year.
Next, I would like to discuss the first quarter operating income for each region. Please look at
slide eight. In Japan, vehicle sales were 470,000 units, down 36,000 units year-on-year, mainly
as a result of the adverse effect of an increase in light vehicle tax this fiscal year. Despite the
negative factors such as decreased vehicle sales and increased expenses, operating income was
up ¥109.8 billion year-on-year to ¥475.8 billion year-on-year due to favorable foreign exchange
rates and cost reduction efforts. Toyota and Lexus brand retail sales were up 15,000 units year-
on-year to 335,000 units.
Please look at slide nine. In North America, against the backdrop of a solid market environment,
vehicle sales increased by 19,000 units year-on-year to 729,000 units driven by the Lexus NX, the
Tacoma, and the Highlander in particular. In spite of increased vehicle sales and cost reduction
efforts, operating income excluding swap evaluation gains and losses was ¥151.1 billion, broadly
unchanged year-on-year due to increased expenses.
Please turn to slide 10. In Europe, vehicle sales remained at the level of the first quarter of last
year at 206,000 units. Vehicle sales grew in Western Europe where the markets were solid, but
slump in Russia where demand shrunk dramatically. Despite cost reduction efforts, operating
income was ¥7.8 billion, down ¥3.0 billion year-on-year, mainly due to the foreign exchange
translational impact. Please note that the fiscal year for our subsidiaries in Russia end in
December. Therefore, these figures I cited reflects their performance from January to March
2015.
Please turn to slide 11. In Asia, overall vehicles sales were down 57,000 units year-on-year to
328,000 units. This was due to decrease in sales in Thailand and Indonesia, where demand
remained depressed and competition intensified, as well as the impact of production adjustment
related to the changeover of the Hilux in Thailand. Operating income was ¥100.0 billion, down
¥10.2 billion year-on-year as a result of decreased vehicle sales.
Please move onto slide 12. In other regions, overall vehicles sales decreased by 52,000 units
year-on-year to 381,000 units, due to decreased sales in the Middle East, Central America and
South America, and Africa. Operating income, however, was up ¥3.9 billion year-on-year to ¥38.0
billion, thanks to marketing efforts such as pricing improvement, which offset the negative impact
of the depreciation of emerging market currencies.
Now, please look at slide 13 for financial services. Operating income excluding swap valuation
gains and losses for the first quarter was ¥96.8 billion, up ¥14.7 billion compared to the same
period of the last fiscal year. This was mainly due to an increased lending balance and the
translational impact of foreign currencies.Next please refer to slide 14. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the first quarter was
¥100.9 billion, down ¥4.4 billion year-on-year. The contribution from affiliated companies in China
decreased by ¥15.5 billion, mainly as a consequence of increased sales expenses and
deterioration of the model mix. Please note that the fiscal year end of our affiliated companies in
China is in December, therefore equity in earnings of these companies for the first quarter
reflects their earnings from January to March 2015.
Now, I'd like to move on to discuss our outlook for the full fiscal year ending in March 2016. Please
look at slide 16. First with regards to consolidated vehicle sales, we are raising our initial forecast
by 50,000 units to 8.95 million units. We expect stronger sales in Japan, North America and
Europe despite weaker sales in Asia, Central and South America and Africa.
Please turn to slide 17 for a summary of the latest forecast of our consolidated financial
performance for the full year. As mentioned in the second footnote in the slide, we maintained
our initial forex assumptions for July onwards because of uncertainties surrounding the currency
markets. Our forecast of net revenues is now revised to ¥27,800 billion, up ¥300 billion from our
initial forecast, reflecting the forex impact and the revised repo sales outlook. Our latest forecast
of operating income is ¥2,800 billion.
Please look at slide 18, which compares our latest forecast of operating income with our previous
forecast. We maintained our previous forecast in consideration of both positive factors such as
the actual forex rate for the first quarter, and the revised outlook of full year vehicle sales, and
the negative factors such as the effects of marketing activities in Russia and China, and an
increase in expenses.
Please look at slide 19. Our forecast of R&D expenses remains unchanged from the previous
forecast. As for CapEx and depreciation expenses, our latest forecasts are up ¥10 billion to ¥1,210
billion, and ¥880 billion respectively reflecting the forex impact.
Finally, please look at slide 20. As before, we remain committed to our efforts to build ever
better cars. In the second half of the current fiscal year, we plan to conduct full scale marketing
campaigns for the new Hilux and Fortuner models, which recently went on sale in Thailand. These
models will subsequently be rolled out to other markets.
We will also start production of the new Lexus RX at plants in Japan and Canada. We also plan to
launch the first model incorporating TNGA before the year is out. In China, we will offer hybrid
versions of the Corolla and the Levin, which were introduced at Auto Shanghai 2015. These
models will feature our first hybrid powertrain components developed and produced outside
Japan. We will steadily prepare for the launch and the marketing of these new models, which we
expect to contribute to our vehicle sales.
At the same time, we will continue to strengthen our profit structure by improving our gross
margin per vehicle and controlling fixed costs.
This concludes my presentation on the financial results for the first quarter of the fiscal year.
For your information, please note that we made an announcement concerning our share
repurchase schedule, and the latest sales and production plans for calendar year 2015 earlier
today. Please refer to our press releases for details. Thank you very much for your attention.
Thank you. Now, we'll gladly take your questions, but only up to two questions per person please.
Other questions may be posted later if time allows. You do not have to give your name. Our
conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Takano (12:46)
Hello.
Hello.
Yes. Can you hear me? I'm not sure I'm connected?
You are connected.
Okay. Hello. Sorry about this. My first question is on profitability in North America, which was
basically flat in the first quarter, and considering that (13:58) were higher and you said you
lowered production cost, there must have been a sharp rise in selling expenses. And I just
wondered if you can elaborate on the situation there? And then maybe also on the development
of incentives and also on the model mix impact that we have seen in first quarter in North
America, if that was positive?
The second question would be on the situation in China, where we saw a sharp drop in equity
income, and I think you mentioned sales expense as model mix as negative factors and I just
wondered, if pricing situation has deteriorated as well for Toyota, and if you could maybe give us
your outlook on China for the remainder of the year? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (14:46-15:33)
[Foreign Language] (15:34-16:36)
Thank you for your question. Let me first of all add further explanation to your first question, that
is to say, the profitability of North American business in the first quarter and the factors behind
those changes. As I mentioned in my presentation earlier, the sales volume increased by 19,000
units and we have seen some improvement in model mix as well and also the marketing efforts
among others contributed ¥35 billion in the positive way.
Furthermore, cost improvement efforts are going on and benefits therein are being accumulated.
However, we do have some negative factors including the exchange rate relationship between
the U.S. dollar vis-à-vis Canadian dollar, and U.S. vis-à-vis Mexican peso and those exchange
related factors depressed the operating income by ¥10 billion. And also, there has been some
increase in expenses including warranty expenses and some increase in quality related costs, and
those factors resulted in the actual profit we have seen in the numbers.
[Foreign Language] (17:45-018:06)
Moving on to your second question that relates to the decrease in earnings from China
accounted for under equity method. And the numbers described in the presentation for the
current period relates to the actual performance of a Chinese business between January and
March this year. And that is accounted for as the earnings from the equity method based
affiliates.
[Foreign Language] (18:34-19:01)
In the same period, the sales volume remained more or less the same as the same period lastwell as deterioration in model mix caused the earnings based upon equity methods to decrease
in China.
[Foreign Language] (19:2519:52)
In terms of outlook of sales volume going forward, on the other hand, as reflected in actual sales
in June and July, despite the market trends Toyota sales volume has increased in those two
months. And on the full year basis, we are expecting some decrease on year-on-year basis, but
we are not forecasting the earnings decrease as we saw in the first quarter.
That's great. Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (20:30)
Thank you. Next please?
So following on from that, on slide 17, your full year guidance has equity earnings flat year-over-
year or just up a little bit and yet China was down materially in Q1. Are you looking for China
equity income to recover in the rest of the year to increase year-on-year in the rest of the year?
Question one. Question two, on slide 18, the change in your operating profit forecast, what is the
increase in expenses of ¥65 billion please? Thanks.
[Foreign Language] (21:22-22:01)
[Foreign Language] (22:06-22:28)
First of all with respect to the equity method earnings, your point is quite correct. And as I
mentioned in my response to the earlier question and here I maybe repeating, but in the first
quarter we a saw substantial decrease in earnings accounted for under equity method for China.
However, for the full-year basis, we are planning not to see such a substantial deterioration.
[Foreign Language] (22:57-23:10)
Moving on to your second question, which was on the revised forecast for this year, which
indicated one of negative factors to be increasing expenses by ¥65 billion, and you asked about
the details of that.
[Foreign Language] (23:29-24:16)
And this increase in expenses includes, first of all, approximately ¥10 billion increase in labor
related expenses, and we also estimate the general increase in expenses in the order of ¥45
billion. Those are the current estimations. And of that expenses in general, SG&A totals around
¥25 billion, and the rest is accounted for by expected increase in quality and other related costs
as of today. And about the remaining ¥10 billion, during the first quarter relating to swap-related
gains and losses, actual net loss was reported and therefore reflecting that compared with the
initial forecast of the year, we incorporated that ¥10 billion deterioration in this swap-related gains
and losses.
Is that ¥10 billion for labor in Japan, please?
Could you repeat the question please?
Is the ¥10 billion increase for labor for labor in Japan, please?
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [Foreign Language] (25:29)[Foreign Language] (25:30-25:41)
It is an expected increase here in Japan and the remaining half increase in subsidiaries.
Thank you.
Thank you. Next please.
Hello. I noticed in, within your new production schedule, if we look simply at the Toyota
production, you're raising Japanese production by 80,000 units and reducing overseas
production by 80,000 units. I wonder if you could just talk us through this decision and whether
this was the response to the weaker yen or why you've chosen to make that adjustment?
[Foreign Language] (26:28-26:44)
[Foreign Language] (26:45-27:07)
Thank you for your question. On the calendar year basis, the global production volume remains
unchanged at 9.01 million units. However, there has been some significant changes in what are
included in that number. And as you correctly pointed out, we revised upward the domestic
production here in Japan by 80,000 units and we revised downward the overseas production by
the same magnitude of 80,000 units.
[Foreign Language] (27:41-28:54)
There are two major reasons behind our decision to increase domestic production. First of all,
here in Japan, the markets excluding mini vehicles remain very strong at this moment. And on top
of that, our newly introduced models do enjoy very strong demand, and therefore, we have
decided to increase domestic sales volume to respond to that. So, this is a major reason. We
expect increase in domestic sales volume and in response to that, we have decided to increase
domestic production volume.
Secondly, this is not related specifically to exchange rates trends, but in North American markets,
some of the highly selling vehicles such as SUVs remain very strong in the market demand
specifically including RAV4s, 4Runners among others. And those models that are selling
extremely well in North America are also produced here in Japan. And because of that, we have
decided to increase production here in Japan. At the same time importantly, reflecting
deterioration in economic conditions and market in generally in Asian countries. The sales
volumes are not increasing in those markets rather remaining rather stagnant and therefore, we
have decided to revise downward the overseas production volume by 80,000 units.
Thank you. In addition, could you just give us a bit more detail on slide 18, the ¥45 billion in other
marketing activities, sorry, the increase in those costs. Wonder if you could just perhaps give us a
bit more breakdown in particular how much is coming from increased sales support in places like
Russia and China?
[Foreign Language] (30:48-31:02)
[Foreign Language] (31:05-31:37)
As you pointed out, the market environment and competitive landscape in China and Russia are
getting tougher and tougher. And that led us to assume future increase in sales expenses as well
as the potential reduction in selling prices. And incorporating those factors this time in our
outlook, we included expectation of total of ¥45 billion in reduced earnings from those areas.Can I just to clarify, so all of that ¥45 billion comes from Russia and China?
[Foreign Language] (32:15)
[Foreign Language] (32:18-32:26)
Basically, the major risk factors we incorporated were China and Russia.
Okay.
Thank you. Next, please.
Thank you for taking my question. The question is if you expect China to recover for the full year,
and income from associates is up in Japan about 17%. Do you expect that associates income in
Japan to decrease going forward for the rest of the year? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (33:02-33:11)
[Foreign Language] (33:17-33:36)
Could you elaborate on your question further? You cited 17% expected reduction in production
here in Japan. From which factor have you deducted that there is going to be 17% reduction in
production in Japan?
Sorry. Let me rephrase my question. In your focus on slide 17, you have equity in earnings of
affiliates flat for the year. And your response to previous question was that you expect China
income to recover. On slide 14, the income from affiliates in Japan is up 17% for the first quarter.
Do you expect that income to increase if you expect China to decrease – sorry, to increase?
[Foreign Language] (34:30-34:55)
[Foreign Language] (34:59-35:18)
Page 17 that you referred to earlier compares the previous forecast against the current forecast
and this page indicates that there is no change to the equity method investment gains, and
losses that's standing at ¥330 billion.
[Foreign Language] (35:40-36:01)
If we refer to the difference between year-on-year comparison and the forecast made currently
for the full year basis, the current outlook for the full year is ¥330 billion, whereas the actual
earnings accounted for by equity method last year was at ¥308.5 billion, that indicates that on a
year-on-year basis, this year we're expecting ¥21.5 billion increase in equity earnings.
[Foreign Language] (36:38-37:10)
As we have confirmed on page 14, we are expecting equity method affiliates here in Japan to
show increased earnings. On the full year basis, we earlier talked about increase, expected
increase by ¥21.5 billion. And structurally speaking, most of that is to be earned by affiliated
companies here in Japan that are accounted for under equity method. As for equity method
affiliated China, although the deterioration will not be as significant as we have actually seen,
during the first quarter, but we are expecting decrease in our equity earnings from China, on the
full-year basis as well.And my second question is about group net cash that you disclosed on these calls. Back in
December 2014, that figure was ¥6.7 trillion; can you give us an update on that figure?
[Foreign Language] (38:20-38:28)
[Foreign Language] (38:30-38:44)
Let me explain to you the net cash status of the automotive business. As of the end of March
2015, the net cash position of our automotive business stood at ¥7.280 trillion.
[Foreign Language] (39:01-39:29)
Thereafter, during the three months of the first quarter, there have been some new
developments in net cash position reflecting increase in net income, while we did pay cash
dividends, but the net cash increased by slightly shy of ¥190 billion. And, therefore, as of the end
of June, our net cash position stood at ¥7,467.5 billion.
Thank you.
Thank you. Next please.
Yes, thank you very much. My first question is in the first quarter, you gave the breakdown of the
positive and negative factors including cost cuts of positive ¥60 billion. I wonder if you could give
us a breakdown of this item first? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (40:28-40:42)
[Foreign Language] (40:43-40:53)
A rough breakdown includes ¥50 billion stemming from activities relating to design and ¥10 billion
coming from plant logistics.
So, raw materials were a neutral factor in the quarter?
[Foreign Language] (41:17)
[Foreign Language] (41:18-41:27)
During the first quarter, the raw materials contributed positive ¥10 billion.
Okay. Thank you. And my second question is on your free cash flow. I was looking at your cash
flow statement for the first quarter, and I believe I see a cash flow from operations of all
businesses positive ¥1.123 trillion, and capital spending, I'm not sure whether this captures all
capital spending. I think it's just for the automotive division of 300 – wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I just
– I'm just – ¥379 billion. So, it seems as if you had quite a bit of positive operating free cash flow in
the first quarter. I wonder if you could confirm what the operating free cash flow was in the first
quarter and what your outlook is for the full year? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (42:39-43:10)
[Foreign Language] (43:13-43:44)
Let me describe the development or changes in cash positions in automotive business. The cash
was generated in the order of ¥500 billion free cash flow, and the breakdown of that is from netincome plus ¥610 billion, and depreciation slightly shy of ¥200 billion, and spending on CapEx
¥300 billion. So netting them out, there has been increase in free cash flow of ¥510 billion.
[Foreign Language] (44:24-44:52)
You also asked about the outlook for the full year, but there are significant uncertainties including
business activities or foreign exchange rate development or fluctuations. And therefore, I hope
you would understand for us wanting to refrain from stating any specific numbers at this juncture.
But assuming the outlook for earnings, we are expecting increase in cash on hand going forward.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Next, please.
Good evening. Thank you very much for the call. Two questions: first of all, a clarification. You
mentioned earlier that the breakdown of other marketing activities on page 18 included rising
marketing expenses in China and Russia. Could you just explain the China portion? As I
understand, I mean, China is accounted through the equity method, so that shouldn't have a
direct impact on operating profits. So, is this Lexus or – if you could explain that, I'd appreciate it?
Second question is, with regard to the Hilux, Fortuner, the IMV rollout, could you give us a bit
more detail on when new products are expected in the markets and sales volume thus far and
whether or not the IMV sales are on target or getting a bit behind target? Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (46:27-47:14)
[Foreign Language] (47:16-47:36)
Thank you for your question. With respect to your question, you asked whether this increase in
marketing expenses is related to Lexus, the negative impact stemming from that, and your point
is quite right. Centering around those models exported from Japan, including Lexus, we have
been decreasing – we are expecting some decrease in selling prices or increase in marketing
expenses.
[Foreign Language] (48:04-48:29)
About your second question, the impact of selling down of the Hilux, at this time too, we have not
been able to thoroughly analyze the impact to the details. And in terms of the sales situation of
new models, since its launch the sales volume exceeded our regional expectation and the ramp
up is going on very smoothly.
Hey could you give us an idea of the scheduled roll out for these products in other markets
beyond Thailand please?
[Foreign Language] (49:05-49:08)
[Foreign Language] (49:12-49:20)
I would like to refrain from making comments because this is – this specific matter is relating to
product plans and I hope you would understand the situation.
Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate the answers.
A - Unverified ParticipantIt seems there are no more questions. So, this concludes today's conference call now. If you
require further information, please contact our IR representative in New York or London. Thank
you very much for joining us today. Good bye.