Q1 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's Q1 Results Analyst
Conference Call. Before I hand over the call to `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the
Safe Harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. By their very nature,
forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty, and results may differ materially from
those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The company undertakes no
obligation to update forward-looking statements.
There'll be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentation. We will no hand you over
to AstraZeneca when the call is about to start.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, everyone. This is `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to the Q1 2015 results
conference call for investors and analysts. Our slides are posted online for you to follow via
telephone or webcast. I'm joined today by `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, our CFO; `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS) & Corporate, our EVP for Global
Product and Portfolio Strategy & Corporate Affairs; and `Briggs Morrison, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical, our CMO and EVP for
Global Medicines Development. It's great to have so many of you on the phone and online today
and we look forward to taking you through our presentation.
So if I move to slide three, the plan today is for me to introduce then hand over to Luke for our
products and growth platforms, and then to Marc for the financials and the guidance. Briggs will
end with the pipeline update before we welcome all your questions.We plan to close the call in one hour as we also host our Annual General Meeting here in London
today.
Moving to slide four. Q1 2015 was a good start to the year and supports our goal for the year. We
saw continued strong pipeline news flow and now we have 13 potential new medicines that are
either in Phase III or under registration. I'm delighted that we announced this morning a strategic
collaboration with Celgene to develop MEDI4736 in hematology. Q1 was the fifth consecutive
quarter of top line growth. Our total revenue grew 1% and we saw the growth platforms add 13%
in growth. They now account for 56% of total revenue.
The launches of Lynparza and Movantik are progressing well. With Lynparza, our first new cancer
medicine in many years, we are making a very important difference to the lives of many women
with ovarian cancer. We've also made substantial progress with externalization, and we are on
track to deliver on goals and achieve the guidance for the year. And I also would like to say, even
though these are early days, the launch of Movantik is progressing very well.
If I move to slide five, we continue our progress with our pipeline. In addition to the highlights that
I mentioned on returning to growth, we saw many from the pipeline. First of all, we submitted
lesinurad to the FDA and our submission was accepted. We had positive top line results from our
Phase III study with PT003, our Pearl LABA/LAMA combination.
We had positive PEGASUS Phase III results for Brilinta and we submitted with the U.S. and the
European authorities. Selumetinib received Orphan-Drug designation by the FDA and also,
tremelimumab received it for mesothelioma. We had Fast-Track designation by the FDA for
MEDI4736 and for MEDI8897. So a very rich quarter from a pipeline newsflow.
The pipeline is strong and we are well on track to deliver the promised regulatory submissions in
2015. We have seven this year, five next year, and we are well on track to deliver the seven or
eight potential submissions for 2015 and 2016. And this will lead to further business growth in the
future.
If I move to slide six, the growth platforms experienced a total growth of 13% collectively. And you
can see here very nice results for Brilinta that grew 45%; our Diabetes franchise grew 47%;
Respiratory by 7%; the emerging market, 18%; Japan experienced a slight decline in the quarter,
still due to price effects but also a very strong quarter for some products like , in particular,
Symbicort. But moving forward, we expect that Q1 was the last quarter with a negative growth.
Core EPS at $1.08 is very much supporting our guidance for the year from a core EPS viewpoint.
If I move to slide seven, I'd like to spend a little bit of time talking about externalization and
collaboration. We announced earlier in the quarter a collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo to
commercialize Movantik in the United States. It's a very important collaboration. Daiichi Sankyo will
start promoting Movantik in the United States next month – early next month. And we have great
hope for Movantik in the U.S. marketplace.
And this morning, we announced a very important strategic collaboration with Celgene for
MEDI4736 in hematology. Celgene is a really premier hematology company. And together with
them, we will jointly develop MEDI4736 for use in blood cancers, only sold and in combination
with existing medicines and pipeline molecules.
We're pleased to be working with Celgene and we believe that we can have a great
collaboration in hematology. They have many years of experience in this field in the history of
innovation in multiple myeloma and other blood cancers. Our initial focus will be MEDI4736 in
lymphoma and multiple myeloma. But over time, this collaboration could be expanded. Later inthe presentation, we have Marc who will cover the deals in more details and what impacts they
have from a financial point of view.
With that in hand – with that in mind, so I will hand over to Luke for comments on products and
growth platforms. Luke, over to you.
`Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS) & Corporate `
Thanks, Pascal. Overall, the growth platforms had consistent and substantial growth for the
quarter, and now represent 56% of total revenue. If you look at each of these growth platforms,
starting with Brilinta on the next slide. Global sales were $131 million, up 45%, with initial signs of
the positive results for PEGASUS are reinforcing confidence in the ACS indication, and the PLATO
data set particularly in the U.S. There was some impact of the branded pharma fee in the U.S.,
which is around 3% with Brilinta.
Regulatory submissions on the back of the PEGASUS study are also filed in March in the U.S. and
EU. The U.S. continued to remain strong and consistent growth during the quarter, delivering 64%.
Europe was up 21%, and Emerging Markets went from $13 million to $23 million for the quarter,
driven largely by China and Russia.
We look at NBRx in the U.S., continues a continuing upward trend, sustained by the strong
performance, post-ACC. Brilinta recently also received FDA approval to be crushed and
administered in water with new label update, further differentiated from other members of the
class.
In Europe, our ACS discharge share has continued to grow and our focus is now on achieving
market leader status in all the remaining countries, and also supporting patients who remain on
treatment for 12 months in advance to label extension.
For Diabetes, again, a promising performance, strong overall, driven by all products and
geographies at the global level. Globally, Onglyza sales are up 19%, driven by emerging markets
and Europe, where it continues to outgrow the market in volume. In the U.S., they did remain
under pressure with Onglyza declining 8% due to competition and the fact that we are very
focused on Farxiga and Bydureon at this point in time. And time is needed to see if there's any
impact from the outcome.
In terms of Farxiga, continues to grow strongly as the class expands, with sales split evenly
between the U.S. and the rest of world for $76 million. U.S. total Rx share for the Farxiga family
remained steady at around 27%, and we did take a step down in share after formulary changes in
January, which we'd signaled to you in the past. And there are some pressure from the new
launches, however, we're confident that we can address this, and our aim is to maintain the
volume in preparation for the launch of saxa/dapa. In the EU, it remains the leading SGLT-2, with
close to 90% class share, and this continues to grow. We also have a number of markets
launching throughout 2015.
For Bydureon, the good news continues with the Pen. In the U.S., all volume and share metrics are
up since the launch of the Pen, with increase in prescribing amongst existing writers, but we also
have a number of new trialers. And interestingly, the trend continues with 79% of patients being
initiated on the Pen, being new to the brand. Globally, Bydureon volume continues to grow and
outplace the class, 28% versus 11% globally. And ex-U.S. launches have now started in quarter one
and quarter two.For Respiratory, again, it's very consistent, a solid quarter with no change to the 2015 outlook that
we communicated to you at the 2014 Q4 earnings call. For Symbicort, U.S. was at 1% at constant
rates, with volume growth offset by some price pressure despite the loss of Caremark, Symbicort
has gained around 2%; 1.9% NBRx; around 0.8% TRx shares in the first two months.
In Europe, we were also able to defend share and actually grow volume by around 1% but
pressure on price remained, but the resilience of this portfolio was clear with this performance.
Symbicort and Pulmicort continued to grow in emerging markets, driven by China, the EU launch
rollout is on track and we'll give you more information in quarter two.
Overall, if we look at the patterns in emerging markets, we can see the strong performance of
Pulmicort but there's some clear Epi trends there, both in asthma and COPD, with many of these
patients, even if they're treated are treated in a short setting rather than in a chronic
maintenance setting. And we're confident that our combination of in-market capability, attractive
devices, and established brands as well as our broad pipeline places us in a sound position to
address high unmet need.
For emerging markets themselves, if we look at it at the macro level, strong broad based growth
in emerging markets, both in terms of geography and the products. You can see on the right
hand side of the chart, Respiratory, 35%; Diabetes, 115%; and Oncology, 16%. We continue to
outgrow the market in China as measured by IMS. There was some volatility in the industry in
China because of the timing of Chinese New Year but again, we expect the underlying demand
to land at around 18%.
For Japan, Q1 sales declined by 2%, impacted by the very strong sales in quarter one 2014. And
this was driven by price changes that impacted a number of products as well as the introduction
of the consumption tax. Symbicort was an example of that. Symbicort was exempt from the price
cut but saw strong demand from wholesalers before the introduction of the sales tax in 2014. The
lifting of the [rio tanki] for two competitors had some initial impact but are now, as you can see on
the right-hand side, our shares stabilized.
Nexium grew strongly in Q1 despite the launch of a new competitor. Revenue was up $89 million
and growth 23%. Market share improved in February and March on the back of strong market
growth for the segment. And Crestor continues to do well. We expect stronger performance in
quarter two without these factors.
We also had some exciting launches. Movantik, again we are now booking early sales. It launched
the 1st of this month with initial reports indicating a positive reception with physicians and
increased times with the rep. Previously announced, the co-commercialization was expected to
improve this uptake in our commercial presence. Also our ex-U.S. launches are early days but very
much on track.
For Lynparza, we have a good trajectory in the U.S. and the leading indicators such as BRCA
testing is up 60% at Myriad. Also the prescribers are largely in the community setting, with 88% of
patients having started treatments still on medicine, but again, data on the duration is not
available yet, and we'll provide more color on this at ASCO.
No real access hurdles at this point. In terms of BRCA testing rates outside the U.S., we've seen a
doubling in the last three months, post approval, and brand awareness is very high, which is a
positive signal as we launch the product in the second half. Broadly speaking, this is an important
first step as we build our oncology capabilities. Oncology represent 12% of our sales overall. But
again, we're building critical mass in the U.S. in preparation for the pipeline. And we'll provideI'll now hand over.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Luke, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes talking to you
through the financial headlines for the quarter. And then I'll go to the outlook for the year.
Looking first at quarter one, I want to highlight four headlines. Our performance supports our full
year guidance, which I will reiterate in more detail. Second, the externalization is now an important
business, as usual, for us. We assume a certain level of externalization within the guidance we
provide. Our commitment to R&D and our science-based pipeline remains unchanged. Pascal has
already talked to you about the good progress we are making, so we need to continue to
support the accelerating pipeline.
And finally, core SG&A investment cost will be a primary area of focus throughout the remainder
of the year as we implement a number of initiatives designed to reduce this cost from the highs
of 2014.
Turning to the quarter one P&L, total revenue grew by 1%. As you may remember, we now include
externalization revenue with product sales to form the total revenue. The quarter one 2014
performance on the slide reflect this change.
Product sales declined by 3%, a result of the U.S. market entry of the Nexium generic product
from mid-February as well as an adverse impact from the change in accounting for the U.S.
Branded Pharmaceutical Fee. Our cost of sales declined by 8%, reflecting both an element of
product mix as well as productivity savings in manufacturing. This decrease drove a 2 percentage
point increase in our gross margin on product sales to 83.4%.
Core R&D investment costs were up 24%, a result of the relatively low base in the first quarter of
last year, as well as the acceleration in the pipeline and additional cost via acquisition in 2014. I do
anticipate a smaller growth rate in R&D investment over the full year than the 24% seen here.
Core SG&A investment costs up were 10% in the quarter, partly reflecting the comparison.
Investment were made to support recent brand launches, including Farxiga and Lynparza, as well
as pre- and post-launch activities for Movantik. Investment was also maintained in the pre-launch
activities for the late-stage pipeline, including the Oncology portfolio. The core tax rate remain
unchanged versus last year. And finally, core EPS was $1.08, down 3%.
Taking a closer look at core SG&A costs. You can see here the reduction in the quarter versus
quarter four last year, where at that time core SG&A costs had peaked. The underlying year-on-
year increase at CER was 10% in quarter one and 2% at actual rates. As I said earlier, core SG&A
will be a primary area of focus throughout the remainder of the year as we reduce costs from the
high of 2014, both at the dollar level and as a percentage of total revenues.
To accomplish this, we will look at a number of initiatives. Improving our sales and marketing
effectiveness by leveraging more marketing programs globally, rather than on a country-by-
country basis. Secondly, we are going to deliver savings across a number of areas, including
procurement, IT and our support functions. And the third initiative will involve further optimizing
our geographic footprints. As you can see from the chart, we'll be facing some easier core SG&A
comparison as we move through the rest of the year. We are committed to delivering these cost
programs.
Moving now to guidance. As I mentioned earlier, our full year guidance, which is at constantdecline by mid single-digit percent. Consistent with our business model, we will continue to
pursue externalization opportunities on collaboration whilst licensing select product and
technologies.
Looking at core EPS, we expect it to increase by low single-digit percent this year.
On top of our business as usual execution, there are two further contributors to how we have
constructed our guidance. Firstly, the core SG&A savings that will decline by value and percentage
over the full year. And secondly, the externalization opportunities I talked about earlier that
continue to accelerate.
What we haven't disclosed is what we think the size and proportion of core SG&A savings and
externalization revenue will be, but I want to be clear that both will be significant this year. Finally,
I'd like to give you a little more detail on the two transaction Pascal talked about a moment ago.
This transaction were in line with our strategy of delivering value both through own development
and commercial capabilities, as well as through external collaboration.
The co-commercialization agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for Movantik in the U.S. last month
meant we recognized a $200 million upfront payment to externalization revenue in quarter one,
whilst allowing us to maintain manufacturing and a revenue recognition of product sales. With our
collaborator, we'll grow this important new medicine and at the same time, retain our significant
interest in the long-term success of Movantik in what is our largest market.
The second transaction announced this morning is a strategic hematology collaboration with
Celgene to develop and commercialize MEDI4736 in the treatment of blood cancers. Under the
terms of this agreement, we will receive $450 million upfront as externalization revenue related
to MEDI4736. Also included in the deal, Celgene will cover development costs in 2015 and 2016,
and after that, 75%. We will manufacture and recognize product sales once commercialized. We
will also pay royalty to Celgene.
Over time, the collaboration could expand to include other assets. As I said earlier, we will
continue to pursue externalization opportunities where it make sense for the long-term growth of
our business. Thank you for listening and I will now hand over to Briggs.
`Briggs Morrison, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Thanks very much, Mark. So I'm pleased to report on our pipeline progress over the first quarter
and to provide you some updated guidance on items to track as the year unfolds. We can go
forward to slide 28, please.
So I'd first like to highlight two important data readouts that occurred in the first quarter, the
Phase III PEGASUS trial read out positive and was both presented at the ACC and published in the
New England Journal. And in addition, our LAMA/LABA program that came to us through the Pearl
acquisition also read out positive. And we're now working on summarizing this work in regulatory
dossiers to be submitted later this year.
We also have some important regulatory updates in the quarter. The U.S. submission for lesinurad
for the treatment of gout was accepted, and our team is actively working with both FDA and EMH
to progress towards regulatory approval. The PEGASUS results were filed, both in the U.S. and
Europe in what I believe is actually record time. You'll recall the results were announced in
January, we've now filed in both U.S. and Europe.
Quite importantly, we've had a successful Advisory Committee Meeting regarding the SAVORpatients with Type-2 diabetes has an acceptable cardiovascular risk profile, while also voting that
the FDA should supplement the product's labeling to add the new safety information that we
derived from SAVOR.
We received Orphan designation for both tremelimumab and selumetinib and Fast-Track
designation for MEDI4736 in the third-line population. I'd like to emphasize that we believe this
Fast-Track designation indicates continued FDA interest in this specific population of patients, and
I'll say more about that later.
We've also received Fast-Track designation for MEDI8897, our high potency, extended half-life
engineered anti-RSV monoclonal antibody for the prevention of lower respiratory tract illness
caused by RSV in infants and young children.
We go on to the next slide, slide 29. Those of you who attended our Investors Day in November
of last year will recall that we discussed two areas of focus in R&D over the 2015-2016 time
period. The first was to achieve 14 to 16 NME submissions and 8 to 10 approvals, half of them
from NMEs and half from line extensions, and as Pascal mentioned in his opening remarks, we
believe that we're still on track for that.
But the second area of focus was to achieve 12 to 16 high-quality Phase II starts. And that is why
on the left panel here, I'm emphasizing the pre-clinical and clinical data that was presented at
AACR last week. Those of you who attended will have seen data presented on a number of
important targets in oncology, including data with olaparib in prostate cancer, pre-clinical data with
our selective estrogen receptor down regulator, AZD9496 in ER+ breast cancer, which is now in
Phase I clinical trials.
Clinical data with our dual TORC inhibitor, AZD2014, both in combination with Faslodex in ER+
breast cancer, and in combination with platinum in ovarian and squamous cell lung cancer. You will
have also seen elegant science mapping the molecular basis for the resistance to AZD9291 in
EGFR mutant non-small cell lung cancer, and some pre-clinical data on combinations of EGFR
inhibitors with our c-Met inhibitor, selumetinib. These and other programs enhance our
confidence in achieving our goal of the 12 to 16 high-quality Phase II starts over the next two years.
On the right panel of this slide, I show the updated progression-free survival curve from our
AURA study of AZD9291 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer who have relapsed after
treatment with the first generation EGFR inhibitor and have the T790M mutation. This data was
presented at the recent European Lung Cancer Conference, and provides additional confidence
in the clinical profile of this exciting compound, which we remain on track to file in the second
quarter of this year.
On the next slide, slide 29 (sic) [30], I show a similar slide to one that I showed you at our year-
end results meeting that we held in January. On the left is a reminder of some of the highlights of
things we will present at ASCO, which of course a key highlight being our Phase Ib trial of the
combination of MEDI4736 plus treme. That trial, of course, primarily designed to identify a dosing
schedule and to characterize the safety of the combination, but there is also preliminary efficacy
data from that trial and we'll be sharing that with you at ASCO.
We'd also like to make you aware of an Investor science event we will hold on June 1. We will give
a much more detailed update on our oncology efforts. I should note that we have 61 abstracts
accepted for presentation, of which six on those are all presentations.
On the right side of the slide are some data highlights that I suggest that you watch out for as the
year progresses, and I think I've just covered the first item on the list that I mentioned theAZD2014 data which was presented at the AACR.
The next slide is the late stage pipeline key news flow through 2015. I introduced this slide to you
at the Investors Day presentation in November as a means of highlighting key news flow over the
year. I'll first note that there are three new entries on this table compared to when I first showed
this to you in November. That is the selumetinib entry, the treme entry for mesothelioma, and the
CAZ AVI regulatory submission in the EU for serious bacterial infection.
As far as new progress along this chart, the new green checkmarks, I've noted the PT003
positive Phase III data readouts, the lesinurad submission and the PEGASUS Phase III result and
regulatory submission. Pascal has touched on the Movantik launch. And again, in today's press
release, we've communicated that anifrolumab is the agent we will be taking into Phase III for
lupus. The Phase II data will be presented at an upcoming scientific meeting.
In terms of MEDI4736, I would just like to repeat what we've said a number of times regarding
our approach. Our non-small cell lung cancer program addresses multiple clinical presentations.
We're the only company with an adjuvant trial ongoing and the only company with a registration
trial in patients with locally advanced, unresectable disease, both represent significant segments
of patients and we have the potential to be first in both.
In terms of metastatic disease, the so-called Stage IIIB/IV disease, ATLANTIC is a fast-to-market
strategy targeting third line patients, patients who have failed two prior therapies. This is the
indication for which we achieved Fast-Track designation from the FDA. And as I said, we think this
signals their continued interest in this opportunity.
I've indicated that this opportunity depends on two things. Strong data from the trial itself, and
the lack of full approval in PD-L1 positive patients from any of our competitors. We don't yet have
the data from ATLANTIC, so we can't comment on the actual data, although we are optimistic
based upon our earlier trials. However, I will also add that we have not yet seen the impending full
approval of any agents in PD-L1 positive patients. And therefore as of today, we believe this
opportunity is indeed viable and we are focused on getting the data and potentially preparing a
submission as quickly as possible.
I do hope to be able to show you a green checkmark on that entry later this year. I also want to
comment on the MEDI/treme combo. What I have in this table is, as discussed earlier, the Phase I
presentation at ASCO. As I indicated earlier, we have a dosage schedule and we are initiating
trials both in non-small cell lung cancer and in squamous cell head and neck cancer. And we will
say much more about this strategy at our ASCO meeting.
So with that, I'll turn things back to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Briggs. Great summary of our pipeline progress. On the slide 33, please. Thank you.
Before we end the presentation, I just want to leave you with these highlights from the first
quarter. I guess the key message is we're very much on track implementing our plans and we are
very excited with this collaboration with Celgene. I think it will really open hematology as a field
for MEDI4736 and place us in a very, very strong position from a competitive viewpoint as we
develop our IO platform in this field and we look forward to working with our colleagues at
Celgene.
With this, I hand back to the operator and we can open for questions.Operator
Your first question comes from `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Sachin, over to you. Go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. A few questions, please, if I could. Firstly, for Briggs on the CTLA-4/PD-1 combo in lung. That
combo Phase III study you referenced imminently is in PD-L1 negative and in a later line at
patients. I wondered what you needed to see in terms of data or visibility you need from
regulators to move that into PD-L1 positive or earlier lines of therapy, just noting that Roche's
aggressive first line program and Bristol's combo program is also in Phase I.
Second question for Luke on Symbicort. U.S. sales down 1%, scripts up 18%. Maybe you could just
rationalize the difference between price and the co-pay assistance program you referenced, and
how sustainable that co-pay assistance is.
And lastly, questions for Marc. Just firstly, any specific drivers of a very strong first quarter gross
margin and how sustainable is that? And then finally, just a clarification on the unchanged top line
guidance. When you guided the full year result, it was for sales mid single-digit decline. The
guidance is now revenues mid single-digit decline, however, revenues includes externalization
revenues and the guidance is unchanged. So just wondering whether there's been any underlying
downgrade of product sales in that. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sachin. So let's start with the first question, treme/PD-L1 in PD-L1-positive patients.
Briggs, do you want to address this one?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Sure. Thanks. So first, I'd say that the trials that we've announced so far, ARCTIC, we have the
combination only in the PD-L1 negative and in the PD-L1 positive, it's simply monotherapy. And
that is really to be the formal contribution of components trial that show that the combination
exceeds individual MEDI4736 and treme.
In third line patients, we believe that's a rapid way for us to demonstrate the contribution of
components. But we do have plans and again, we'll talk about this at ASCO to move that
combination into earlier lines of non-small cell lung cancer, and of course, we also have the
program in head and neck cancer, which we'll talk more about.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Briggs. I should have also introduced `Mondher Mahjoubi, SVP-Global Product Strategy who is here with us today in
case you have more questions on oncology, as I imagine, you will have. Mondher is the head of
our Oncology franchise as you probably remember.
Symbicort, Luke, do you want to cover this question?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS) & Corporate `Yeah. So, Sachin, I mean, exactly as you said, pricing and volume pretty much balanced each other
out. In terms of the $25 Guarantee coupon strategy, I mean, our focus really is to maintain share
in Caremark and also enable TRx growth in NDC locked plans. And if we can do that and prevent
spillover, then we can maintain our share and have a discussion on another day. So, essentially,
that's the background to that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay, Marc, the...
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So, two questions. Thank you for these questions. On the gross margin, you have noted the
improvement of productivity, and also the impact of a product mix on the first quarter. We expect
that for the remainder of the year, we should be in a similar territory.
To address your second question on the guidance product sales versus total revenues, we
provided a confirmation of our guidance last month. And we then explained to you that there
would be no impact on the guidance for the accounting change. Well, basically, we do not
anticipate a downgrade of our product sales for the year.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
We will not downgrade our guidance for the product sales for the year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The impact on externalization revenue on the total sales, Sachin, is not to an effect of really
substantially changing the guidance which we don't specify to the decimal point if you remember,
it's a range. So, with the externalization revenue, we're still in the same range. We could expect
that we would be in the better place of the range but still in the same range. Shall we move to
Alexandra Hauber? Alexandra, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) `
Hello. Good afternoon. Just a couple questions, especially on the Celgene deal. Just to clarify
that this is focused exclusively on PD-L1 and doesn't cover your work you do in tremelimumab,
and if it doesn't, whether that potentially expands later on.
And the second question is for Briggs, on slide 30 that you highlighted on the right, the data we
should be watching. I think I understand why we should watch some of those. For instance, I think
you have said before that, savolitinib may be able to – may be fileable based on that Phase II
data. But could you just go through the individual base points that says where there is a potential
fast-to-market access strategy based on that data?
And just a quick follow-up on Symbicort. So the 19%, 20% difference between prescription and
value. Is that a fact that we can use going forward, or is that in the first quarter?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Thank you, Alexandra. The line is really not very good. Personally, I'm not sure I understood all
your questions, so maybe we can start with the question for Briggs. Hopefully, Briggs understood
it. Briggs, do you want to go ahead?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Yes. I think, Alexandra, your question was on slide 30. The data highlights to watch as the year
progresses, some of those are Phase IIs. And I think your question was, were any of those
potentially fast-to-market opportunities.
So, obviously, the tremelimumab mesothelioma trial, although called Phase II is a randomized trial
that could lead to a regulatory submission early next year. The early data that you may have seen
with selumetinib in papillary renal cell carcinoma could also have represented a fast-to-market
strategy. Some of the combinations, the Phase II work with AZD2014, because they're in
combination, it takes a little more work to demonstrate both components.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Briggs. And the first question, hopefully I got it actually, Alexandra. This alliance with
Celgene, PD-L1, is in hematology, and today it is focused on PD-L1. It could be expanded
potentially, but the agreement we announced is, at this stage, focused on PD-L1 in hematology
only.
And essentially, we see this as really a transformative alliance for us in hematology where we
don't really have the capabilities yet. We have strong capabilities that we've been building in solid
tumors but hematology is very specific. And we believe that together with Celgene, we can do a
lot better than we would have on our own.
So hopefully, this was really your questions. And if you want more details, then we can ask
Mondher in a minute. And as far as Symbicort, let me just add that – maybe, Luke, if you want to
add more. But the sort of, how to call it, rebate if you want is a mixture of rebate and also the
cost of those co-pays assistance.
Now, the co-pay assistance is not necessarily something that will last forever. It's a strategy we're
implementing. We could keep it or we could remove it depending on access, depending on many
factors. And so it's very – at this stage, I wouldn't want to comment too much in terms of how this
will evolve over time.
Mondher, do you want to add anything on the product?
A - `Mondher Mahjoubi, SVP-Global Product Strategy `
Yeah. Very quickly to say that, first of all, we have already ongoing 31 clinical trial in immuno-
oncology testing PD-L1 either on monotherapy or combination in a variety of tumor type, almost
20 tumor types. So, the addition of hematology will either – will further expand our footprint in
immuno-oncology in both solid and liquid tumor.
And the second piece is that, yes, PD-L1 MEDI4736 is the first step in this collaboration. But as you
know, Alexandra, the multiple hallmark of the IO cycle that are essential in the hidden disease, so
of course it will include other – both small molecule and also biologics that we are looking forward
to partner with Celgene.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Thank you, Mondher. Tim Anderson of Bernstein. Tim, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. I have a high-level question that you may not like very much, but it relates to the
earnings targets that the board has set for the company and how that may be impacting strategy.
So as you've disclosed before, you essentially have to hit around $420 million in earnings to get
paid. But as we saw last quarter, we saw this quarter, that's not exactly where the earnings
numbers naturally want to fall.
Revenue seem to be declining a little bit faster and the spending is ramping up quicker. So, to
offset that in certain instances, you're selling off assets to book asset sales and the whole thing is
a bit artificial. But beyond the pure financial mechanics of this, the bigger risk I wonder about is
whether you could end up regretting selling off some of the assets you have over the long run by
giving too many pieces away or entering into too many collaborations, which can start to get
messy.
Usually, pharma companies are asset gatherers, not asset distributors, but I know you've certainly
been bringing in assets as well. So, I'm wondering if you can just kind of address these points and
whether it's really the right strategy to have those earnings targets and whether that's artificially
dictating how you approach the business.
And then another question on the ATLANTIC trial. You talked about the progress of competitors
being a gating factor, whether you could file early on that. Because your compound is a PD-L1
that's mechanistically slightly different than Merck and Bristol's. So, isn't the only relevant
competitor here, Roche, with their PD-L1, and whether they file early in that biomarker positive
population.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. So, thanks so much, Tim. I'll ask Briggs in a second to answer your ATLANTIC question. And
we address the first one. Actually, it's not I don't like, actually, I like the question because it
enables me to address really a fundamental point, which is this collaboration. It's really interesting
that some people would think with selling part of our assets. I mean, I think, what we're trying to
pursue really is a strategy where we maximize the potential of each of our assets. And what that
means – and we turn the science, the great science and the great productivity we have in our
biotech units into reality for patients and for our shareholders. And so the question is each time,
what's the best way to do that?
And we've decided to focus on oncology, cardiovascular, diabetes, respiratory medicine, and for
the rest, we can't do everything. It's not only a question of money and profit, it's also a question
of focus of our organization and ourselves as a management team. And so in the other therapy
areas as we've said before, we look for partnerships, we've done that with our BACE inhibitor
and we'll do other things like this.
And when it comes to oncology, of course, I can understand that some people would wonder,
why would you partner something which is in your core oncology business. And fundamentally, I
think it's really important to understand that hematology is different. I mean, I've been involved in
hematology and solid tumor myself at my previous companies, so I think I sort of understand the
difference between the two. And I don't think you sort of wake up one morning as a hematology
company. We have a history, AstraZeneca has a history of strength in oncology and solid tumors.Now, over time, we are starting to lose these capabilities because we didn't have much product.
In the last two years, we've rebuilt those capabilities, but it's not that easy. It takes a bit of time.
And in hematology, we concluded that we are better off partnering with a strong company that
will enable us to turn this PD-L1 opportunity into really a big opportunity. So, what we're doing
here is partnering something that, in the end, in our hands probably would have had less value
than if we do it together with a top company.
So, I would potentially understand the challenge if we had partnered with a sort of a company
that has no experience in hematology, but when you partner with a company like Celgene, what it
does is hopefully send a signal that we have a great product, but importantly, send a signal this
great product in hematology has a chance to be a leader. And it will be much, much bigger than it
would have been in our hands. So we are really going to create a lot more value.
Hematology is really a special case. And clearly, we do this out of a strategy of maximizing our
products. The financials are helpful, but if we needed to generate short-term profit, we have
many, many other options, believe me, to divest whatever products that are not part of our core.
I mean, all the companies have done that in the past, we can do this. We are not doing this. We
are kind of creating value long term with this hematology focus.
Hopefully, over time, people will understand the difference that it will create for our PD-L1 in
hematology. Here, we have a chance to win the rest and be a real leader in that field. Briggs, do
you want to cover the PD-L1 ATLANTIC question?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Yes. Tim, thanks for the question. So, to be clear, the accelerated approval regulation offer an
opportunity to show benefit over what the FDA considers to be existing, approved standard of
care. So, I think [Dr. Pasteur] has actually made some public comments about questions about the
PD-L1 positive patient, and has said that in the PD-L1 positive population, should there be
evidence that an agent provides an improvement over accepted standard of care, they would be
willing to look at that type of an application.
I don't think it matters what the mechanism is of the agent that shows an improvement over
standard of care in PD-L1 positive patient. So, yes, of course, Roche is a key competitor, but we
consider Merck's program in PD-L1 positive to be an important competitor to watch as well.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
And Pascal, can I just go back, I wasn't just referring to the Celgene deal, but just the general idea
that the board has set a number that's kind of forcing you guys to recategorize revenues and do
things differently than most of your competitors, which is book a lot of asset sales as continuing
operations revenue.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. I mean, sorry, maybe I should have addressed that one more specifically. I mean this is a
target that we have, which I think overall is actually a good target because we have to defend our
profit here. But more importantly, I don't think we should necessarily conclude this is forcing us to
do things we would not do otherwise, because what it's doing here is – in fact, what we are doing
here is implementing the strategy that we communicated last year, which is we – everybody,
every company has limitation on resources, everybody has to make a choice, a series of choices.So we could have decided we're going to stop a great variety of projects. We're going to close a
number of researches first, which is what many companies do. And we said no, we have great
scientists, great science, and we'll take this science and bring it to patients to create value. And of
course, it's not going to be 100% value left with us, but we'll get 50% of a bigger value. I mean
the BACE inhibitor is another good example, it will be bigger with Lilly than it would have been in
our hands, and we keep 50% of a bigger pie, if you will.
So we're basically implementing a different strategy. It's a strategy which is a mixture of what a
biotech company would do and what a large pharma company would do. And we don't want
necessarily to be a large pharma company like everybody else. We have biotech clinics. We set
our business up that way and now we want to kind of allow them to turn these products into a
reality. Otherwise, the alternative is we stop doing CNS activities. We stop doing infection. We
stop doing a variety of things. We said, no, we will turn these products into a reality differently.
So, I mean, sorry, it's maybe a long answer. The $420 million, no doubt is suddenly a target that is
not necessarily easy to achieve, but everybody has changing targets. But I really don't think it is
necessarily forcing us to do things that are bad because we are actually going to focus ourselves
on a few things we do well, and the rest will look at partnerships.
And your point about not having too many partnerships is a good one, and certainly, one that we
are considering. Of course, we don't want to have so many partnerships that it becomes
unwieldy to manage.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Can I ask Andrew to jump in? Andrew Baum, do you have a question?
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
A couple, actually. Firstly going back to page 30 and the news flow for the remainder of this year.
If I look at the top four drugs, AZD9291, selumetinib, MEDI4736, tremelimumab, and there's five
indications there, they're all for significant unmet medical disease where you already have very
strong signals from either of these trials or from the existing trials.
I guess what I'm saying is, assuming this means you're going to be able to file all these four
drugs, all five indications, including mesothelioma, as well as uveal melanoma, maybe
neurofibromatosis, obviously AZD9291, which means that you will have five new approvals as
early as first quarter of – or second quarter of next year, given the FDA stance towards unmet
medical disease. So, I'd be interested in comments on that, whether that's within the spectrum of
possibilities where you see that.
Second, I'd be interested in whether you participated in the Pharmacyclics process at any stage
as a precursor, as an alternative to Celgene transaction. And if not, why not? And then, perhaps
you could comment on your comments, Marc, around SG&A expectations both for 2015 with a
little bit more color and longer term, how you're thinking about it given the business needs?
And then finally, in China, there was recently announcements related to pricing, removing price
cap, how you think that will impact your Chinese business going forward. So apologies for the
number of questions.A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. Page 30, first of all, maybe we could ask Briggs to comment on this one. And we all hope
that it might be good but – it might be right, sorry, on low end. And if indeed they are right, in the
end, it is clearly one more reason why we need to focus ourselves and we can't be everywhere.
So we have all these launches to prepare. We have this – we have to keep developing those
products to their full potential, and that's another reason why in hematology we thought we
should not necessarily do it ourselves. So Briggs, do you want to cover that question?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
I sure will. So Andrew, thanks for your question and for sure, the scenario that you have outlined is
completely plausible and we are prepared for such an undertaking from a regulatory submission,
regulatory defense and potential launch of those products. And I would say I'll leave to Luke and
Mondher to comment on the commercial preparedness for those launches as well.
And I will again echo what Pascal just said, I do think that the hematology deal actually is a
wonderful opportunity for us to partner with somebody who can focus on some of the other
diseases while we continue to focus on the – what you have correctly outlined could potentially be
five new product launches in Oncology.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Luke, will you cover the China question?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS) & Corporate `
So in terms of China, I think the broad trends remain. I mean you've got high unmet need as you
go into the lower-tier cities, and the other provinces are still going to be a gap between what
most patients can afford and innovative medicine. So that broad pattern is unlikely to change.
I think capping in elements like that, we have to see how that's actually implemented at the
province level. What we are seeing is more competition at the tendering level in hospitals and a
lot more experimentation at the provincial level in terms of ways of accessing medicine. So again,
if we look into the future, tier pricing and combinations of access programs for the oncology
portfolio are going to be critical for us to drive growth.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Luke. In terms of Pharmacyclics, Andrew, we typically do not comment on discussions, we
may or may not have been involved, as you can imagine. But we felt suddenly that we needed a
strong partner in hematology, and our conclusion was certainly Celgene was the best partner
potentially that we could find to maximize the value of PD-L1. So, that's probably what I would
leave with that.
In terms of your SG&A question for Q1, I'll ask Marc. And maybe Marc, what you could do, if you
don't mind, is there is an email question from Eric Le Berrigaud. Let me read this question for you.
But it's interesting, you could cover both questions at the same time. And Eric's question is, do
you need further non-recurring positive externalization revenue or other income over the next
nine months to reach core EPS targets, low single-digit growth? And do you confirm the $450
million from Celgene go through P&L in Q2 and has a 6% positive impact for EBIT in 2015. If you
could cover both of those questions in one go.A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. Let me try to do that. So first of all, to answer the question on SG&A, you will have seen
that the first quarter SG&A is slightly under the average of 2014. But we have also said that for
the whole year of 2015, the SG&A will decrease in value and in percentage. So, we doubled our
efforts and make sure that we contain the SG&A expenses for the rest of the year.
We will continue effort on G&A, on general and administration expenses. We have done this for
several years. We are continuing this effort. This is basically IT. This is procurement and footprint,
basically, and also some functional costs. For the sales medical and marketing, the medical is
going to increase as we move – as we transition to a specialty care company. The marketing is
going to be the type of expenses are going to reduce the most dramatically. But overall, you can
already take some hint at what we have been able to achieve in 2015 first quarter, but it will
accelerate for the cost reduction.
Regarding the question of the non-recurring, what's called non-recurring externalization, first of
all, we intend to make this externalization recurring. And do we see a need to do furthermore for
the rest of the year? The answer is yes. We have said that we will have a combined effort on the
SG&A and on externalization revenues. We haven't given the proportion, but both are going to
be very important. So, yes, we still have some more work to do on the externalization revenues.
We are trying to turn this into a business model and recurring income.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. And in terms of SG&A also, I would like to attract your attention to the fact you
should look at the whole year, not first quarter, because you saw a slide a bit earlier that showed
you the trend quarter-by-quarter. There's a peak in Q4 last year. Q1 this year is back on trend of
the previous quarters of last year. So, just a mechanical effect of the blip in the increase in Q4 last
year and the impact on the whole year that Marc described will take us to where we need to be
in terms of SG&A reduction.
James Gordon. James, do you want to go and ask your question?
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hello. Thanks for taking my questions. James Gordon from JPMorgan. Two sort of onco questions
and one financial. So, first question was about the combos of the PD-L1/CTLA-4 arm of the
ARCTIC study. So Q4, you said that the dosing had been sorted but administrative issues
remained and it would start along shortly, but we – the show hasn't quite started yet. Can you just
say what the administrative issue was and is it something to do with the scheduling? Can you just
say what does scheduling actually mean in this context? Are you exploring another way of
combining the two, so that we get CTLA-4 upfront and then PD-L1, or something like that?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Is it your only question, James? Lots of people here...
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
No. I guess the other question was just in ASCO, one of the other pieces of data we're going to
see is in melanoma. So, the PD-L1 BRAF/MEK. And just how promising do you see that approach
when we've seen strong PD-L1/CTLA-4 data ready? Do you think this is an equally promisingapproach? Or does it look like PD-L1/CTLA-4 is a very strong approach and a very tough bar to
beat?
And then third question was just on financials. I'm just confirming how it's going to work with the
Celgene deal. So, you're going to book all the sales, I believe, but then with the royalties that you
pay out, all that goes through the P&L, or will that be through to like the Bristol arrangement,
where it's an off-P&L item for the royalties?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, James. I'll let Marc explain the financial question. The royalties – just to be very clear, the
royalties will be a cost item in our core results. And I'll let Marc explain the difference in accounting
treatment that is driven by the accounting standards actually between the two deals. So, Briggs,
do you want to cover the first two oncology questions?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Sure, I'd be glad to. So the first one on ARCTIC and getting the arm B, the combination up and
running. Well, you'll see in detail at ASCO the dosing schedule question, it is both a dose and a
schedule, then we'll explain what I mean. You'll see that when we present at ASCO.
The administrative things are essentially working with health authorities and IRBs to get – do the
scientific review and the regulatory review, and get the sites open and get the trial running. So
that is now well underway, and we really do think that in the next couple of weeks, we'll be able
to get arm B opened up and enrolling patients.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Briggs. Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So now you – explain the – so just to go back to the BMS acquisition, it was a business
combination. So we acquired assets, but also capabilities, personnel and development capacity.
So we had to treat it as a business combination, and this is why all the proceeds that are paid or
to be paid to the other party have to be combined. It's a business combination. You have to
combine the assets, and then you amortize them over time.
In the case of this Celgene transaction, we will book the sales, and as Pascal has just summarized
for you, we will also book the royalty that we have to pay to Celgene through our P&L. So it's a
much simpler deal in a way than the deal of BMS integration.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. We have a question from `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. at Exane. Simon?
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thank you for taking the questions. I've got three, please. Firstly, there were a number of
references to wholesaler destocking and wholesaler movements in the U.S. So, I just wondered if
you could give us a little bit more color and outlook for the trends you're seeing with destocking
on Crestor and Onglyza and wholesaler returns, post the Nexium genericization.
Secondly, a question for Marc. Just going back to the comments you made on SG&A. I wonder ifproportions of the total of SG&A now versus history.
And finally, I may have missed the answer. I'm not sure if you answered the question on the
booking of the Celgene payment as to whether that will be booked in its entirety in
externalization revenue in Q2. It would be good if you could give us an answer to that. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Can I ask Marc to cover the financial questions in a minute. Luke, you'll take care of Onglyza
inventory. Nexium returns, let me just deal with this. Nexium returns, there's a bit of a confusion
here. There's no returns per se. It's actually – we have to book – we have to take a provision for
potential returns. So essentially, the rule is that when you lose patent protection, you have to
estimate what you could have as a return and then take a provision for this. So it's not that there
is a lot of inventory in the trade that is written to us, it's just an estimate of what could be
returned, may not be returned actually but could be returned, and you have to take a provision
for that.
But before we address this, I've just realized we didn't really cover a question that was asked
before melanoma PD-L1. And we have Mohammed Dar, the head of our Early Clinical
Development Group-Oncology on the line. Mohammed, do you want to cover the question on
melanoma PD-L1 plus BRAF/MEK. Mohammed, do you want to go ahead?
A - `Mohammed M. Dar, Head of Clinical Development `
Sure. I'll be happy to do that. I think there's a couple of things to keep in mind. I think we're
encouraged by the early data that we're seeing with the triplet combination. So from a safety
profile, which is one of the important considerations, were encouraging. You'll see the data at
ASCO.
I think the other component as you were mentioning was the comparison to ipi/nivo in front line.
And so while we're encouraged by the early efficacy data, I think long-term durability is where the
question still remains, and that's the promise of adding a checkpoint to see whether the high
response rate can be maintained over time, and be comparable to ipi/nivo. And that we need to
wait for the data to mature.
So I think we're encouraged by the early safety data, as well as the efficacy data, but we need
more time to see about the durability of the triplet.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Mohammed. Marc, do you want to cover the...
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, just very briefly, I think it's on G&A. This is a continuation of the effort we have initiated
some time ago. We made already some good progress in 2014. We are going to redouble our
effort and try to provide as much money for the sales, medical and marketing as well as R&D. So
that's been – we have been doing this for some time. We are going to continue doing it. There's
nothing exceptional, and the weight of G&A on sales will be lower in 2015 than it was in 2014.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The Celgene payment booked in externalization.A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So the Celgene payment, the $450 million will be recognized as an externalization revenues in
the second quarter or when the transaction is closed because this needs to be done.
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS) & Corporate `
Okay. We're talking Onglyza, that's why we called it out, was around $9 million for the quarter. For
Crestor, we did see in January a slightly lower TRx share than we're expecting. I mean, there is
seasonality with CV products, of course, as patients wait to see which plan their employers are
going to take. So they can be reluctant to fill scripts at that point. But again, we expect this to
work itself out, and NBRx is again growing in February and March. And of course, on top of that,
which is not always visible, is the impact of the fee which was employed, as I said, that ranges
between 2.5% and 3% on products in the U.S. which can distort the figures somewhat.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And so I'm really sorry. I know we have more questions, but we have to stop at 1:00. And so we,
unfortunately, need to end our Q&A now. Let me just thank you all for joining us today. And those
who have still questions, if you could contact our IR group, that would be great.
And I'd just like to leave you with a parting thought that we believe we had a good start for the
year. We're progressing our pipeline. We're implementing our strategy, which includes the
externalization that I mentioned which is a sustainable part of our business model moving
forward. We're on track to do our goals. We believe we can deliver the guidance for the year. And
the most exciting part is we believe we're making tremendous progress with our pipelines.
So, with that, thank you so much for joining us.