Q1 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. Our first question is over to the line of `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) at HSBC. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `Yes. Thanks and good afternoon. So, it's Horst from HSBC. I've got actually three `questions, please wait for some technical advice.
please. The first one relates to your BBA results or respectively the low at-equity contribution that
you recorded in Q1. So, maybe you can give a little bit more explanation, what happens there in
Q1. Is that now on a run rate we should expect for the next few quarters there or were the special
one-off bookings which will not occur again in the next few quarter? So, that's question number
one.
Number two is, I still struggle to forecast the reconciliation line. So, starting the year, I think the
expectation was that we should go for a negative burden here in the next few quarters, now I
see again that there was even a positive result. So, I want to understand what is driving that
specifically in Q1 and what should we expect now for the next few quarters and why especially
should this line turn negative as of a sudden in Q2 or Q3? And the last but not least, the question
is on, other cost changes maybe you can give a little bit an explanation how this cost category will
develop in the next few quarters? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker). This will be answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Yeah. So, Horst, just want to start with your first question about the BBA result. Keep in mind, the
first quarter of 2014 was a very strong quarter still a very pulling market, pricing in good shape
and high volume. So, the basis was quite high; and now in 2015, we saw that there is more
competitiveness in the market and the market was lot weaker than the year before.
At the same point in time, we have to see that we are now ramping up cost in our joint venture.
That has a lot to do with the new models that will be brought to the joint venture and what we
have to localize. So, as you know, this will be a new X1s, it will be additional product going
forward; and therefore, we announced starting ramping up our capacities bringing in the
equipment and preparing for those capacity increases. So, that is the major element and this will
be on the element going forward as well now for the whole year. So, we have a higher Q2 cost
element now in the equation, if you want so, going forward.
But on the other hand, BBA is still growing its business. So, we don't see that, this is something
that is unexpected, we always knew that this will come; so that was the BBA result.
And the second question was about the reconciliation, well, as you know, basically you're right
with an increasing leasing normally it should be more negative. We had some positive effects
especially in the first quarter now, for example, early termination, in fact that we have, that means
that customers are terminating the cars early in order to buy a new one, we support that
development. And this had a very positive influence on that line. And that's more or less the
major explanation besides other minor elements in that line.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
But, sorry, that should continues in the next few quarters, that it was a one off thing, right?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, our forecast says; but now, it will be step wise more negative going forward, because that
was campaigns we had in place, beginning on the year especially in the U.S. and I don't think that
this will hold on at that level.So, we think that with the growing business, especially in markets like U.S., the line eliminations
and reconciliations will be a bit more negative than even last year. That's what we are expecting.
So, our first quarter that was a bit too positive compared to what we are expecting to come the
next few quarters. That's absolutely right.
Then on the cost changes, well, we still stay with the guidance we gave to you guys in the
beginning of the year, it will be well a burden of a mid-to-high triple digit million euro amount. In
essence, it's again future costs, I mean we are investing in new products. We are preparing very
important products for launch, so to say, the new 7 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman. for example. That is all to come in the
second half of the year, so we see more burden in second half of the year of this. And this will
lead us, combined with a solid increase in head count and wages, this will lead us to higher cost,
as I explained to you. So, no change in the guidance on that element.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
That means also in Q2 it will be rather low. So, could it be also positive in Q2 again or that was
really a one-off that this item was positive?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
We are not expecting that it will be positive.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
All right.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
That's from 100 days perspective, right.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Okay.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Okay. I think those were your three `questions, please wait for some technical advice., right?
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Yeah. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
You're welcome.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please?
Operator
Next question is over to the line of Philip Watkins at Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Philip R. Watkins, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `Yeah. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to our Telephone. Thank you. Philip from Citi. I just wondered if I could just go back on to BBA
question. I don't know if you'd be prepared to give any more granularity on those specific moving
parts in the first quarter. So, what relates to competition on production start-ups capacitate. And
was FX any kind of a support in the quarter? And just for me to be absolutely clear, you're saying
that the negative impacts for the first quarter will last throughout the remaining of the year. So, I
guess, are you thinking for a similar level of profit in the following quarters as there was in Q1 for
BBA? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Philip. The connection was very bad, but I think we understand a little
bit what your question is. I give it to Mr. Eichiner. Mr. Eichiner, please?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, so, I mean, FX didn't play a major role for BBA in the first quarter. I think the real overriding
effects were competition, so especially pricing. And you are aware of what's going on in China.
There is a discussion about pricing ongoing. We see a kind of a normalization effect over there.
And that had an effect definitely.
And then, as I said, the second very important effect is related to all the new products that will be
brought to China. So, we are preparing to localize a further three products in the joint venture.
But that means basically that we're doubling the joint venture portfolio and basically it has to have
an effect. And so, we are now ramping up for this investment. There are planning cost,
development cost and other things now going on in order to prepare, and this is the major effect.
So, we again are investing into the future growth of BBA with those initiatives. So, that's basically
the background of this. So, one is market, as I said, driven by the normalization and everything
else that's going on there. The other is our planned increase of product momentum, portfolio
enhancement and things like that. So, that's the background of this. Now, we think that there will
be effect in the whole year as well, and that was always clear. That's what our expectation is for
2015.
Q - `Philip R. Watkins, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you. And so, in terms of pricing (35:03), but it's something you've talked about in terms of
basis points, I mean, 100 basis points to 200 basis point, I don't know if you're prepared to say
how down is it's in China or how down it can be in China this year?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, honestly, I don't have the number available. So, I don't want to tell you something wrong. So.
Q - `Philip R. Watkins, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Okay.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
That's what I cannot tell you.
Q - `Philip R. Watkins, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
In terms of volumes then for the year, what do you expect volumes for you for the year in China?A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, we think, as I've said, we still expect despite that the environment is normalizing that it
should be possible to grow the business this year as well. We are expecting solid growth, that
means in a range of between 5% and 9.9%, right.
Q - `Philip R. Watkins, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
In that range.
Q - `Philip R. Watkins, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Philip. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. We'll now go to line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC of Evercore. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC `
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for and good afternoon, everyone. Two question from my side, please. The
first one a bit more of a technical question, really, for Dr. Eichiner. Your other provisions have really
increased a lot year-over-year and also from the end of last year. So, you now have a number of
around €9.5 billion in other provisions, that's roughly €2 billion more than last year same time, up
30%. Can you talk a little bit what's driving this substantial increase in provisioning activity, which is
clearly way beyond the increase in unit sales?
And the second question, again, sorry, coming back to China, because it's scaring so many of
your investors. Can you talk a little bit more why the mass market is currently behaving better
than the premium market? And whether you see some specific reasons for that that could make
this a more sustainable development, because so far, you've always said that premium should
grow stronger than the mass market?
And also coming back to the discussions we had on your dealers in China, it still appears that your
dealers are voicing their concerns more loudly and more aggressively in the market. And as a
consequence BMW is seen as having clearly more problems with its product portfolio than its
peers. So, either your dealers really have more problems or you need to manage your
relationship better. What's really going on there? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant`Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC, thank you very much. I think we start very briefly with `Mr. Reithofer, please go ahead. and then with
Mr. Eichiner.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
Mr. Ellinghorst, I would like to look a bit into the future. I mean, if I see the Chinese pressure in the
car market, then, as I said during my speech, is predicted to grow by roughly 70% in 2015 to
approximately 20.3 million units. What does it mean? It means it is still a very important, very
strong car market. It does add some moment from a volume point of view, the most important
car market of the world. It still is true.
So, it's a moment inside the market we can see, the main focus of growth will shift from the
increasingly, I have to say, saturated cost of cities to interior provinces. And if I look into the
market and I feel the next, let me say five years to 10 years, then I can say over the long-term,
growth of cars will normalize, but purchases will still be driven by the middle-class increasing
purchasing power.
And now what you have to see, I mean, at the moment we have the situation, the market
environment is currently feeling the effects of a slightly weaker economy. I mean please have in
mind, during the past couple of years, we had GDP growth rates in the two-digit range always in
the two-digit range. And now, we were going down and down and down and down. And now 7%,
that's the lowest GDP growth rate, I think we had for years.
And, of course, it will affect the Chinese market, and if you ask me, during the first three months,
why was the premium car market from a growth point of view, only half of the total car market,
then I can only say, I mean, we have for example anticorruption campaign. And if I see our Rolls-
`Royce, 780 motor cars were sold in the first quarter, which were fewer than in the same period figures, then I see clearly the impact of the anticorruption campaign.
And we have a pricing campaign in the Chinese market, and it will lead as well to a normalizing
pricing situation in the market. And all the effects are now at on – I would like to say. And it seems
to be that it hits the premium car market more than the total car market. But, as I said, I mean,
over the long-term, growth will normalize, but still how we see it will be driven by the middle-class
increasing purchasing power. And that is how we see it, and more as pure speculation, more as
pure looking into a crystal ball.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC `
Dr. Reithofer, I appreciate that and these comments on the overall market. But, it just seems that
you are affected more than your competitors. And that's a concern that some of your
shareholders might have?
A - Norbert Reithofer `
No, that is not how we see it. I mean, we see a normalizing process in the premium car market
segment. We see such situation and it affects others as well, not just BMW. All we see things and
rethinks in a different way.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `Yeah. On your question about the provision. So, first of all, we have to see that we are in a
growing environment. We are growing our business. And so, all the obligations are ongoing. Our
operating expenses are growing, so LIBOR and things like that.
But, the major effect is due to the personnel expenses. For example, in order to fund the profit
participation and the bonuses, as well wage increase and things like that, right? So, that's a major
driver of this. And as you know, there was an increase of head count that took place and this has
a related effect.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC `
Okay. Thanks.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please?
Operator
Our next question is over to the line of `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to our Telephone. `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Thanks for taking my `questions, please wait for some technical advice.. A few
actually on China, just coming back to the dealership top-up or bonus, additional bonuses you
paid in the first quarter, I imagine there was clearly an impact of that in these numbers. Can you
provide a sort of better color? I know you're not going to give me the exact numbers. But, how
was that split maybe proportionately between the consolidated group and the associates? Was
there a disproportionate burden on your associates? Or was that fairly evenly split?
You've been pretty clear about the price cut and we can all see what's happening in the market.
And I think you made some comments as a group around the Shanghai Auto Show that there
would be some further pricing revisions in Q2 in China. Can you give us some detail around that?
Is that focus purely on the local units? Are we seeing that across the board in terms of your
imported units?
And just in terms of that imported units, do you think you can still grow those imported units into
China year-on-year in 2015, which I think coming through the full-year conference was still broadly
speaking the ambition?
Finally, if I may, just on the rate to dealership growth this year, I know, that has been important for
the group. What do you expect to hope that your dealership network in China can grow by this
year in 2015? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Fraser, Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, your first question about support, we gave to dealers, basically, it was more or less a 50-50
approach that we took. Now, coming back to the developments in China, you `mentioned, our business development in the first three months of the year confirms our. I think,
there are different things coming together.First of all, we have to see that the market is slowing down and dealers have to get used to a
situation where their business has to be more than just new car business. So far, their only income
stream is new car business whereas in the other parts of the world, dealers are earning money
with the aftersales business, the used car business and things like that.
So that is missing, and though they are depending too much on just the new car business. They
have invested heavily sometimes more than we wanted them to invest, but the China too, and
now, we see that the new car business, based on the developments in the economy in the China,
the anticorruption campaign and all other things, is not growing at a same speed as we've seen it
in the past. And this has an influence on their profitability.
So, we are in a situation that we now have to develop the business model of the dealers and that
is where our focus is that they have a more broader approach to the `Automotive segment, we are still aiming for a target range of 8% to 10%. in
China, would that develop after sales business and other elements, as I `mentioned, our business development in the first three months of the year confirms our it. So, that's
something that we call it change and we're in the middle of that change.
Now, of course, change always hurts to a certain extent and sometimes, when something hurts
people are crying out, that is what we experienced as well. But, I want to make sure that you
understand that we know what's going on and there is a strategy what we want to with that, so
that's our view. And that's how we are pushing now forward. We're trying to support them. We're
trying to help them changing the business model. We're doing a lot of things in order to help
them making the change.
And we help them stop the bleeding to a certain extent; because of course, they had a profit hit
as this change came in very quickly. So, we had a very solid first half 2014, everything fine. And in
the second half of the year, those kind of development accelerated in the market and they
couldn't respond fast enough. So, we gave them support as well in order to keep them in the
network.
But that's how we look at it. And as Dr. Reithofer said, we know that this is similar picture with
others in the automotive world in China as well, that's not only us, maybe we're being a bit more
in the headlines, but nevertheless we know everybody else had the same problem.
So, having said that, now that the question is what is really the impact, especially on the BBA
side? And there is another element coming in. We have to see that BBA is now in the first half of
the year in a situation where the product portfolio is aging. We don't have new product
momentum and new competitors are coming in with new products. This will change at the end of
the year, where we get for example, a very attractive and competitive new X1 in place and things
like that.
But, at the moment, we are a bit suffering from the aging portfolio within BBA. And this has, of
course, also a pricing effect and that is watching through a certain extent. Dealer network, we still
intent to grow our dealer network, maybe – at the four month will be a bit more different to the
past. We are not going for very heavy investments, we try to find right balance there, but there is
no doubt about it, we will grow our network further in order to grow our business. So, that's how
we look at it.
Q - `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And that dealer network grow to double-digit during this year or they're a bit more muted?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `Q - `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thanks.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Yeah.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please?
Operator
We're now over to the line of `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. at Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Oh, yes, it's `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. here, thank you for taking my `questions, please wait for some technical advice.. I've got one more question
on pricing, but more general pricing, not just specific to China, but in Europe, I think you said in Q1
pricing globally was a little bit tougher. Could you just give a little bit more color on what you're
seeing and what you're expecting for the outlet especially given the raft of new models coming?
And then my second question relates to FX. I was just wondering, if you could give an update on
the level of hedging that you have in place now for next year for the major currency? And also,
whether that hedging, what proportion of that hedging is done by straightforward forwards and
how much you see like options in your financial hedging? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Kristina. This will be answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, hi, Kristina. So, first of all, you're absolutely right. So, we have a different heterogeneous
situation around the world. So, whilst in China, as I explained, there is more pricing pressure now
going on. We see in Europe that the pricing is recovering, so we see that transaction prices are
improving, not at a big scale but we see that this is a kind of a trend and that gives us a lot of
confidence that Europe might come back. So, that's the two controversial developments we see.
`Having said that, there will always remain new challenges for our business. These include political, U.S is fairly stable, we see a bit more pricing, because now everybody is looking
at you as the exchange rate is favorable now, all the importers now are driving their volumes to a
certain extent. So, we've seen that in sales numbers as well. And I'm sure you've followed up that.
But it's not something serious. I think it has to do with this competition and the currency, as I
explained. So, that's what we see hedging, while we have both elements in place. Our hedging
strategy in the past always was in a way and that we are using a mix of options and forwards. It
depends on how far we are away from the buying power equilibrium, and as it is like this, you'll
see the consequences in the financial result of the `Automotive segment, we are still aiming for a target range of 8% to 10%. as well. And we will
move on doing this in the same way going forward.
Now, this year is – we are more or less through without hedging, of course. And next year, we
have a very solid position and disposition is definitely higher than 50% in major currencies, that's
what I can say today.A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please?
Operator
Our next question is from the line of `Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany) at Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead with
your question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany) `
Hi. Thanks. It's Mike Raab from Kepler Cheuvreux. Just getting back to China, could you please
make clear just for my understanding, what the benchmark for the production cuts in the second
quarter is that you announced, is that relative to the first quarter of this year, relative to the
second quarter of last year? Is this against the old budget that you originally had for China before
you – pretty revised that downwards? Or is this perhaps against the new budget?
Then secondly, which of the models are affected the most by the local production cuts, is it 3
`Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman., is that the X1, which you just shifted there?
And then finally, since you `mentioned, our business development in the first three months of the year confirms our that a year ago, China was still a fairly decent pull market,
are you seeing the danger that perhaps on the back of the accumulation of locally installed
production capacity even in the premium segment this is increasingly becoming a push market as
your competitors and perhaps yourselves are trying to utilize the freshly added capacities?
Thanks.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany). Mr. Eichiner, please?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, basically I have to come back to what I said already. We have a slowing product momentum
now especially in the joint venture until the end of the year. Our Life Cycle Impulse is coming in for
the 3 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman., so we have run-out situation on the 3 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman., and we will replace the X1 at the end
of the year, so we have a run-out on that as well. And we on the other side the 5 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman. is now
already in the second half of its life cycle. I mean, that's the situation within BBA. And, of course,
this has a certain influence on how you market the cars.
So, your question about what we've done, I mean we have seen in the first quarter that the
market in China is slowing down more than we anticipated at the end of last year. That's
something that came through. And as always, we try to avoid push and we started cutting
production back and balancing dealer stocks and things like that. Because as you said, and we are
sharing your views, driving premium via a push market is not what we want to do. And if you don't
want to do this, then the consequence is you have to cut production until the demand and supply
is again in balance, and that's what we did.
So, as I said, as the 3 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman. is on a run-out because the facelift is coming in, the major reduction
was done for the 3 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman.. That's what we did.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany) `
Okay. But just to make sure I'm completely understanding this correctly, the reduction, is that in
line with the new budget that acts as a foundation to the guidance you issued a few weeks agoor is that even versus the guidance that you originally issued a few weeks ago?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
I think our guidance is not at all influenced by this. We think our guidance is solid guidance. I
confirmed it in my speech today. And even the first quarter is confirming the guidance because
we said our profit will be a solid one, a solid growth on group level and that is something which is
reflected in our numbers already in the first quarter. So, we are quite confident that the guidance
will be met at the end of the year, right.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany) `
So, is it in line with the budget that you issued few weeks ago?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
At the end of the day, we are talking at the total budget of all car sales. We always have
fluctuations, that's nothing abnormal. Last year, the Russian market was blown away. And, of
course, we had a different budget for the Russian market, but we compensated in other markets.
So, you'll see a lot of fluctuation based on the original budget in our product allocation. But as
long as we compensate developments in one market with better sales in other markets, there is
no issue at all and that's the case for the group.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany) `
All right. Thank you. And perhaps one final note, Dr. Reithofer, all the best for your future. Thank
you.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for from my side.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany). I think, we have time for two more `questions, please wait for some technical advice.. I think, yes, I
think it's five minutes to 3:00. Yes, two more `questions, please wait for some technical advice.. Next question, please?
Operator
Next question is from the line of `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA (Broker) of Metzler Capital Markets. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA (Broker)
Yes. Hi, good afternoon. I'll make it quick, the two short `questions, please wait for some technical advice., one on China, sorry for that.
One on China the – could it be – and I've read this in one market research that the catching up
situation in which Mercedes is, that this is affecting you more than your competitors as Mercedes
is closer in terms of product positioning to BMW than, for example, to Audi?
And secondly, there was an article just few weeks ago in (56:31) that the full carbon fiber body
has turned out to be a dead-end street and you're correcting this trend or you're correcting this
direction in the next generation or in the next i5 product to a mixed body of steel aluminum and
carbon fiber instead of a full carbon fiber thing? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA (Broker). `Mr. Reithofer, please go ahead., please?
A - Norbert Reithofer `
I mean, I was reading the article as well. It was a very interesting one. I would like to say one thing
to the BMW i3. The BMW i3 is a material mixture. Their chassis is aluminum. The core of the whole
structure is carbon fiber and the add-on parts are thermoplastic. What that means, the whole
construction is an intelligent material mix, including aluminum, including carbon fiber, including
thermoplastic.
So, if I look into the new BMW 7 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman., or let me come first to the BMW i8. We have already more
experience as how to deal with carbon fiber from the i3 to the BMW i8 and even more
experience from the BMW i8 to the new BMW 7. So, the BMW 7 is, I would say, a very intelligent
material mix, including high strength steel. Aluminum, by the way we have learned as well on the
aluminum side from projects we had 10 years ago, our predecessors the current 7 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman., for
example, and we know how to use carbon fiber in a very intelligent material mix.
And our guys said in Miramas and I say at least we reduced the weight of that car by 130 kilos.
And I would say, we know how to handle material mix, and we knew it already with the BMW i3.
We have learned a lot during the development phase of BMW i3. We put it into the BMW i8 in a
different way and in an even better way in the new BMW 7. And that is a normal development
process how it works.
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA (Broker)
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
And China, Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, your question about competition, I mean, it's easy to read. They are following the strategy –
their competitors have already in place. They are localizing more products, products that didn't
had before. So, this will generate for a certain period additional momentum until everybody is
then in the same position. And then, this momentum will level out. But that's one element to it.
And the other element, I explained it already that our BBA products and that is where the volume
is, are now in an aging situation for a certain period and with the replacement of the 3 `Series, the 2 Series Gran Tourer and the MINI Clubman. by
the new face lifted product and with the replacement of X1 with a completely new X1, this will
change in the course of the year. And then the competitiveness of the portfolio will go up again.
So, that is how we look at it, and that's all.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. A quick last question, please?
Operator
In that case, we'll quickly go to the line of Charles Winston at Redburn Partners. Please go ahead,
Charles. Your line is open.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Redburn Partners LLP `Yeah. Thank you, so Charles from Redburn. Just one question from me, we've seen this marked
acceleration in new contracts in the `Financial Services, was higher than for the first three months of 2014. There's growing demand division really since first quarter of last year,
and obviously, some very significant result this quarter. Question is this, is this demand-led or QE-
led. In other words, are we seeing that because you are able to offer cheaper financing, because
of QE. Is that sort of one of the drivers here or is it completely a customer pull situation where
just demand for credit has increased very rapidly. It's just, this very sudden turnaround in new
contract growth over the past 12 months, 15 months. I'm just trying to get my head around it,
because it's clearly doesn't match exactly what you're seeing in terms of underlying volumes?
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, I think it's both. I mean, as we have favorable financing rates and a very solid used car
business and stable residual values, our monthly payments, rates are favorable and competitive
and that's what customers, of course, bridge it. That's one thing.
The second element is that we see a lot of growth in markets, where leasing and financing plays
a major role, like the U.S. for example. U.S. picked up a lot of momentum, high growth rates, and
of course, in this market financing plays a much higher role than in any other markets around the
world. So, those are the elements that are driving, to a certain extent, the penetration rate a bit
up in the first quarter.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Redburn Partners LLP `
Okay. Clear. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Mr. Eichiner. So, ladies and gentlemen, today was the last telephone
conference held with the current Chairman of our Management Board, Norbert Reithofer. Dr.
Reithofer, also on behalf of all our participants, I'd like to thank you for often taking this
opportunity to discuss our business with many interested analysts and investors. Thank you very
much.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close our telephone conference. I wish you all the best.
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for and bye-bye.