Q3 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to (0:47) from Toyota, who will moderate today's conference.
Unverified Participant
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial result conference call for the fiscal year 2015 third
quarter. I am (1:01) from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation, and Miss Morita, our interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is as follows. First, Mr. Otake will very briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Miss Morita will take over the rest of presentation.
This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page two
of today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading
is included on page three. Both of the statement can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the three months from October to December 2014.
Let me start with slide five. Our consolidated vehicle sales for the third quarter of this fiscal year
decreased by 54,000 units to 2.263 million units year-on-year. This was due to declined sales
mainly in Japan and Asia despite increased sales in North America. As shown on the left side of
slide five, our consolidated vehicle sales for the nine month from April to December 2014
decreased by 45,000 units to 6.740 million units.
Please see slide six. Our consolidated financial performance for the third quarter of this fiscal year
resulted in net revenues of ¥7,170.0 billion, operating income of ¥762.8 billion, pre-tax income of
¥846.4 billion and net income of ¥600.0 billion. Now, I'd like to hand the rest of today's
presentation to Miss Morita, our interpreter.Unverified Participant
Next, using slide seven, I would like to highlight the major factors which impacted operating
income for the third quarter year-on-year. Despite an increase in expenses, operating income
improved by ¥162.3 billion to ¥762.8 billion due to the yen's depreciation and continued cost
reduction efforts.
As summarized in slide eight, our consolidated financial results for the nine months from April
2014 to December 2014 were net revenues of ¥20,115.6 billion, operating income of ¥2,114.8
billion, pre-tax income of ¥2,355.6 billion and net income of ¥1,726.8 billion.
Please take a look at slide number nine for the major factors which impacted operating income
for the nine months year-on-year. Operating income improved by ¥258.8 billion to ¥2,114.8 billion
as a result of the positive factors such as favorable foreign exchange rates and cost reduction
efforts, which more than offset the negative factors such as increased expenses.
Next, I would like to discuss operating income for each region. Please take a look at slide number
10, particularly the left side of the slide indicating the third quarter results. In Japan, although new
models such as the Esquire and the Lexus NX drove sales, overall vehicles sales for the third
quarter decreased by 42,000 units to 498,000 units as demand continued to falter after the rise
in the consumption tax rate. Operating income, however, increased by ¥93.4 billion to ¥424.8
billion due primarily to favorable foreign exchange rates and cost reduction efforts.
Please look at slide 11. In North America, against the backdrop of solid market conditions, the third
quarter vehicle sales rose by 48,000 units to 712,000 units year-on-year, driven particularly by the
Highlander and the Tacoma. Operating income excluding valuation gains and losses from interest
rate swaps, et cetera, was ¥167.9 billion, up ¥45 billion compared to the third quarter of the last
fiscal year. This is mainly a result of increased vehicle sales and cost reduction efforts.
Please look at slide number 12. In Europe, vehicle sales for the third quarter remained in line with
the same period of the last fiscal year at 220,000 units. This is due to declined sales in Eastern
Europe and Russia despite strong sales of the Aygo and the Yaris HB, mostly in Western Europe.
Operating income was ¥33.2 billion, up ¥15.5 billion year-on-year, primarily as a result of cost
reduction efforts.
Please look at slide 13. In Asia, overall vehicle sales for the third quarter were down 48,000 units
to 374,000 units, mainly due to declined sales in Thailand, where the market remained sluggish,
and in Indonesia, where competition was severe. Operating income remained broadly unchanged
year-on-year at ¥107.6 billion as decreased vehicle sales, et cetera, offset the effect of cost
reduction efforts.
Please move on to slide number 14. In other regions, the third quarter vehicle sales increased in
Oceania and the Middle East but declined in Africa and Central America and South America year-
on-year. As a result, overall vehicle sales fell by 9,000 units to 459,000 units compared to the
same period of the last fiscal year. Operating income was ¥29.3 billion, down ¥2.8 billion year-on-
year mainly due to an increase in expenses in spite of the positive impact from marketing efforts.
Now, please take a look at slide 15 for Financial Services. Operating income excluding valuation
gains and losses from interest rate swaps, et cetera, for the third quarter was ¥86.1 billion, up
¥5.9 billion compared to the same period of the last fiscal year mainly due to an increased
lending balance.Next, please refer to slide 16. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the third quarter was
¥85.1 billion, down ¥4.1 billion year-on-year. Please note that the fiscal yearend of our affiliated
companies in China is in December. Therefore, equity in earnings of these companies for the
third quarter reflects their earnings from July 2014 to September 2014.
Now, I'd like to move on to discuss our outlook for the full fiscal year, which will end in March 2015.
Please take a look at slide number 18. With regard to our consolidated vehicle sales for the full
fiscal year, we reduced our November forecast of 9.05 million units by 50,000 units to 9 million
units. Based on the latest sales trend, we now expect weaker sales in Japan, Europe and Asia
and stronger sales in North America and the other regions. We will continue to monitor the
market conditions in each country closely and stimulate demand for our vehicles by implementing
effective marketing measures accordingly.
Please move on to the next slide, slide number 19. We revised our assumptions on foreign
exchange rates to ¥115 to the U.S. dollar and ¥135 to the euro from January 2015 onwards, thus
adopting ¥109 to the U.S. dollar and ¥139 to the euro for the full year. Based on this forex
assumption, our revised forecast of consolidated financial performance for the current fiscal year
are net revenues of ¥27 trillion, operating income of ¥2.7 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥2.920 trillion,
and net income of ¥2.130 trillion.
Now please look at slide 20 for the analysis of our latest operating income forecast in
comparison to our November forecast. While we expect a reduction in vehicle sales, we are
raising our operating income forecast by ¥200 billion to ¥2.7 trillion, factoring in the change in our
forex assumption and the progress in our profit improvement activity such as cost reduction
efforts.
Finally, please refer to slide 21 for our forecast of R&D expenses, CapEx, and depreciation
expenses. In our latest forecast, R&D expenses are up ¥20 billion to ¥1 trillion in order to further
reinforce our R&D activities as well as due to the revised forex assumption. We also revised our
forecast of CapEx and depreciation expenses upwards by ¥20 billion and ¥10 billion respectively
in accordance with the revised forex assumption.
Toyota is actively promoting initiatives to increase its competitiveness towards sustainable
growth. At the end of 2014, we launched Mirai, a fuel cell vehicle with a potential to realize a new
mobility society. We also plan to install Toyota Safety Sense, a newly-developed package of
active safety technologies with world-leading performance in almost all our passenger vehicles
for Japan, North America and Europe by the end of 2017.
In order to deliver ever-better cars, which will bring smiles to our customers, we will continue to
work steadily towards reinforcement of R&D capabilities and establishment of a business
foundation, which is able to support annual production in sales of 10 million units.
We at Toyota are determined to do our best so that each of these activities will lead not only to
the enhancement of our true competitiveness towards sustainable growth, but also to a virtuous
cycle of the Japanese economy.
This concludes my presentation on the third quarter financial results. Thank you very much for
your attention.
Thank you. Now we will gradually take your questions but only up to two questions per person
please. Other questions may be posed later if time allows. You do not have to name yourselves.
Our conference operator will explain how to connect your line.Q&A
Operator
Thank you, (13:45). Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. We will
now pause for a moment to receive the first question.
Hello. Thank you for the call. I'd like to ask about the expected impact of TNGA and in terms of
the cost impact that will have, I suppose, over the coming years and when you'd expect the
benefits of that to show through in terms of obviously the launches and the following cost savings
resulting from that.
As a wider sort of question related to that, I'd also be intrigued as to your thoughts on capital
expenditure requirements going into next year and on a medium-term basis and whether we
should expect a step-up in, sort of, a sustainable level of CapEx going forward now.
[Foreign Language] (15:23-16:01)
[Foreign Language] (16:02-16:15)
Thank you for your question. I interpreted your question to be related to when and in what
manner the impact of TNGA activities would manifest themselves on cost, among others.
[Foreign Language] (16:30-17:00)
And with respect to the TNGA, first of all, we are planning to introduce TNGA based parts starting
with so-called SF-based vehicle models gradually step by step. For instance, this year, that is
2015, amongst middle-sized models which are expected to be launched and, therefore, those
are referred to C-segment vehicles were the new models, about 30% of the cost of the parts
incorporated in those new models are expected to TNGA based parts.
[Foreign Language] (17:37-18:12)
With respect to the model to be launched thereafter, not just relating to underbodies or
platform, including engines, transmissions and other drive train related parts, we are expecting to
expand the range of TNGA parts to be installed onto these models. And therefore, at that point
in time, our current plan envisages approximately 70% of the cost of those parts in the vehicles to
be TNGA-based parts.
[Foreign Language] (18:47-19:02)
As I have just mentioned, the time at which the approximately 70% of the cost of those parts
would be TNGA-based, that is to say to be replaced with TNGA-based parts would be around
2017 or thereafter.
[Foreign Language] (19:21-19:46)
And therefore in relation to your second question, that is to say the CapEx plan over a medium
and long-term, as I have just mentioned in the next few years, we are planning to renew
platforms, engines, transmissions and other major drive train related parts with the new parts.
[Foreign Language] (20:06-20:49)
On the other hand, thus far we have been using the expression of the basic unit investment. That
is to say compared with the investments made in the past, we are trying to reduce the basicamount of the CapEx required to build a single plant or a single line by approximately 40% or
50%. That is the approach we are taking for the building of a new line and therefore, for the
current fiscal year we are moving towards ¥1,050 billion in total CapEx amount. And compared
with that particular level, we are not expecting to see any substantial increase in CapEx going
forward.
Okay. That's very clear. Thank you. And in terms of usage of TNGA cars, can you give us just a
rough indication of the average cost savings you would take from the use of TNGA car relative to
an older car?
[Foreign Language] (21:57-22:07)
[Foreign Language] (22:10-22:47)
It is very difficult to cite such and such percentage in terms of the cost savings in general because
above all, the fact that we are implementing TNGA aims not just cost reduction. In addition to
cost reduction or much over and above that, we are trying to come up with a vehicle that offers
much greater joy or pleasure in terms of higher performance, higher quality as well as
excitement, among others. And that's even the greater objective of TNGA activities we are
pursuing and to offer higher product features and attractiveness through new models with this
TNGA.
[Foreign Language] (23:33-24:00)
Furthermore, the TNGA-related activities are not just confined to designs or engineering. Those
activities extend to a variety of fields or domains, engineering designs, the procurement
production engineering, among others. And at the same time, through those activities, it will even
extend to the reform of the way in which the work is done or work is promoted.
[Foreign Language] (24:27-24:47)
Take for instance the perspective of efficiency of a development by resorting to group
development activities we intend to pursue smart usage of shared parts. And through those
activities we are planning to achieve a 20% or 30% higher efficiency of development efforts.
Okay. Thank you.
Thank you. Next, please.
Hi. Thank you. Thank you for taking my question. My first question is to ask for an update of the
alternative cash of the company and whether you see any large one-off items for Q4. Thank you.
Could you repeat that question, please?
Sure. So, I was wondering if you can give us an update for the alternate cash of the company that
at Q4 was at ¥6.4 trillion. And the second part of the question is were there any large one-off
items that might impact the cash pile in Q4.
[Foreign Language] (26:08-26:27)
[Foreign Language] (26:29-26:53)
On a consolidated basis, excluding Financial Services activities, allow me to give you the outline of
net cash position. First of all, at the time we started out this fiscal year, that is to say the end ofMarch 2014, so that's the end of the previous fiscal year, the position of net cash was over ¥6.4
trillion.
[Foreign Language] (27:17-27:41)
Thereafter, if I may just refer to major developments moving toward the end of December 2014,
in terms of free cash flow, that is to say, the net income accumulation of that, the depreciation
expenses as well as CapEx, the net cash position increased.
[Foreign Language] (28:03-28:28)
On the other hand, moving toward the fiscal yearend, we paid out cash dividends and during this
fiscal year period we repurchased our own shares and also paid our corporate income tax as well.
And so the net cash accumulated by around ¥300 billion.
Thank you. And my second question is about the non-operating income. There is an implied ¥20
billion non-operating income loss for Q4 and I understand that dividends and interest will go
down. But that leaves about ¥30 billion of loss for forex and other. Can you please give us the
factors that's driving that loss? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (29:34-29:58)
[Foreign Language] (29:58-30:21)
Thank you for the question. According to our estimates or forecast for Q4, as we pointed out, we
are expecting forex-related losses to increase by around ¥20 billion relating to receivables, that is
to say the realized losses stemming from receivables causing this increase in FX-related losses.
[Foreign Language] (30:44-30:58)
As was mentioned in the presentation itself, for the fourth quarter we have adopted forex rate
assumption, which indicates the U.S. dollar to be ¥115 and the impact of that assumption is
reflected here in this FX losses I have just mentioned.
Okay. Thank you.
Thank you. Next, please.
Please wait for the next question. Please wait for a moment for the next question.
Hello. I wonder if I could ask a quick question on slide 16, which is could you, if you look at Q3,
your affiliate income from China actually fell slightly despite what looks like a growth in retail sales
units in the country. Could you perhaps just talk me through why that declined?
[Foreign Language] (33:28-33:43)
[Foreign Language] (33:45-34:20)
Right. The retail sales volume of the local subsidiaries increased but at the same time, the model
mix deteriorated. That is to say the small models including Yaris and the Vios increased in the
overall model mix having negative impact on the overall performance. And at the same time, the
selling expenses related spending increased somewhat. So, those have a negative impact on the
earnings of affiliated companies.Thank you. Just a follow-on question. Should we expect it similar for Q4? And I also read that
you've agreed to pay $200 million to a Chinese dealership group. Could you discuss that
payment? And what benefits you get from that payment?
[Foreign Language] (35:10-35:29)
[Foreign Language] (35:29-35:55)
First of all, the likely trend for the fourth quarter is this sort of situation I described in relation –
described as not limited to Q3. We believe that it is likely to continue into the fourth quarter as
well, and, therefore, we're expecting some deterioration in the earnings capability of the joint
venture company in China.
[Foreign Language] (36:24-36:37)
And you also asked about the payment to be made to dealership. As of today, there is no official
decision to that effect made.
[Foreign Language] (36:47-37:22)
In China, the distributors cooperation association have been making efforts to elicit opinions from
their dealership about their trends and conditions which we are very appreciative of. And on this
particular point, our local subsidiary, that is to say, the Toyota Daiichi auto group is placing
particular emphasis upon having good and attentive communication with dealer network. They're
having frequent meetings, making appropriate the volume target as well as extending support in
various ways to dealers.
When should we expect a decision on that?
Could you repeat that question again?
Sorry. When should we expect a decision to be made on that payment?
[Foreign Language] (38:31-38:34)
[Foreign Language] (38:36-39:03)
It is not known if there is any plan of making decision on that point. And if I may repeat myself, the
manufacturers and distributors or dealership do enjoy in growth and also prosperity together. We
work closely together. And, therefore, the Toyota Daiichi auto group is continuing its activities to
have good communication with dealers, engaged in improvement activities while having good
communication with distribution cooperation association, among others, in building good
communication structure with them as well.
Thank you.
Thank you. Next, please.
Yes. Thank you. My first question is regarding your volume outlook. I know that you give a calendar
year – you have given a calendar year forecast for 2015 by region. I wonder if you could remind us
of what that forecast is by region, and then comment on what we might say about the fiscal year
– the next fiscal year outlook.
In other words, eliminating the effect of January through March and looking only at the year-on-
year comparison from April to December, I wonder if you could provide that information for usbecause I know that the Japanese market will be very weak in January through March, and,
therefore, the calendar year number may not be that helpful in estimating what the outlook will
be for your fiscal year next year. Thank you. That's my first question.
[Foreign Language] (40:53-41:37)
[Foreign Language] (41:38-41:52)
Thank you for your question. As we already pointed out, the volume that we have officially
announced is based upon calendar year, and let me repeat those calendar year-based figures
first of all.
[Foreign Language] (42:06-42:23)
First of all, the Japanese domestic market, starting with the market for 2015 including mini
vehicles, we are expecting the market to reach 5.1 million units. And in that general market, we
are planning to sell around 1.45 million units.
[Foreign Language] (42:43-43:06)
Moving on to the U.S. market outlook compared with the previous year, economy in the United
States is doing very strongly and robustly and therefore we are expecting the market to reach
16.7 million units, representing 101% of the previous year's level. And in that, our plan for Toyota
Company's sales is 2.44 million units, 103% of the previous year.
[Foreign Language] (43:39-44:20)
With respect to the European market, we are expecting the Eastern European market to shrink
slightly, whereas Western European market to be expected to achieve moderate growth. So,
considering these two factors, we are expecting the market to reach around 18.4 million units
which is more or less the same level as 2014. And, therefore, we are expecting our sales there to
remain at about the same level as 2014. And for the details, we are planning to announce that
publicly when Geneva Motor Show is held in March.
[Foreign Language] (45:00-45:31)
Amongst Asian markets, let me just refer to major markets both Thailand and Indonesia. Starting
with Thailand, we are expecting a basic tone of recovery of the market. And so, for calendar
2015, we are expecting the market to be around 920,000 units, up 4%. And our sales is
expected to be around 330,000 units.
[Foreign Language] (45:58-46:38)
In Indonesia, we expect a solid market remain for LCGC, that is low-cost green cars, but at the
same time rupiah has depreciated while gasoline subsidy has been eliminated. And therefore,
due to those factors, we are expecting the market for 2015 to remain more or less at the same
level as 2014. That is roughly 1.19 million units. And for our own sales, we are planning to aim at
least the same level of market share that we had in 2014.
[Foreign Language] (47:16-47:50)
Allow me to explain the situation in Brazil next. We are expecting the Brazilian economy to
recover gradually. And so, our expectation for the market is 3.6 million units, which is around 103%
of the previous year's level. In that general context, with respect to our own sales, we areexpecting the strong impact of a new model benefit for newly redesigned Corolla to dissipate
gradually, and therefore we are expecting our sales to be around 182,000 units, which is 93% of
the previous year's level.
[Foreign Language] (48:32-49:10)
Moving on to China, we are expecting growth to somewhat slow down or moderate this year
while still we are expecting the stable growth of the economy overall. And therefore, our outlook
for the Chinese market for 2015 is to be slightly over that in 2014 and our outlook for our own
sales for 2015 is 1.1 million units, which is 107% of 2014's level.
[Foreign Language] (49:45-50:08)
Russia is characterized by extreme instability of economic conditions, as is fully known to you, I'm
sure. And at the same time, the automobile market is changing rather rapidly and precipitously.
And therefore, the market outlook as well as our own sales plan are now under scrutiny at this
point in time and this is all I can say about the Russian situation as of today.
[Foreign Language] (50:37-50:58)
So, I have just given you the calendar year base figures and I do know that your question is
related to the likely outlook of the next fiscal year. But for that, when we announce the financial
results for the full fiscal year, which will be around May of this year, we would like to give you the
detailed explanation and presentation.
[Foreign Language] (51:21-51:59)
For instance, the Japanese market in January-March period last year was characterized by last-
minute demand because right before the expected consumption tax increase scheduled for April
last year, and therefore the market itself reached a very substantial figure.
And so the plan for April and beyond was more or less on the previous year's level. And this
year's January-March period saw a rather substantial decline compared with a very strong
previous year's January-March with a rather large margin decrease.
Okay. Thank you. That's all from me.
Thank you. Next, please.
Thank you for the call and good evening. Two questions, if I might. First of all, the three-year
moratorium on capacity expansion seems to be drawing to a close. And I was wondering if you
could give us an indication of what you are considering in terms of further – or capacity expansion
going forward?
In particular, if you could comment on your plans in China and with regard to Lexus in China. I
know that you've been reluctant to expand or to set up capacity for Lexus in China previously but
now you're the only major luxury maker not to have luxury capacity in China. And I was wondering
what the thinking is with regard to luxury production in China. That's my first question.
[Foreign Language] (53:47-54:39)
[Foreign Language] (54:39-55:22)
Thank you for your question. With respect to the thinking on increase of production capacity, forconstruction of a new plant.
And let me explain to you what we have been doing, what sort of activities we have been
pursuing in this three-year period. We have been maximizing the usage of existing plants and
facilities as well as maximizing utilization and operation of those existing facilities and plants. And
at the same time, we have been pursuing those activities that can result in reduced amount of
CapEx required for the establishment and building of new plants.
[Foreign Language] (56:11-56:58)
And through those activities, we have been pursuing over the three-year period, some results
and benefits are being created. That is to say, if we can fully become confident that
competitiveness of those plants have been enhanced, resulting in changed landscape and
environment of those plants.
Then looking at that very closely, the market conditions and trends, there is a possibility that we
would consider building of a new plant. But even in that case, unlike in the – even in that case, we
would not be resorting to building of a new plant since we're pursuing higher volume as we have
done in the past, but rather, we would incorporate what we have done and learned in the past
three-year period to make the plants as competitive as possible. So, unless the plant is fully
competitive and with stronger competitiveness, we will not be thinking of those new
establishments.
[Foreign Language] (58:08-58:22)
And therefore, as of today, including your question relating to the production capacity of Lexus to
be established in China, nothing has been decided on the establishment any new plants and
facilities.
[Foreign Language] (58:38-59:31)
I do realize that I'm in the middle of responding to a different question, but allow me to correct
the answer I gave you earlier in response to one of the questions relating to the FTMS and its
support of dealership. And allow me to correct what I have just mentioned earlier that is to say
the FTMS, it was announced in 1600 today that FTMS is going to extend CNY 1.24 billion in the
form of business support efforts fund to the dealership there. But since this is a matter relating to
joint venture in that country, for the details at this juncture, I would like to refrain from making any
further comment, and I hope you'll understand that situation.
Okay and thank you. Then with regard to my second question, there have been reports in the
press recently that you are considering an easing of the price reduction pressure on your
suppliers, this is something that's come up a few times over the last few months. Could you
please comment on how you are working with your suppliers with regards to continued price
cutting? It appears as though you were on target in Q3 with your price reduction efforts. And so,
I'm just wondering about the accuracy of this press report.
[Foreign Language] (61:17-61:53)
[Foreign Language] (61:55-62:13)
Thank you for your question. As had been our policy over the years with respect to making
specific comments for the specific transactions with the suppliers, in principle, we would like to
refrain from making any comments. But let me just share with you the situations of our[Foreign Language] (62:39-63:20)
The so called regular price revisions, the discussion covers not just superficial price alone, but
rather with suppliers we jointly consider challenges or issues that need to be addressed in
enhancing competitiveness of manufacturing, production efforts as well. And at the same time,
together with the suppliers, Toyota works closely with them in achieving major improvement
activities in a very well-planned manner, and at the same time in the light of the operating
environment surrounding those companies at any given time while striving to maintain very
attentive communication with them. We have been trying to work with them in strengthening
competitiveness of supply chain overall. So, those are the initiatives we have been engaged in
over many years with a long history.
[Foreign Language] (64:17-64:40)
Furthermore, some part of the raw materials including the steel plate, some are supplied by
Toyota itself and at the same time, based upon certain rules including the impact of exchange
rate fluctuations. In essence, the Toyota bears the portion that stems from market condition
fluctuation. So, those are some of aspects we would like to seek your understanding on.
[Foreign Language] (65:08-65:35)
And we still are studying the current round of price revisions. But at the same time, we believe
that emergence from deflation as well as achieving virtuous cycle of the Japanese economy is of
vital importance to the economy here in Japan as well. So, we, as a corporation, must consider
some of the things it can implement and take action on them. So, we would like to make the best
judgment in this context by considering the overall conditions of our supply chain.
Great. Thank you very much. Very helpful answer.
A - Unverified Participant
Unfortunately, our time is up. Please allow us to conclude today's conference call now. If you
require further information, please contact our IR representative in New York or London. Thank
you very much for joining us today. Good-bye.