Q2 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company. I will now like to hand over to Takano from Toyota, who will
moderate today's conference.
`Nobukazu Takano, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the Fiscal Year 2015 Second
Quarter. I am `Nobukazu Takano, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation. Today,
we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of Toyota Motor
Corporation, and Ms. Morita, our interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is as follows. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Ms. Morita will take over the rest of the
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statement is included on page two of
today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page three. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the first half of the fiscal year ending March 2016. Let me start with
slide five. Compared to the same period of last fiscal year, consolidated vehicle sales for the first
half of this fiscal year decreased by 199,000 units to 4,278,000 units as a result of declining sales
in the regions such as Japan, Asia, and the Middle East despite a solid increase in sales in North
America.
Please see slide six. Consolidated financial results for the first half of the current fiscal year were
net revenues of ¥ 14,091.4 billion, operating income of ¥ 1,583.4 billion, pre-tax income of ¥1,675.1
billion, and net income of ¥ 1,258.1 billion.
Now, I would like to hand the rest of today's presentation to Ms. Morita, our interpreter.
Unverified ParticipantNext, using slide seven, I would like to highlight the major factors, which impacted operating
income year-on-year. Despite decreased vehicle sales and increased expenses mainly to
promote research into cutting edge technologies and TNGA, progress in cost reduction efforts
and other profit improvement activities, in addition to favorable foreign exchange rates
contributed to the increasing operating income by ¥231.4 billion year-on-year.
Please take a look at slide eight. Consolidated financial results for the second quarter of this fiscal
year were net revenues of ¥ 7,103.8 billion, operating income of ¥827.4 billion, pre-tax income of
¥829.8 billion, and net income of ¥611.7 billion. For your information, slide nine summarizes the
major factors which impacted second quarter operating income year-on-year.
Next, I would like to discuss operating income for each region, focusing mainly on the first half
year performance indicated on the left-hand side of each slide. Please take a look at slide 10 for
Japan. In Japan, although the Alphard, Vellfire and the new Sienta drove sales, overall vehicle
sales for the first half decreased by 46,000 units year-on-year to 984,000 units as the mini-
vehicles market fell following an increase in vehicle taxation.
Operating income, nevertheless, increased by ¥239.4 billion year-on-year to ¥958.2 billion as a
result of favorable foreign exchange rates and cost reduction efforts, despite increased
expenses mainly to accelerate research and development activities.
Please look at slide 11. In North America, against the backdrop of continued strength of market
conditions, vehicle sales increased by 18,000 units year-on-year to 1,413,000 units driven by the
Lexus NX and the Highlander in particular.
Operating income excluding valuation gains and losses from interest rate swaps, et cetera,
remained around the same level of the first half of the previous fiscal year at ¥285.7 billion. This
was primarily a result of cost-reduction efforts, et cetera, that contributed to higher profits being
offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates and an increase in labor cost and other expenses.
We have recently started the production of the Lexus ES in Kentucky in the United States. We plan
to enhance our competitiveness through localized production of the Lexus ES in North America.
It's the largest market in the world.
In Europe, on slide 12, first half vehicle sales were down 7,000 units year-on-year to 407,000
units. This was due to continued weakness of Russia and other markets in Eastern Europe despite
increased sales in Western Europe such as Spain and the United Kingdom where the Auris Hybrid
and the Yaris Hybrid performed particularly strongly. Despite cost-reduction efforts, et cetera,
operating income decreased by ¥2.9 billion year-on-year to ¥30.2 billion mainly as the result of
fewer vehicle sales.
Please take a look at slide 13. In Asia, overall vehicle sales for the first half were down 101,000
units year-on-year to 654,000 units. This was due to continued weakness of main markets
namely Thailand and Indonesia, and intensified competition across the region. Nevertheless,
operating income reached ¥244.1 billion, up ¥31.2 billion year-on-year, supported by cost
reduction efforts and favorable foreign exchange rates.
In Asia, we have developed an optimal procurement and production system, mainly in Thailand
and Indonesia, which has grown as global production and supply centers. This enables us to
maintain a solid earnings structure, which is less susceptible to fluctuation from foreign exchange
rates.Although, also it's currently uncertain, we expect that Asian markets will grow as economies
advance over the medium-to-long-term. Therefore, we will continue to promote activities to
strengthen our business foundations such as the roll out of the new IMV models, in order to
increase our sales once demand recovers.
Please move on to slide 14. In other regions, vehicle sales fell by 63,000 units year-on-year to
820,000 for the first half due to decreased sales in the Middle East and Central and South
America, where the market slowed down, mainly due to the effects of lower oil prices and
depreciation of local currencies. Operating income decreased by ¥11 billion year-on-year to ¥66.8
billion, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange rates and increased expenses despite the
positive impact of marketing efforts and other factors.
Next, please look at slide 15 for financial services. Operating income excluding swap valuation
gains and losses for the first half of this fiscal year was ¥180.1 billion, up ¥16.8 billion compared to
the same period of last fiscal year, mainly due to an increase in both lending balance and lending
margin.
Next, please refer to slide 16. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the first half
decreased by ¥4.2 billion year-on-year to ¥161.6 billion, mainly due to lower net income of our
affiliated companies in China. Please note that fiscal year-end of our affiliated companies in China
is in December. Therefore, equity in earnings of these companies for the first half of this fiscal
year reflects their earnings from January through June 2015.
Next, I would like to discuss shareholder return. Please look at slide 17. With regard to the interim
dividend, we would like to propose ¥100 per share. In addition, earlier today our Board of
Directors resolved a share repurchase program of up to ¥150 billion or 23 million shares of our
common stock.
Please refer to slide 18, which compares our shareholder return programs for the current and
previous fiscal years. First, with regard to dividends, the proposed interim dividend for the current
fiscal year represents a payout ratio of 25% as opposed to 21.1% or ¥75 per share interim
dividend for the previous fiscal year. This reflects our intention to improve the balance between
interim and year-end dividends. Second, in this fiscal year, a share repurchase program was
resolved by our Board of Directors at the end of the first half. This reflects our intention to
exercise share repurchase more flexibly.
Next, slide 19 shows the scheduling of our share repurchase programs for the current fiscal year,
for the purpose of providing returns to shareholders, adding the new program of up to 23 million
shares or ¥150 billion to the previously announced program of up to 40 million shares or ¥300
billion that was resolved at the Board of Directors meeting on 8 May. We plan to repurchase up to
63 million shares or ¥450 billion altogether during the current fiscal year.
Please look at slide 20. With regards to treasury stock, we plan to continue to hold approximately
300 million shares in order to maintain flexibility of management and capital expenses and cancel
excess shares beyond this level in principal. Hence we plan to cancel 80 million shares of treasury
stocks during the current fiscal year.
We intend to enhance our corporate value by steadily implementing initiatives for sustainable
growth. At the same time, we will strive to develop long-term trusted relationship with our
shareholders through stable and sustainable dividends. In addition, we intend to repurchase
shares flexibly as a means of shareholder return. In this way, we would like to enhance return of
value to our shareholders.Now, I would like to move on to discuss our outlook for the full fiscal year. Please look at slide 22.
With regards to our consolidated vehicle sales for the full fiscal year, we are reducing our
previous forecast by 200,000 units to 8.75 million units due to expected sales decrease in
emerging markets such as Asia, Africa and the Middle East, where market conditions currently
lack visibility, and in Japan where the mini car market remains sluggish.
We plan to successively launch new models which will represent our pursuit of ever better cars,
including the Lexus RX which is progressive in every aspect including quality, design, driving and
safety; and the new Prius, which is even more fuel-efficient and truly fun to drive.
Please take a look at slide 23. We revised our assumptions of foreign exchange rates to ¥115 per
$1 and ¥130 per €1 from October onwards, thus adopting ¥118 per $1 and ¥133 per €1 on a full-year
basis. Based on this, we are revising down our forecast of net revenues by ¥300 billion to ¥27.5
trillion from our previous forecast in August. Our forecast of operating income, pre-tax income
and net income remain unchanged.
Next, please look at slide 24 for an analysis of our latest operating income forecast in comparison
to our August forecast. We maintain our previous operating income forecast of ¥2.8 trillion. This
factors in the assumed decrease in vehicle sales of 200,000 units and increase in expenses for
innovation to develop attractive products and services. This also factors in the actual foreign
exchange rate and the progress in our cost reduction efforts during the first half of the current
fiscal year.
For the automotive industry to grow further, various challenges need to be addressed such as
rapid advancement of technologies including IT and requirements of both the global
environment, as well as safety and security. To growth steadily each year with true
competitiveness, Toyota will continue to strengthen its profit structure through gross margin
improvement per vehicle and control of its costs, while leading innovation to address
environmental, safety and security requirements, and supporting the development of a new
mobility society.
We will continue to embrace challenges in order to realize a future mobility society. For instance,
challenges toward sustainable society through a substantial reduction of CO2 emissions from
vehicles and manufacturing plants, global recycling of water and other resources and major
conservation activities.
Challenges for achieving a future mobility society, where anyone can move safely, smoothly and
freely through safety and automated driving technologies including automated driving on
highways to be commercialized around 2020.
Challenges for new value creation such as research and development of an artificial intelligence,
which is expected to revolutionize automated driving and robotics technologies and, thus, lay the
foundation for future industrial technologies.
Finally, please take a look at slide 29, for the outlook of research & development expenses,
CapEx and depreciation expenses. Please note that our latest forecast for R&D expenses is up
¥10 billion from the previous forecast. As for CapEx and depreciation expenses, our forecast
remains unchanged.
This concludes my presentation on the financial results for the second quarter of the fiscal year
ending March 2016. Thank you very much for your attention.
`Nobukazu Takano, Project General Manager, Accounting DivisionThank you. Now, we will gladly take your questions, but only up to two questions per person,
please. Further questions may be posted later if time allows. You do not have to give your name.
Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Takano.
Your voice is so soft that it's hard to hear your line. Can you speak out please so that we can hear
you properly, please?
Hello.
Hello.
Hi. Thanks very much and thanks for the full report on the quarter. I just have a couple of quick
questions. The first one is on slide 24, you've lowered your contribution for volume mix for the
year. But if I'm right, the year-on-year contribution from volume mix is still positive. And yet, you're
looking for lower volumes year-on-year? So, I wonder if you could give us some clarity on where
the positive contribution comes from in terms of mix and pricing.
My second question actually relates to – you've lowered your volume targets again for the year in
a number of markets including Japan. Yet I noticed the production targets for Japan is still flat
from the prior forecast. Can I take that to mean that you're responding to the sort of improved
competitiveness of Japanese production, at least, in the yen-dollar rates? And that you've chosen
to take all the reduction in the forecasts in overseas facilities?
Thank you for your question. Allow me to, first of all, confirm the first part of your question. You
asked a question about – on page 24. And if I may just give you the factors both for boosting the
outlook as well as reducing that, impacting the outlook for the full fiscal year compared with that
for the previous fiscal year. That has answered your question?
Possibly, yeah. I mean, my calculation suggests that volume mix, you've lowered it by ¥65 billion
from ¥130 billion, so positive ¥65 billion, so that reduction of ¥65 billion. My question is, it's still
year-on-year plus ¥65 billion but given you're expecting a decline in volume, where does the
positive ¥65 billion come from, is it mix or pricing or how are you managing to get a positive
number for the lower volume?
Let me respond to that question. Compared with the same period the previous year, I will give
you the split of ¥65 billion and that is generated by sales and marketing efforts. And as you've
correctly pointed out, the sales volume is down 220,000 units year-on-year. That means impact
of ¥155 billion.
At the same time, there has been some contribution coming from improved model mix. From this
perspective, the volume of lower profit per vehicle models such as those models distributed in
Asia or Daihatsu brand vehicles will decrease and therefore, that will contribute ¥95 billion
improvement coming from the model mix.
In terms of other factors, there are various sales-related expenses that support the sales
activities. However, the efforts to improve pricing surpasses that increase in sales expenses. So,
in aggregate, that makes the positive ¥90 billion contribution, approximately.Furthermore, various activities as to increase of sales of service parts have been going. So,
including that, that alone boosts the revenue by ¥30 billion. So including all those factors, the total
contribution of ¥65 billion approximately stems from sales and marketing efforts.
In terms of your second question, while we did not revise down the production volume in Japan,
but the retail volume has been revised upward, and you're asking about the difference between
these two. Actually, the production in Japan is 3.25 million units. We have been constantly saying
that we would like to keep the production in Japan above the 3 million units. And therefore,
during the current fiscal year as well, we will be producing 3.25 million units here in Japan.
Moving on to the retail sales volumes here in Japan, the model for which the production was
beefed up is now scheduled to be leading to the actual retail sales during the current fiscal year.
And factoring that in, we have revised upwards this forecast by 50,000 units. And the figures of
the volume I have just cited includes both Toyota brand and Lexus brand vehicles.
Thank you.
Thank you. Next, please.
I had two questions. First one is, can you tell us what your current level of net industrial cash is and
how that compares to your current view on target amount of net industrial cash on hold? And the
second question is that you referred to currently some increased costs as a result of the
implementation of TNGA. Can you give us a sense if there are currently a certain amount of one-
off costs related to that that will go away? And if so, roughly how much? Or has just certain costs
permanently increased because of TNGA? Thank you.
Thank you for your question. As of the end of September this year, the amount of net cash on
hand totaled around ¥7.8 trillion. We have been saying over the years that given the very
changeful nature of the automotive industry, we would like to keep at least the amount
equivalent to three months sales revenue as cash on hand. And from that perspective, the actual
amount equivalent to three months worth of sales is ¥6.9 trillion.
Furthermore more recently, we are increasingly telling ourselves that we are going to embrace
numerous challenges going forward. That is to say, for those challenges that we will be taking up
in the future, we would like to spend money and make proactive investments. Those areas
include our environmental efforts, efforts relating to safety and peace of mind of the drivers and
customers, the technologies in the connected areas or research and development into artificial
intelligence.
And the issuance of Type A ASX shares that we did earlier this year is also partly for this particular
purpose. And therefore, if we add those required investment or investments that we are going
to make going forward to ¥6.9 trillion I mentioned earlier, that will represent more than the target
level of net cash that we would like to hold on hand.
I think your second question was related to TNGA and where the increased cost relating to TNGA
will take place whether they are temporary, one-time in nature or none. Those TNGA-related
expenses will be found under two major items, one related to the research and development
related expenses. In conjunction with TNGA, we are engaged in development activities in a
concentrated manner, focusing on development of new platforms, the new engines, as well as
major components of transmissions among others and those would represent some increase in
research and development expenses.However, this TNGA itself incorporates concept of commonization or usage of same components
and parts across many different models. And therefore, the research and development, we are
conducting right now on TNGA will produce benefits, which will enhance efficiency of units and
engines and models developed going forward.
And therefore, this should result in enhanced efficiency of research and development expenses.
And we are somehow expecting that TNGA will reduce research and development expenses by
around 20% going forward. Furthermore, we would like to proactively invest the resources or
expenses relating to research and development that's released as a result of enhanced
efficiency into new sorts of research and development initiatives, oriented toward the creation of
more affluent and fulfilling society in the future. Another item on which we will see some
increased cost impact from TNGA would be CapEx.
As a result of switching over to these TNGA and the newly developed models and engines, that
will result in temporary increase in CapEx relating to those switchovers. However, here again, as is
the case of research and development, the TNGA would also enhance commonization and usage
of the same parts across many models. And the – or in other cases, the same or similar models
will be produced on the same line.
At the same time, those lines once developed in Japan will be increasingly applied and built up in
other plants throughout the world. So, once we start building up the second or third production
lines, the TNGA should result in significant savings, of course, involved in those CapEx.
And therefore, that will allow the so-called bridge production across many plants throughout the
world, that is to say producing the same or similar models in multiple locations or the similar
models can be produced in the same line. And therefore, here, again, we are expecting benefits
from TNGA reducing CapEx.
At the same time, we will continue with our efforts of improving costs overall, that is to say
reducing direct materials cost, producing the cost improvement of approximately ¥300 billion
every year. And therefore, through those continued cost improvement efforts, we intend to
enhance the constitution of our company overall.
Thank you for taking my question.
Thank you. Next, please.
Hello. Thank you very much for your presentation today. I have a question with regards to the
outlook for China sales, pricing and profitability. I noticed in your full year forecast, you actually
revised down slightly your equity method income estimate. And I wanted to know whether that's
China as well. And my second question is with regards to other emerging markets outside of
China. I mean, these markets have globally been quite weak. And I was wondering whether you
were starting to see some signs of bottoming out in Asia, Latin America or the Middle East?
Thank you for your question. Let me start with the outlook of China, first about the volume. We
are expecting the Chinese market this year to be more or less at the same level as of that last
year. That's our focus for the market. With respect to our own sales volume between January and
October this year on cumulative terms, we have been able to increase sales significantly as
represented by the level of 110% of the previous year's level. And, furthermore, we set for
ourselves the sales target for China at 1.1 million units for this year. And at this moment, we think
that we'll be able to achieve that target.From the perspective of profitability, on the other hand, as you may be fully aware of the
composition especially in terms of pricing has intensified in the Chinese market. And in terms of
taxation, some incentives or benefits have been given to vehicles with engine displacement of 1.6
liters or less. And that resulted in gradual shift in models to those smaller vehicles with lower
profit margins. And so, the overall proportion, relative proportion of the smaller models have
increased, thus putting a downward pressure on profitability. And therefore, the downward
revision of the outlook of our earnings based upon equity method is primarily due to the impact
stemming from the profitability of the China business.
About your second question that is earnings outlook for emerging markets. First of all, with
respect to Asia, at this point we are expecting that the profit more or less equivalent to that of
the previous year is likely to be generated in Asia this year. For Asia, we are expecting a
significant reduction in sales volume, which is a factor depressing the earnings. But, at the same
time, we have been making accumulated efforts for cost improvements. And especially in
Thailand and Indonesia, we are producing vehicles not just for the domestic markets in these two
countries, but also for export markets as well in their business. And at the same time, for
emerging countries, the depreciation of currencies such as Thai baht and Indonesian rupiah is a
factor in beefing up profit for export business. And therefore, we kept flat the earnings projection
for the entire Asia.
Moving on to Central and South America, as you already know, the currencies in this part of the
world has weakened with inflation increasing significantly. And these two factors combined
increases overall costs significantly. And we are conducting various initiatives to increase as much
as possible the selling price that we can put on the vehicles. But the earnings are not likely to be
able to keep up with the previous year's level. And therefore, we are expecting some reduction
in the earnings.
Thank you very much.
Thank you. Next please.
Yes. Thank you very much for the opportunity to ask the questions. Two questions. First of all, in
the first half, your operating profit margin was 11.2% rising to 11.6% in Q2 alone, yet you're looking
for a 9.1% operating profit margin in the second half. And I was wondering if you could explain
what you're expecting to deteriorate so significantly to bring the operating profit margin down in
the second half.
Secondly, I'd like to explore a bit IMV. Could you give us an update on IMV sales volumes? And I
note that in Asia, the operating profit rose significantly in Q2 despite a decline in volume. Was this
largely due to IMV or were there other factors that contributed to that as well? Thank you very
much.
Thank you for your questions. First of all, let me refer to the factors impacting both positively and
negatively on our outlook for both first and second half of the year. Now, first factor is exchange
rate. Our exchange rate assumption for the second half is ¥115 to the dollar and ¥130 to the euro.
The actual exchange rate during the first half was ¥122 to the dollar and ¥135 to the euro. And
therefore, we formulated this earnings forecast assuming a significant appreciation of the yen.
In relation to the U.S. dollar and euro, there are Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Russian
rubles. And for those coming up with a forecast of a profit and loss, we assumed significant
appreciation of the yen compared with the first half. And therefore, the difference between the
first half and the second half, ¥210 billion stems from the exchange rate changes in the negativeMoving on to the sales, we are expecting volume to increase by 190,000 units in the second half
compared with the first half. And this would add ¥130 billion approximately for the earnings of the
second half. But at the same time, sales expenses will likewise increase and therefore netting
them out. We are expecting approximately ¥65 billion coming from the sales efforts.
Moving on to cost improvement efforts, which we'll continue to push forward in the second half
as well. And as a result compared with the first half, we are expecting ¥30 billion added to the
overall profit stemming from cost improvements.
With respect to the other expenses, we are expecting a increase in depreciation, labor expenses
and also general SG&A. And furthermore, in calculating the expected profit and loss, because of
the assumed exchange rate, which represents any yen depreciation, the translation difference will
result in the negative impact in overall.
So, adding all those factors into consideration, we are expecting approximately ¥250 billion to be
depressed or to be subtracted from the earnings from this particular factor in the second half.
Moving on to your second question relating to IMV models, we launched the new IMV model in
Thailand, but because of the economic slowdown in Thailand and also the shrinkage of the
market overall in Thailand that notably impacted the IMV model volume.
And looking at the automotive market conditions on the monthly basis between June and
September of this year, the economic slowdown in Thailand continues year-on-year, which places
the market size to be around 80% or so in the previous year's level. The market has not
recovered to the 90% level.
In these very difficult market conditions, the IMV was aligned, but compared with the previous
year's level, it has exceeded 100% or doing pretty well. Between June and August, it
represented 105% to 106% of the previous year's level. And in September alone, it exceeded
110%. And therefore, IMV model clearly is very well received by the customers. Now, as the
volume increases, we are expecting IMV models to make a contribution to the bottom line as
well.
Okay. Thank you. But can you also explain the increase in profitability in Asia in Q2 given the
decline in volumes?
It might sound a bit redundant from the previous explanation. But in addition to continued cost
improvement efforts, the depreciation of the Thai baht or Indonesian rupiah positively affects the
export business from this part of the world, boosting profit on the export side. And this helped
the profitability in Asia in this period.
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Nobukazu Takano, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Unfortunately, our time is up. Please allow us to conclude today's conference call now.
If you require further information, please contact our IR representative in New York or London.
Thank you very much for joining us today. Good-bye.