Q3 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. Our first question is from the line of `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) of HSBC. Please go ahead Horst
Schneider, your line is open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Yeah, thanks very much. It's Horst from HSBC. I have got three questions, please. `First, which operational actions can efficiently guide us up to 2020? Second, and I would say `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) in of all, I am
still puzzled about the outlook for Q4. I mean, you have stated very clearly that the costs will be
higher in all segments in Q4 but, at the same time, you have got probably an improving pricing,
better FX gains, and maybe also the mix by the 7 Series improve a little bit. So therefore, my first
question is, how should we think about Q4, will that be, as in the previous year, the weakest
quarter in terms of margin, or have you seen the bottom finally in Q2 `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) year? So that's number
one.
Then on, second question is on 2016 already a little bit. I mean, you mentioned also that you
launched the X1, the 7 Series and, at the same time, you've also then the little bit weaker
momentum probably on the 3 and 5 Series and X3. So I want to know, you expect `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) vital sets
to (30:34) solid growth in 2016, or it's too early to talk about that?
And then the third question is again on R&D. I just want to know if there is something that you
expected all the time? I was also always assuming that you stay in the range of 5% to 5.5% in
terms of R&D to `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company, but now since you say you are on the same level as 2014, it means that
you end the year probably with a ratio of above 5.5%. So maybe you can specify that a little bit.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. Thank you very much, Horst. I think we start with Mr. Eichiner. Fritz, please go ahead.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Hi, Horst. So I think you made already a lot of points, and I really agree with what you said. So it's
true we're expecting higher cost in quarter four, and you are aware that many projects in R&D are
finalized in the final quarter, in Q4, and that is one of the reasons that we have kind of a ramp-up
in cost. If that's something we experienced now over the last couple of years, and we are
expecting the same development based on our plans for `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) year, so there's a certain costburden coming in on the origin (31:57) of our pricing on the pricing side, we think it should be fairly
stable, because new cars are contributing now more than in the third quarter.
So the 7 Series will play a role, X1 is ramping up, and new MINI models do the same. Having said
that, that means that we are expecting good volume in the fourth quarter as well, that should
offset the cost to a certain extent and pricing, as I said, stable. So, overall, I think we will see a
similar development than last year. I don't see that the margin will improve in the first quarter.
That is from my expectation, not the case because, as I said, fourth quarter always has a highly
dampening effect from cost. And overall, I hope it contributes as much that it will allow us to
achieve our guidance target. So that's what we can say today. Everything else is known, positive
effect on FX is expected, but that's nothing new for you, as you are aware of all those elements
in our EBIT bridge.
While taking about 2016 is really a bit early, and actually understanding, first we have to make our
numbers for 2015 before we talk about 2016. So far, we don't see that the gross momentum of
BMW should stop in 2016, that's the only thing I can tell you, and that is based on our product
portfolio development. That's the only thing I can say so far for now; as I said, it's too early.
R&D, yes, you are right, we have actually a peak in R&D spending that has to do with the product
portfolio development and, as already mentioned, higher capitalization effects coming from the 7
Series, for example, played a role `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) year. So, at the end of the day, we think we are coming
close to the range 5.5%, but it could be that, as we said, is more at a level of last year, which
would be 5.7%. Anywhere in that territory should be fine, and I think that's a solid guidance.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Can you just quick add-on, when you say it will not improve the margin in Q4, you mean that year-
on-year or versus Q3 `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) year?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
I was talking Q3, because you mentioned whether you should think about that `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) would
turnaround now, and we don't see that the margin is going up in Q4 compared to Q3. And I don't
think it's going up compared to Q4 of 2014 either.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
All right. That's clear, thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much, `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker). Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is over to the line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI of Evercore ISI. Please go ahead, sir, your
line is open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
Yes, good afternoon, everyone. There are two questions, more on the strategic side. The first
one for Dr. Eichiner. I wonder and you've talked about `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) before, whether you can confirm that
given the upcoming challenges over the coming years, and you are now a bit further ahead in
your strategic thinking, whether you can over time for the next say five years or so, really stay inyour R&D and CapEx planning ranges i.e. 5% to 5.5% cash R&D ratio at below 7% CapEx or
whether that's a risk that these might move up?
And then, one question for Krüger. You are now doing all your strategic work and I wonder how
you are integrating or thinking about shareholder value creation in the upcoming 10 years and in
order the work that you are currently conducting. And I am asking that because I am a little bit
concerned that we will hear a lot of buzzwords (36:09) you have a very little tangible planning
assumptions and facts for your shareholders to see how you will create value moving forward?
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Good thank you very much. I think we start with Mr. Eichiner and then `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead.. Please go ahead.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, hello so you know I think the basic element in the ratios is the top-line but we have to look at
revenue development, but it's clearly part of the ratio. And as long as our assumption is valid that
BMW with the product momentum with the portfolio development we have planned to undertake
going forward we will generate growth on the volume and revenue side as long as `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) is the
case. I think the ratio should be fine. Because growing revenue would allow us to grow for
example our R&D spendings accordingly. If `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) would not be the case then maybe we would
have to think about the ratios.
So far, as I mentioned, we think `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) is something we should achieve going forward. And we need
more spendings on the R&D side because as you know the regulation sets up tough
requirements for us all around the world and with a latest discussion on diesels and so on and so
forth `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) will be a burden that will not go away and it would be even harder going forward. So you
need room to maneuver, that means the growth on revenue side and then the ratio should be
fine. That's how we look at it and that is reflected in our long range plans as well.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead..
A - Harald Krüger
Arndt, just as I mentioned before in our strategy process, we are consistently approaching
simultaneously two time periods. The one is until 2020 where we clearly focus on operational
excellence. How can we improve the business? What can we do better? How can we earn the
money which is important to invest into the future? The other part is what is required to remain
successful beyond 2025 which is where our business is and the automotive industry is `changing, bringing with it new opportunities and groundbreaking developments. In `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) time of.
And we need to do things both parallel, so operational excellence, clearly focusing on profitability
and on the other side investing at the right time into the future for future competitiveness and
that's what we will ensure in our strategy.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. Next question, please?Operator
We are now on to the line of Charles Winston of Redburn Partners. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Redburn Partners LLP `
Thank you. Yeah, hi it's Charles from Redburn. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the coming years, the automotive industry will be. Couple of quick ones and then
just a strategic one. Given last year in the fourth quarter, I think there was an element of the
SG&A spend included some of the payments you made to the Chinese dealers to help them out.
If those payments are not repeated in the fourth quarter `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) year, would it be right to actually
potentially expect a decline in SG&A in the fourth quarter or will some other cost offset that
potential decline?
And then just quickly on production, fourth quarter production clearly will be below `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company. `Again, `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) is a new record. At 9%, the EBIT margin in the Automotive segment was within our
that's normal as we've seen in the past few years, but would fourth quarter production be above
or below where we were in `the second quarter, pricing in the central European used car `markets, in particular, performed slightly better whereas increased competition in the U.S. increased slightly. In North, that would be useful guide. And just very finally,
has anything changed in the comments we've seen from the EU in particular in recent weeks
about RDE testing and things. Has anything materially changed in the testing or regulatory
`environment, we have set ourselves ambitious targets for 2015: A solid increase in Group `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company; a on emissions that would sort of changed your thinking or change your expectation
about cost of that? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much, Charles. So we'll start with `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead. and then Mr. Eichiner.
A - Harald Krüger
I would like to start with the EU testing cycle first. The BMW Group clearly supports the
introduction of new regulations to bridge the gap between the so-called Rear Driving Emissions
and the test bench and `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) will create clarity for the consumer and the industry, yeah. And the
targets are definitely highly ambitious and will require significant investment and development
efforts, but we can definitely focus on that, we will fulfill the legal roles and definitely, will
definitely support what is on the table, yeah. Nothing has changed there so far.
Secondly, the questions on the production below `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company in quarter four, it will be below the `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company
figure which is the normal procedure because quarter four always is in some countries on the
safe side of highest thinking like `the U.S., every sixth e-car is an i3. In Norway, the i3 accounts for an impressive one in five BMWs, for example. And we sometimes have auto production
changeover over Christmas where we stop production for technical reasons for preparations for
maintenance, so production is normally in the fourth quarter below `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. Thank you very much. Last part of the question was about Q4 payments to China dealers.
Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well basically the cost issue in Q4 is more an issue of cost in R&D so on and so forth, it's not so
much an issue of dealer payment. The dealer bonus payment is part of our bonus arrangement
with the dealers if they meet the targets we set up for quarter four then we will pay a bonus but
that's already calculated into our guidance and expectations is nothing extra.Sorry, can I just very quickly come back on the production question? Would it be above or below
what you did in 2Q? So I understand it will literally be below `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company but obviously 2Q was quite a bit
low than 3Q and I am just trying to get an idea as to where 4Q sits between those two ranges?
Thank you.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
So thank you very much. That is not so easy, but I mean I need to check the details provided it
should be on the same level as maybe Q2 because Q2 and Q4, Q2 is normally for our production
wise including some periods where we've moved into the summer and Q4 we're preparing on
the one side `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company in Q4 and on the other one for Q1 next year. So overall it looks like it might be
on the same level but I need to check the details for you, so sorry.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay, thank you very much Charles Winston. Next question please.
Operator
We are over to the line of `Richard Hilgert, Morningstar Research of Morningstar. Please go ahead. Richard, your line is
open.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Morningstar Research `
Thanks for taking my question. I was curious if you could talk a little bit more about China please. I
understand that the measures have been taken to correct inventories over there and that things
are kind of the new normal at `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) point but given the degree with which these issues of party
members and having some type of scrutiny over how much they are spending what kind of
wealth they have. I'm curious to know has the strategy in China really changed any and has there
been more of a slowdown in volume?
And if you could maybe talk a little bit about how it is that you go about determining how much is
actually produced in China? How much is imported from Germany into China? And what's the
distribution point dealership strategy going forward over there? If you could be a little bit more
detailed on what the strategy is going to look like going forward?
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much Richard. Mr. Eichiner please.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Many questions. So, I will answer as much as possible. So, first of all of course proactive
inventories because we have the CVR planning our production based on `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company forecast or
expectations. So, we are not doing it in a way that we first produce and then think about selling,
now it's all based on `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company forecast for the coming period and then we produce. Of course. we
have a longer lead time for production coming out of Germany. So, that was and as market
slowed down significantly more than expected in the first half of the year, we had to correct, so
that's what we did.
So, we adjusted production and now the inventory level should be better balanced. Having said
that, in the meantime we had to ramp-up because new cars are coming now, so think about the
locally produced 3 Series, the 3 Series experienced a face lift Lifecycle-Impulse and we had to run
out the Bri face lifted cars now and bringing in the new ones. 7 Series had to be ramped up, MINIshad to be ramped up, so that is something that played a role so far and will play a role in the
fourth quarter where we want to sell them off. So that was the reason why production was higher
in the first three months, the first three quarters and now production should be significantly lower
in the fourth quarter and with the influence on working capital. So, that's how we look at it and
that's how it's managed. So, the share of the locally produced cars is fairly 60% and 40% are
roughly imported, so that's the ratio we are working on those days.
`Now, I would like to talk about our capital expenditure and development activities., you asked again about the strategy in China, whether we have to change the strategy, I
think to a certain extent we have, why, because the normalization is taking place, has taken place
and we are confronted now with a slowing down demand with normalization of pricing and things
like that. And we have to take care that the business model there is still robust and sustainable
and that means we have to work a lot with dealers. They have to change their modules in the
past. They are only focused on new car `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company. This is now a bit more stressful as the competition
is tougher and we have to build up additional pillars for them to generate solid income stream in
the after `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company area.
In used car field we are financing products and things like that. So that is something where we
have to consider changes. And the Internet is playing a more and more bigger role in China as
well. Well those are just to mention a few challenges that we are focusing on.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Morningstar Research `
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. Richard. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. Tim, your
line is open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
Yes, thank you very much for taking my questions. There would be two please; the first one is on
your mix and pricing. If I remember correctly, you expected that not only `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company momentum will
improve but also the mix with the 7 Series and the X1 introduction so on so forth. It's probably a
bit too early to draw a real conclusion here but could you share perhaps some thoughts on the
initial reception of the 7 Series in the market when it comes to pricing, for example, versus the S-
Class in China where it was recently lagging a bit if I understand that correctly?
And then obviously on the same point, Mercedes is starting to talk very positive on the E-Class
obviously and I understand very well that that is a segment below the 7 Series usually, but it
seems to have a lot of new technology features when it comes to autonomous driving and
connectivity capability, for example. Do you expect `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) to add more pressure on the new 7 Series
next year? And then obviously, also on the older 5 Series going forward?
And then the second question, just sorry for being a pain, coming back to that, but with all the
costs and thoughts that you just discussed about for the final quarter, can you actually rule out
that you will be below your 8% to 10% margin corridor in the Automotive segment in Q4? Thank
you.
A - Unverified ParticipantThank you very much. This question will answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Okay, now let me start with mix and pricing. So basically, we've seen a slight improvement of mix
in the third quarter with strong `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company, especially of X products, right. The 7 Series `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company were not
yet reflected heavily in the third quarter, but they should come in in fourth quarter and going
forward. `Now, I would like to talk about our capital expenditure and development activities., pricing effects of 7 Series versus S-Class is too early to talk about `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59). So far what
we see is that the 7 Series is very well received. We are happy with the test, with all the
information on the media and the feedbacks from many, many `customers, 9.9% more than in the same period of last year.. So it gives us every
confidence to believe that the 7 Series is really a great product and will deliver what we are
expecting. So that's what we know so far.
`Now, I would like to talk about our capital expenditure and development activities., your question about margins, basically we are guiding the whole year, that is 8% to 10%. We
are not guiding quarters. So I cannot give you a number for the fourth quarter.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. And the next question, please.
Operator
We now are over to Fraser Hill of Bank of `America, it remained largely unchanged. Credit risks did not show any substantial changes either. Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead Fraser. Your line
is open.
Q - `Fraser E. Hill, Bank of `America, it remained largely unchanged. Credit risks did not show any substantial changes either. Merrill Lynch `
All right, good afternoon. It's Fraser Hill from Bank of `America, it remained largely unchanged. Credit risks did not show any substantial changes either.. Just two questions from me,
actually, a bit of a clarification. On the pricing sort of the equation, (50:06) I think at the Q2 stage,
you moved your expectations for the year to 50 to 100 basis points of a headwind. What do you
think – today you're talking about sort of stabilization into Q4. Is that kind of sequentially relative
to where pricing was for you in Q3, and therefore are we still in `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) 50 to 100 basis points range,
or is pricing actually a little bit better than maybe you thought at Q2?
And then on the other cost changes, looks like (50:49) step up in that `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) year is – for the Auto
division – is going to be similar to last year, sort of €600 million or so. Should we be expecting
higher numbers in the next couple of years, given the challenges you're talking about, technology
challenges and other factors, or have you got mitigating savings against those, just some idea of
the direction of that? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much, Fraser. Mr. Eichiner, please.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, I think the pressure on pricing came already in the first half of the year. So, and it should now
stay on that level in the fourth quarter. At the end of the day, I think, it is – definitely in the range
of 50 to 100 basis points. So the burden is more or less materialized, if you want. So – and as I
said, we are not expecting further deterioration in the fourth quarter. The reasons are the good
product momentum that is coming in, so that should at least stabilize the situation, but I am not
expecting big improvements same point in time, as the volume of the first quarter is high. So,
that is how we look at pricing.Then your question about the cost changes. I have to refer to what we said already, and what
Harald Krüger said. I mean, we try to really manage our cost base going forward and adjust in
order to protect our profitability targets, but that is one element to it. The future cost coming out
of strategy number one are leveling out, but you know we are in the middle of a new strategy
discussion, and it's not yet clear what is coming out of `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59). So it's a bit early to look too far into
the future. So I think – we should be able to tell you more about `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) in the first quarter of 2016.
Q - `Fraser E. Hill, Bank of `America, it remained largely unchanged. Credit risks did not show any substantial changes either. Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
So, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have time for two more questions. Please.
Operator
In that case, the penultimate question is from the line of Marc Tonn at Warburg Research. Please
go ahead, Marc. Your line is open.
Q - `Marc-René Tonn, Warburg Research GmbH
Yes. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the coming years, the automotive industry will be. Marc Tonn from Warburg Research. I have a question a bit regarding 2016. I
assume that, given your very long-term hedging with regard to foreign exchange, that you have
probably not have seen, let's say, all the benefit from the depreciation of the Euro compared to
Dollar and Renminbi in the current year. But if you can give us some kind of let's say feeling on
how much more there might be for 2016 and 2017, if spot rates remain where they are? Thank
you.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much, Marc. Fritz?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, as we said, a bit too early to talk in detail about 2016, but you asked about the FX effect and
basically, what I can tell you is, it should not be a major headwind going forward into 2016.
Q - `Marc-René Tonn, Warburg Research GmbH
Thanks.
A - Unverified Participant
Next question please.
Operator
The ultimate question for today comes from the line of `Frank Biller, Landesbank Baden-Württemberg (Broker) at LBBW. Please go ahead
Frank, it's yours.
Q - `Frank Biller, Landesbank Baden-Württemberg (Broker) `
Yes, hello. Thanks for taking my question. Actually it's three quick ones, here the one is on based
on the outlook, here you talked about a tougher competition in U.S. I was wondering what'shappened here in `the U.S., every sixth e-car is an i3. In Norway, the i3 accounts for an impressive one in five BMWs Is it a special BMW thing or is the whole market a bit more competitive
and what does that mean for the margins?
The other thing is on diesel drivetrains maybe you can give us an outlook here what your
expectation is in the share ratio of diesel engines in the next couple of years, not talking about
Volkswagen or BMW, just talking about the whole market especially in Europe. And the other thing
is also marketwise, what is your growth expectations for the Chinese market in the next couple of
years and especially for the premium market against the mass market?
A - Unverified Participant
So thank you very much, Frank. We'll start with the diesel question and with `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead..
A - Harald Krüger
`First, which operational actions can efficiently guide us up to 2020? Second, and I would say `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) in of all, as I mentioned before, we don't see any change currently in the customer behavior of
not buying diesel. So currently, we see pretty stable diesel demand but it's on the other side
quite early to say because some of the orders normally have a run-rate of two or three months
ahead so maybe in the next weeks we'll have some more knowledge about that.
To give you some overall figures, in Europe the BMW Group is selling roundabout 80% of its new
car `sales, revenues and earnings for the first nine months in a challenging environment. The company are diesel. So 73% are in Germany and in `the U.S., every sixth e-car is an i3. In Norway, the i3 accounts for an impressive one in five BMWs it is 6%. So in `the U.S., every sixth e-car is an i3. In Norway, the i3 accounts for an impressive one in five BMWs it represents
approximately around 20,000 vehicles and that percentage is still not a high number for
compared to `the U.S., every sixth e-car is an i3. In Norway, the i3 accounts for an impressive one in five BMWs market compared to what we sell in the United States. So that's the overall
picture of the diesel in Europe and then `the U.S., every sixth e-car is an i3. In Norway, the i3 accounts for an impressive one in five BMWs So first feedback so far we haven't seen any
impact from the `customers, 9.9% more than in the same period of last year. on not ordering diesel.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you very, `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead. and the second part will be answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well your question about competition in U.S. and expectations for China. Both is related to each
other. So what we've seen so far is as the Chinese market was slowing down and the exchange
rate was more favorable to all OEMs, so everybody tried to get the utmost out of `the U.S., every sixth e-car is an i3. In Norway, the i3 accounts for an impressive one in five BMWs
market. I mean that was something we've seen. And the market went up to – is going up to 17
million cars `this, we have achieved notable results in our current test cycles and reduced real (04:59) year that's at least our expectation which is a peak. And therefore it is very
competitive because everybody of course tried to compensate a bit the shortfalls in the Chinese
market. That's the reason why U.S. is so competitive those days compensating China and
favorable exchange rates are driving it, that's what I am saying.
`Now, I would like to talk about our capital expenditure and development activities. growth expectations for China, we always said that double-digit growth rates are not
sustainable because it is running to an exponential function and that is not something that will
materialize. So and we already guided that our expectation is that the market will come down to
5% to 7% average growth rate in premium sector. That is our long term expectation. It came
faster than we thought that's of course part of the 2015 story but as I said long term we think it
will be 5% to 7% gross market in premium segment.
A - Unverified Participant
So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us today and we wish you all a pleasant
day. Bye, bye and thank you very much.