Q3 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's Q3 results analyst
conference.
Before I hand the call over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The
company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants of this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operation and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties that may be influenced by factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements. Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and
information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update
forward-looking statements.
I'll now hand the call over to Mr. `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, everyone. I'm `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to the year to date and the
third quarter 2016 results conference call and webcast for investors and analysts. The
presentation is also posted online for you to download. We plan to spend about half an hour on
the presentation and then leave plenty of time for Q&A. In total, we have a full hour together. If
you want to ask questions, you can get in the queue now by pressing *1. There's also an option to
ask questions as part of the webcast.
Please turn to slide 2. This is the usual Safe Harbor statement.
Moving to slide 3. This is the agenda. Today, I'm joined by `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical, Executive Vice President
for Global Portfolio and Product Strategy, Medical Affairs, and Corporate Affairs. Today marks a
special welcome to `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical, who recently took over our strategic marketing function fromLuke Miels, who is now responsible for the European business. `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical was previously Head
of International. I have also here with me today `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, CFO, and `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer, Executive
Vice President for Global Medicines Development and our Chief Medical Officer.
Moving to slide 4, the third quarter of 2016 continued broadly in line with our expectations, and
we are on track for the year. The total revenue decline reflected the loss of exclusivity for Crestor
and quarterly U.S. Symbicort impacts and gross-to-net adjustments, the lack of FluMist sales, and
a one-off event in emerging markets. `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical will cover this in detail later.
The new AstraZeneca, which are the three main therapy areas and established medicines in
emerging markets, grew 6% in the year to date. Tagrisso became our biggest lung cancer
medicine during Q3, larger than Iressa now, and Farxiga continues as the global leader in the
SGLT2 class, with 42% volume share, taking the number one spot among AstraZeneca medicines
in diabetes overall.
Strong execution continues in the emerging markets. We are a solid number two in China, where
we're growing the fastest, and then we're much ahead of the market. In Russia, we are number
three overall.
EPS is supported by active cost management and also benefited from a non-recurring inter-
government tax agreement. We saw R&D investment fully stabilizing despite continued
investment in the strong pipeline. SG&A costs further reduced in line with our commitment. Given
the tailwinds and headwinds in the quarter, we maintain the full-year 2016 guidance. Finally, as we
strive towards building a more sustainable business, I'm pleased that AstraZeneca was
recognized as a Dow Jones Sustainability leader in the Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology & Life
Sciences industry group. This is an area of our company which is often overlooked.
Moving to slide 5. The pipeline continued its progress in Q3 with a number of examples of what
science can do. In oncology, Faslodex achieved Japanese submission for first-line hormone
receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer based on the FALCON trial. Lynparza's SOLO-2 trial
read out very positively in second-line maintenance treatment of advanced ovarian cancer, and
we are looking forward to presenting the data as soon as possible. Tagrisso saw its regulatory
submission in lung cancer accepted in China, where it was also granted Priority Review. We
decided to withdraw the EU regulatory submission for cediranib in ovarian cancer. And we didn't
make the primary endpoint in the Phase III trial for selumetinib in KRAS-mutated lung cancer.
In cardiovascular and metabolic disease, Brilinta was approved in Japan but did not meet the
primary endpoint of showing superiority to standard of care clopidogrel for peripheral artery
disease. The open combination of Farxiga and Bydureon was shown to be superior in Phase III
compared to each of the monotherapies. And we also saw acceptance in the U.S., as promised,
for the resubmission of ZS-9, our new potential medicine for hyperkalemia. We're looking forward
to a swift review by the FDA.
In respiratory, benralizumab delivered its fourth positive Phase III efficacy trial in severe
uncontrolled asthma. We will make a regulatory submission for benralizumab this quarter.
Benralizumab is expected to become an important medicine for patients with asthma and
potentially COPD, as well as an important medicine for our business, widening and deepening
our offering in the respiratory market.
Finally, together with our partner Eli Lilly, we obtained a Fast Track designation for the BACE
inhibitor in Alzheimer's disease. While early in Phase III development, the BACE inhibitor is an
excellent example of the improved R&D productivity, which also makes us confident about thePlease turn to slide 6. Staying on the loss of Crestor exclusivity, this chart illustrates how our
company is rapidly changing through a pipeline-driven strategic transformation and focus on
three main therapy areas. Year to date, we saw a large impact from losing Crestor exclusivity in
the U.S., but we are also still seeing some impact from Nexium and Seroquel. Further, we are also
moving beyond the U.S. CDC's recommendation to not use FluMist this season, for example.
And, as you can see, the impact of these patent expiries has been ongoing for a number of years
now.
As we annualize the negative impacts, our focus on three main therapy areas – oncology,
cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, and respiratory – will help us return to growth. Oncology is
growing rapidly through the launches of Lynparza and Tagrisso, with more to come from the
pipeline. Also, other medicines like Faslodex are doing well. CV/MD benefits from global growth
of Brilinta in our type-2 diabetes franchise, in particular Farxiga. Brilinta will soon approach a $1
billion annual blockbuster sales on a moving basis. Respiratory was impacted in the quarter but is
a growth platform with a combination of marketed and pipeline medicines like benralizumab.
When we add this all up, including established medicines in the emerging markets, we grew 6%
product sales in the year to date and 3% in the quarter. The underlying quarterly growth rate,
though, was actually 6% when you adjust for the items mentioned earlier. It's important to realize
that the emerging new AstraZeneca is a growing business in competitive markets with existing
medicines and pipeline to sustain that growth into the future. And that 6% year-to-date growth is
achieved without the full impact of the launch of new products that are emerging out of our
pipeline. We are in the early phase of those new launches, so we really look forward to a strong
growth rate in the years to come.
Before I hand over to `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical for the growth platform, I would like to thank all of my
colleagues for their contribution during Q3 and in 2016 so far. We have lots of talented people
that work incredibly hard on returning our company to sustainable growth. With this, over to you,
Mark.
`Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Thanks, Pascal. Please turn to slide 8. Our growth platforms continued to demonstrate strong
growth in the year, despite a softer Q3. The combined revenue from our six growth platforms
represented over 60% of our total revenue. Momentum was clearly seen in diabetes, Brilinta, and
importantly in new oncology. For the first time, new oncology sales reached almost $0.5 billion,
which is very exciting.
Please turn to slide 9. Now, with the performance in diabetes, Japan, and Brilinta continuing to be
resilient, I will only touch on these growth platforms briefly. Instead we'll focus today on the
emerging markets, respiratory, and new oncology.
Please turn to slide 10. Turning next to emerging markets, we remain on track with our long-term
goals despite a softer Q3. Underlying quarterly growth was kept at high single digits, adjusting for
an adverse impact from healthcare spending cuts in Saudi Arabia and the reduction of our
activities in Venezuela. China maintained double-digit growth of 10% and around 15% if you adjust
for Plendil, which was partnered. This was ahead of the overall Chinese market. And also Russia
and Brazil continue to grow well at 13% and 5%, respectively, in the year to date.
We are well-positioned to maintain growth in the near term with our established portfolio in
emerging markets and the growth platforms. Trends of better diagnosis, improved access, and
favorable patient dynamics bode especially well for our medicines in diabetes and respiratory.which has the largest patient population of EGFR-mutated non-small-cell lung cancers in the
world.
Please turn to slide 11. Our respiratory performance in the year to date was short of long-term
expectations and reflected the impact of deliberate strategic decisions we took to sustain
Symbicort's strong position in asthma and COPD markets, and also to prepare for the launch of
the exciting medicines Bevespi and benralizumab. In the year to date, our respiratory sales
declined by 2%, including decreases in the U.S. and Europe of 11% and 7%, respectively. The
underlying reasons I will talk about on a medicine-by-medicine basis. In contrast, emerging
markets experienced growth of 17%.
In the year to date, Symbicort continued to grow volume share. However, sales were down 10%,
reflecting developments in the U.S. market and an adverse event impact from healthcare
spending cuts in Saudi Arabia. In the U.S., Symbicort volume growth was offset by a true-up
related to past quarters in managed care access gains. These gains came despite the very
competitive market. The improved access in the U.S. will provide a platform not only for Symbicort
but also for future launches of Bevespi and benralizumab.
In Europe, Symbicort maintained its leadership in ICS/LABA market while facing continued
pressure for both branded and analog competition. In emerging markets, we maintained
leadership in the overall respiratory market, and our sales grew by 11%, with China growing by an
impressive 33% and global sales of Pulmicort increased by 8%, driven by 20% increase from
emerging markets. Again, our China business for Pulmicort grew 21% during the period, where we
continue in China to improve diagnosis, increase home nebulization and overall treatment rates.
Please turn to slide 12. Moving next to our diabetes franchise. Sales grew 13% with a positive
contribution from all regions. We believe the GLP-1 and SGLT2 classes will continue to be the
fastest-growing in type-2 diabetes, with all three major classes remaining highly competitive.
Farxiga is the number one diabetes medicine in AstraZeneca now, with sales of $220 million in the
quarter, and remains the global leader by volume in the SGLT2 class and outgrowing the class.
Please turn to slide 13. In Japan, we improved our performance in the third quarter despite a
more than 6% mandated price cut earlier this year. We maintained a leading dynamic market
share across our key existing therapeutic areas, with Crestor, Nexium, and Symbicort all being
leaders in their classes. We were also very pleased with the strong launch of Tagrisso that
leveraged our existing oncology portfolio and infrastructure. We now have more than 2,400
patients on treatment and sales of $43 million in the year to date. Our diagnostics partner
anticipates an approval for blood-based testing in due course.
Please turn to slide 14. Moving on to Brilinta, we delivered 39% growth in the year to date. Q3
growth in the U.S. was impacted by inventory stocking in the comparative period. We saw
continued progress in Europe. And, in emerging markets, China continued to deliver strong
performance. And we're also optimistic for future growth given the potential listing of Brilinta on
the China National Reimbursement Drug List in due course.
Please turn to slide 15. In just a few weeks, Tagrisso will be celebrating its one-year anniversary.
Tagrisso today exceeds $0.25 billion in sales, which is reflective of successive launches in the U.S.,
in the EU, and Japan. Tagrisso is now available to patients in more than 40 countries, and we're
expecting a China launch in 2017. Tagrisso sales in the quarter rose, reflecting strong patient
demand and successful commercial launches across multiple markets. The U.S. availability of the
blood-based test is very encouraging. And recently the NCCN Guidelines recommended T790
mutation testing for EGFR-mutated non-small-cell lung cancer patients upon disease progression.The current testing rates in the U.S. are over 40%, and with the new test, we're expecting
improved patient access to Tagrisso.
The performance of Lynparza also continued to be strong. As the leader in PARP inhibitors, we
have now treated nearly 5,000 patients and launched in 30 countries, with seven ongoing
reviews. The BRCA testing rates continue to grow, with rates now close to 70% in the U.S. and
Europe. With the positive trial readout of SOLO-2, we remain even more confident of the
benefits patients can derive from Lynparza.
Now I'll hand it over to you, Marc.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Mark, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes taking you through
our performance for the year to date. Please turn to slide 17. This first slide in my presentation
show our reported P&L performance in the year to date and in the third quarter.
Please turn to slide 18. Looking closely at the core P&L, the total revenue decline of 3% in the
year-to date reflected a 6% fall in product sales, with the effect of losing exclusivity on Crestor in
the United States particularly impacting the performance in the third quarter. Externalization
revenue increased by 56% to $1.4 billion, ahead of the total we delivered in the whole of 2015.
This is in line with the commitment I gave at the start of the year. Core gross profit declined by
3% in the year to date, and excluding the impact of externalization, the core gross profit margin
declined by 90 basis points to 83%.
Despite the impact of the loss of U.S. Crestor, our mix of sales and a growing element of
specialty care medicines meant that our core gross margin in the third quarter remained stable at
84%. Core R&D cost growth was stable in the third quarter, a good performance after the growth
seen in the first half of the year. I do, however, now expect full-year core R&D to be ahead of last
year. Core SG&A fell by 12% in the third quarter, with a 7% reduction in the year to date. I'm
delighted that we will deliver on our commitment to materially reduce core SG&A cost this year.
Other operating income in the year to date was significantly behind that in the comparative
period. We have, however, a number of disposal agreements that have been either closed or
expected to close in the fourth quarter. These agreements would take full-year other operating
income to around the level achieved in 2015. The core EPS performance in the third quarter of
2016 included a nonrecurring benefit of $0.36 resulting from agreements on transfer pricing
between various tax authorities. This benefit helped to deliver a year-to-date core tax rate of 8%,
which implies a potential full-year rate significantly below the range of 16% to 20% that I've talked
about previously.
Please turn to slide 19. As I've said many times before, cost discipline is a key focus for the
business, and we have made very good progress in the year to date. We are doing what we said
we'd do, and we are delivering on our commitment, producing result in line with guidance.
Looking at R&D cost, the chart shows sequential declines over recent quarters, despite the
absorption of ZS Pharma and Acerta Pharma. Excluding that absorption, the R&D cost would have
only increased by 1% in the year to date. In the third quarter, total core R&D costs were stable
despite the continued focus on a number of potential medicine in pivotal trials. The investment in
the pipeline remains an absolute priority for us. Turning to core SG&A costs, efficiency savings in
sales and marketing operations and reduction in IT cost underpin the restructuring program
outlined earlier this year. Our U.S. business has made particular progress this year. Core SG&A
cost as a percentage of total revenue fell to 35% in the year to date, more than 2 percentage
points lower than the comparative period.Please turn to slide 20. To conclude, I want to reiterate the guidance for 2016, which is at constant
exchange rates. We continue to expect a low to mid-single digit percentage decline in both total
revenue and core EPS. I plan to provide guidance for 2017 within our full-year results
announcement in February next year. Finally, I want to reconfirm our capital allocation priorities.
These are unchanged today. We'll continue to strike a balance between the interest of the
business, our financial creditors, and our shareholders. After providing for investment in the
business supporting the progressive dividend policy and maintaining our strong investment-grade
credit rating, we'll keep under review any potential investment in value-enhancing and
immediately earning accretive opportunities.
Thank you for listening, and I will now hand over to Sean.
`Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Hello, everyone. Let's start by taking a look at the encouraging progress we
have made with the pipeline since our last update.
Please turn to slide 22. In the quarter, we made progress in oncology, with a regulatory
submission for Faslodex in Japan to include the results in first-line treatment from the FALCON
trial in the label. We completed the regulatory submission for Tagrisso in China and obtained a
Priority Review designation. China represents the largest market in terms of patient numbers for
Tagrisso due to the high prevalence of EGFR mutation in non-small-cell lung cancer patients
there. We also saw a positive Phase III readout for Lynparza as a maintenance treatment in
second-line platinum-sensitive relapsed BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer from SOLO-2. This trial
showed significant progression-free survival benefit and provided additional evidence to support
the use of Lynparza in this setting. On cediranib, we withdrew the regulatory submission in the EU
based on questions raised by the EMA very late in the review process.
In cardiovascular and metabolic disease, we had a setback in EUCLID, with Brilinta not showing
superiority over clopidogrel for peripheral artery disease based on a MACE composite
cardiovascular endpoint consisting of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and
ischemic stroke. We are pleased, however, to report that we were able to move the ZS-9
program forward with an acceptance of the resubmission by the FDA. ZS-9 is now on track for
regulatory decisions in the first half of 2017 both in the United States and in the EU. The
DURATION-8 trial combining Farxiga and Bydureon had a positive readout and showed
improvement in hemoglobin A1c, as well as lowered systolic blood pressure and weight loss
versus each of the individual medicines. ZONDA also read out positively as the fourth Phase III
efficacy trial with benralizumab for severe uncontrolled asthma.
Finally, as Pascal mentioned earlier, we received Fast Track designation from the FDA for the
BACE inhibitor. As a reminder, the medicine is currently being tested in two Phase III trials in
Alzheimer's patients.
Please turn to the next slide. Moving on to Tagrisso, we announced positive results for the AURA3
trial in July, and we're looking forward to sharing those data at the World Conference on Lung
Cancer in December. Tagrisso can become the treatment of choice for all EGFR-mutation-
positive non-small-cell lung cancer patients. Key data readouts such as the BLOOM and FLAURA
trials in 2017 could help Tagrisso realize this ambition. As a reminder, BLOOM is a Phase I trial
evaluating the efficacy and safety of Tagrisso in patients with leptomeningeal disease. Unlike
other tyrosine kinase inhibitors in the class, Tagrisso has the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier
at therapeutic doses, which is proving more and more important. FLAURA is a Phase III trial in
patients with first-line EGFR-mutated metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer, which if positive willPlease turn to slide 24. At ESMO, we presented updated safety and efficacy data on the
durvalumab monotherapy cohort from Study 1108 in non-small-cell lung cancer and head and neck
cancer. These data points bode well for the ongoing Phase III trials with durvalumab monotherapy,
as well as for the combination trials with tremelimumab, as they highlight durvalumab as a highly
active inhibitor of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. In addition, we presented early data of durvalumab
combined with a STAT3 inhibitor in multiple tumor types, as well as the first OX40 inhibitor data in
patients with advanced solid tumors. Activating OX40 boosts anti-tumor immunity by promoting
the survival and proliferation of cancer-fighting T-cells and could potentially become a third
therapeutic intervention on top of PD-L1 and CTLA-4.
For Faslodex, we presented new data from the Phase III FALCON trial, demonstrating superior
median progression-free survival for Faslodex compared to anastrozole in the first-line treatment
of postmenopausal women with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. As noted, we
already achieved regulatory submission in Japan.
Lastly, a comparative analysis was presented of multiple diagnostic assays used to evaluate PD-L1
expression in head and neck squamous-cell carcinoma on over 500 tumor samples. This head
and neck comparative analysis is a complementary trial to a similar analysis on 500 non-small-cell
lung cancer tumor samples presented at AACR, emphasizing our pioneering work in tumor
biomarkers and assay comparisons.
Please turn to slide 25. This slide illustrates the key Phase III data readouts that you should expect
to see from our mono and combo immuno-oncology portfolio through 2018. And, as you can see,
the majority of these trials are fully recruited. As previously communicated and in line with recent
changes in the head and neck cancer competitive landscape, including the approval in the U.S. for
PD-1 monotherapy for second-line treatment, we are unlikely to make a regulatory submission for
the HAWK trial. HAWK, which is a single-arm Phase II trial, was originally designed as a potential
fast-to-market opportunity, and we expect to have data internally available during Q4.
Last month, we confirmed that the FDA had placed a partial clinical hold on the enrollment of new
patients with head and neck cancer in clinical trials of durvalumab as monotherapy and in
combination with tremelimumab or other potential medicines. All trials are continuing with
currently enrolled patients. The partial clinical hold on new patient enrollment related only to head
and neck cancer. Trials for durvalumab in different cancer types as monotherapy or in combination
with tremelimumab or other potential medicines are progressing as planned, with pivotal data in
lung cancer anticipated in the first half of 2017. We have submitted our analysis of the observed
bleeding events to the FDA, and we expect to hear back in the next fortnight.
Turning to MYSTIC, we remain fully confident in the trial design. Both progression-free survival
and overall survival are primary endpoints that can demonstrate the benefit of treatment of our
IO medicines. The MYSTIC trial could potentially provide a monotherapy label for durvalumab.
Despite enrolling all-comer patients, it has the potential to analyze PD-L1 positive and PD-L1
negative tumors on a separate basis. There is an option to amend the definition of PD-L1
positivity as long as the trial remains blinded with no analysis performed. In making this decision,
there is flexibility to consider internal as well as external data. The MYSTIC trial enrolled over 1,100
patients, with the last patient having commenced dosing in Q3. As you know, the first data on
progression-free survival is expected during the first half of 2017, with data on overall survival
expected in 2018 at the latest.
Please turn to slide 26. Turning to diabetes, we recently saw promising data from the
combination of Farxiga and Bydureon in the DURATION-8 trial. We saw decreased hemoglobin
A1c levels in addition to a reduction in both weight and blood pressure compared to eachmedicine individually. These results on glycemic parameters and cardiovascular risk factors
supported continued testing in patients with type-2 diabetes who suffer from obesity,
hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. Additionally, we are investigating two new trials with Farxiga,
looking at the long-term outcomes on CKD and CHF in patients with and without type 2-diabetes.
These two outcomes trials are in addition to the DECLARE outcomes trial for Farxiga that is fully
recruited with data expected latest in 2019, as well as the EXSCEL outcomes trial for Bydureon,
with data expected latest in 2018.
Please turn now to slide 27. In Respiratory, we recently presented the data from the SIROCCO
and CALIMA Phase III clinical trials for benralizumab at the ERS meeting. This data was also
published in The Lancet. The data demonstrated the potential benefit of adding benralizumab to
standard-of-care therapy for patients with severe uncontrolled eosinophilic asthma. We observed
a reduction in exacerbation rates of up to 51% compared to placebo.
There were also significant improvements in lung function and asthma symptoms, both key
secondary endpoints. In terms of lung function, these improvements were observed after the
first dose and sustained throughout the duration of therapy. These results were obtained with
once-every-eight-week dosing of benralizumab using a prefilled syringe for subcutaneous
injection, which may be more convenient for patients than other IL-5 options currently available.
As previously mentioned, regulatory submissions in the U.S. and EU are expected before the end
of the year.
Finally, let me finish by highlighting two exciting and innovative first-in-class biologic medicines in
our respiratory pipeline. First is tralokinumab, an anti IL-13, currently in Phase III trials for severe
uncontrolled asthma. We expect top-line data during the second half of 2017. And tezepelumab,
an anti-TSLP, which is in Phase II development and is expected to read out with top line data in the
first half of next year.
Please turn to slide 28 for a look at our forthcoming news flow. Looking at the rest of the news
flow, we plan to submit Tagrisso's AURA3 trial, and our partner FibroGen is expected to initiate
the rolling submission process for roxadustat in anemia in China during this quarter. There is the
potential for up to nine regulatory submissions next year. In oncology, we expect the first IO
submission of the durva and treme combo, as well as life-cycle opportunities for Lynparza and
Faslodex. We also see the potential for a blood cancer submission for acalabrutinib based on
Phase II data, with the standard caveat that this is a fast-to-market strategy ahead of randomized
controlled trial data. Next year, we also plan to submit a new autoinjector device for Bydureon to
improve both the patient experience and the competitive positioning of the medicine. We are
very pleased with the progress of the late-stage pipeline.
And I will now hand you back to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Please turn to slide 30. Before we end, let me summarize. Our financials are on
track, our guidance is unchanged, and we are delivering on our commitments. The second
message for you is the pipeline is accelerating, with 13 new potential medicines in Phase III or
under registration. The oncology pipeline is progressing ahead of our own expectations, in
particular Tagrisso and the immuno-oncology programs. Tagrisso is an excellent example of the
new AstraZeneca, and this product is going from strength to strength. And we're looking forward
to sharing forthcoming news flows over the next 12 months that we think have the potential to
transform our company.
Q&AA - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We'll now go the Q&A. Please remember to press *1 to ask your question. Can I please remind
everyone to limit questions to one, maximum two? Thanks in advance. And we can now take the
first caller, who is actually Matt Weston at Credit Suisse. Matt, go ahead.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you, Pascal. Two questions if I can. The first with respect to MYSTIC and the data that we
saw at ESMO, I'd be very interested in Sean's view as to the confidence around the percentage
of PD-L1 high patients that you've recruited into the study and also whether or not you are sure
that your stratification has been as detailed as perhaps it needs to be given the surprise results
from Bristol.
And then secondly one for Marc around externalization revenue. Marc, consensus has
externalization of $1.3 billion in 2017 and another $900 million of other operating income. I know
that some of that is going to be recurring, but a lot of it is also assumed to be upfront money on
deals. If we go back and look at the deals that you've done recently, it seems that you're selling
assets for about two times sales plus a royalty income. So my question is, should we be looking
to take an incremental $1 billion out of the top line going forward to adjust for those gains coming
in? Is that a reasonable assumption in terms of the legacy assets that you're likely to divest over
that period?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Matt. Before we answer the question, let me mention two participants who are also
with us today, Mondher Mahjoubi, who heads our oncology franchise, and Rob Iannone, who is
our Head of Clinical Development for immuno-oncology, and they may participate in answering
the questions.
So first question, MYSTIC – Sean, you will cover on the second, and Marc if you want to cover the
externalization. The only thing I would say about externalization, Matt, is that it's a bit early for us
to give guidance on 2017. So apologies if we are not very, very specific addressing your question.
The other point I would mention is when you look at two times sales, you really have to be careful
when you look at those deals, because many of them are actually partnering deals. And when we
partner we usually do not divest the entire product. We actually divest a portion of the product, if
you will, giving a margin to our partner to promote the product and accelerate the growth. An
example of (37:17) and example with our anesthetics business. So you cannot do an average
across the whole portfolio, but let's start with MYSTIC. Sean, over to you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Sure. And thank you for the question. The first part of the question had to do with confidence in
having adequate representation of PD-L1 high patients in MYSTIC, and I'll just go back with a little
history on MYSTIC. MYSTIC is an all-comers trial in first-line non-small-cell lung cancer. So we're
enrolling both PD-L1 high and PD-L1 low patients. You'll recall that earlier in the year, we changed
MYSTIC. We did a couple of things. One is we elevated overall survival to a co-primary endpoint.
And with doing that we also significantly increased the size of MYSTIC, from 700 to 1,100 patients.
And, in looking at MYSTIC, we are confident that we have the anticipated representation of PD-L1
expression across PD-L1 high, PD-L1 low, PD-L1 negative. We also feel great confidence that with
the increase in size, we have adequate power to detect the treatment effect, both in PD-L1 highpatients with durva as monotherapy, possibly durva-treme as a combination if it's significantly
better, and then also with the combination in PD-L1 negatives.
You also asked a question about stratification. We have stratified for the meaningful known
prognostic factors in non-small-cell lung cancer within MYSTIC. So we're confident there that
we've incorporated what we can anticipate into the trial. With regard to anything we couldn't
anticipate, I mean, I think the size of the trial and the randomization should give us confidence
that we should get balance across the trial. There's nothing coming out of ESMO that really
changes our interpretation of either of those particular questions or factors.
I think now probably to Marc to answer the second question.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. So, just on the externalization revenue, I think I can say that this is part of our business model,
and therefore we're expecting to continue the externalization revenue in 2017, 2018, and so on.
So, yes, this is going to continue. To the question is what is the impact on lost sales on the
forward years, it's more difficult to answer your question because obviously it depends on the
ratio between externalized revenue and other income, and also it depends on the deal structure,
whether we are letting the order value grow or not. So it's a very difficult question to answer. We
will try to – next year for the guidance, try to provide some help in projecting these two lines of
the P&L. But for the time being, what I can say, this is going to continue at a reasonable level for
the years to come.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Many thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
`Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. at Exane. Simon, go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thanks so much for taking my two questions. Firstly, just going back to the guidance. At first blush,
looking at what you've now delivered for the first three quarters and the reiteration of the
guidance, one might think that the guidance on revenues is a little too optimistic and the
guidance on earnings is a little too pessimistic. So I was wondering if we were missing anything, or
anything else you'd like to highlight. And I'm thinking particularly about SG&A and gross margin.
And then the second question for Sean. Going back to the DURATION-8 Farxiga/Bydureon
combination study. There looked to be a good continuing trend on weight loss at 28 weeks rather
than any plateauing. So I wonder if you have any plans to run longer studies or further follow-up
for DURATION-8 to see what the full impact of weight loss in that combination is. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Simon. Sean, do you want to start with the DURATION-8 question?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `Yeah. Thank you, Simon, for the question. We didn't miss that shape of the curve either when we
looked at DURATION-8. And what we're doing right now is we are looking at what would be the
best options going forward for further study of the combination. I alluded to that a little bit in
describing the diabetes franchise and really looking at obesity, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia
and whether this combination has particular potential in people with those risk factors. But
unfortunately I don't have any more to update you on than what we have with the 28-week data
which we showed you for DURATION-8.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. Guidance – Marc, maybe you want to cover this. Let me just say that as far the top
line, I mean, we see the business as totally on track. Of course, we've had some one-offs in the
third quarter. But if you look at the underlying growth rate of the so-called new AstraZeneca, our
growth platforms overall, we have a good growth rate of 6%, including in the third quarter. And
we see this continuing. So we're very much on track. I don't think that there's any reason to
change our guidance there as far as the top line. And as far as the bottom line, I'll let Marc answer
that one. Marc, go ahead.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Thank you, Simon. So to the question whether our sales guidance for the year is optimistic,
I'll remind you that our sales guidance for sales is low to mid-single digit decline, and despite the
one-off impact on the quarter three, we remain confident that we can achieve that guidance, and
therefore we believe that maintaining it is appropriate. On the bottom line, obviously we have
talked to you about the tax impact, which is very significant, but we also have another negative
which needs to be considered, and I will – I don't know whether we can call it a negative, but a
negative as far as the EPS impact. And we are spending more R&D that we were expecting to do.
We continue to invest behind our key molecules. So that's one of them. We had some weakness
in the emerging markets in the quarter three, and also we had some true-up on Symbicort in the
third quarter. So, with all of this together, the plus and minus, we believe that it is appropriate for
us to reconfirm our guidance on EPS for the year 2016, and again it's low to mid-single digit
decline.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. I mean, the key point here, Simon, is really we see the business totally on track
from a top line viewpoint. And we'll continue of course driving the growth of our growth platform.
`Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of America. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
...verification question to the last comment. And maybe just to reframe it a little bit. So full-year
2016 guidance is unchanged, but versus sell-side estimates, you have much greater one-off
income now for the full year versus the start of the year, roughly $3 billion versus $2 billion. And
obviously the $450 million tax benefit, and totaling $1.5 billion positive one-off delta versus the
start of the year. So just to clarify, Marc, does the R&D, EM weakness, and Symbicort account for
all of that or are there other factors that we should be thinking about in terms of the base
business?
And then to the two product questions. On MYSTIC, just to follow on, did the strength of the PFS
data from the Keytruda KEYNOTE-24 provide you any color as to how you think about
apportioning statistical alpha between PFS and OS? And the background to that question is you
previously talked about PFS not being necessarily predictive of OS. So how are you thinking aboutthat? And then secondly, on acalabrutinib, Sean, I just wanted to check your confidence in the
fast-to-market strategy there. There seemed to be some emphasis on it being a Phase II study.
So is there any change in your view of fast-to-market? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Sean, do you want to start with the two last questions and -
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Sure.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
– (46:06) to the guidance in a minute?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Sure. That sounds fine. So the first thing I want to do is I want to go back to Simon's question,
because we had a chance to look at the DURATION-8 details – didn't have them in my head. So
DURATION-8 follows patients for two years, Simon. So we'll be able to look at the weight-loss
curve over more time, but we just don't have anything to share at this time. So we'll get you
updates in the future.
To Sachin's question about the Keytruda data and how it might relate to MYSTIC. So the first thing
is that we view the Merck data as validating what I think we all felt was a pretty strong therapeutic
hypothesis, which is that PD-1/PD-L1 is a very effective treatment in first-line lung cancer, albeit in
this case in a pretty highly selected group of PD-L1 positive patients. And we definitely take all the
data that we have seen from ESMO and the data that we have seen from some internal work that
we're doing on other studies to inform our MYSTIC statistical analysis plan, and we are confident
that MYSTIC is designed to show a clinically meaningful treatment benefit in PD-L1 positive
patients – obviously provided that the trial turns out to demonstrate that.
With regard to acalabrutinib, this initial filing in acalabrutinib was always an opportunistic fast-to-
market opportunity based on non-randomized data. With all of the caveats that come with an
accelerated approval and an approval based on non-randomized data in terms of the magnitude
of treatment effect that you have to demonstrate and having to demonstrate a clearly unmet
medical need. And so in that respect nothing has changed with regard to the strategy. What has
changed is that the data maturity we had previously expressed at end of this year, and we're now
saying it's going to be first half of next.
Thank you, Pascal. Back to you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. The only thing I would add is just kind of reinforce the point actually, Sachin, that
the accelerated approval was always a sort of an upside, if you will. And it was never our core
strategy. We haven't changed our view as to the probability of this happening. There's no change
of view at all, but it's just important to keep in mind it was always an upside, not our base plan.
I'll ask Marc to cover the guidance. But again, in terms of these one-offs, remember we have
FluMist; it's a one-off that was sort of not expected, of course. We have Venezuela, we have the
Saudi Arabia situation, and of course the price effect for Symbicort in Q3. So that is all stuff (49:19)to be kept in mind as it relates to the top line. As I said, the growth platforms, the underlying
business, the new AstraZeneca is doing exactly as we expected.
Just like to add on the Symbicort front, we need to recognize that there is a price pressure in the
U.S. This is not something I would want to ignore or appear as we are underestimating. There is a
price pressure, and it certainly will continue, but Q3 is not reflective of that price pressure.
There's a one-off there that we should eliminate.
Marc, go ahead.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. So first of all let me emphasize again that, obviously, guidance is a range. Therefore, within
that range, one needs to understand the positive and the negative factors. And to summarize the
negative factors, or the factors that have an impact negatively on the EPS, R&D is one of them.
The second, as Pascal just described, the quarter three true-up, and that's a predominantly
Symbicort pricing true-up for previous quarters. We have – and `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical has described them
earlier on – the emerging market one-off, and that's Saudi. This is Latin America. And, as Pascal
just reminded us, we also had the FluMist ACIP negative recommendation. So, apart from these
four main factors, there are none other.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC at Leerink. Seamus, go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Oh, thanks very much for the questions. So just a couple here. There were some abstracts – this
is a question for Sean – some abstracts at ASH that have been published so far talking about
acalabrutinib activity and efficacy, as well as safety in Imbruvica-intolerant patients. Just wondering
if you could comment on that program. It looked like the product was particularly well-tolerated in
this patient population. And as a follow-up to the acalabrutinib question, can you guys just update
us on the intellectual property position for that product?
And then, just a quick separate question. I believe that we're going to see the SOLO-2 data
presented at ECCO, or at least there's a placeholder abstract there, in January. Can you guys just
give us a general sense of how competitive you feel Lynparza is with other PARP inhibitors, and
just sort of what your general view is on PARPs relative to PARP-trapping capability and the
efficacy in the class? Do you believe that there is meaningful differentiation in the class, given
what you've seen so far? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I'll ask Sean if you want to cover those two points. I mean, just on Lynparza, I mean, we see it as
very competitive. You will see the data in due time, but we see it very competitive on the efficacy
side and certainly differentiated on the safety front. So we believe this is a compound that has
great potential. Sean, do you want to cover the ASH question and also complement maybe the
Lynparza response?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `Sure. Yeah, I'm happy to. Thank you, Seamus, for the questions. So the first question had to do
with acalabrutinib and the ibrutinib-intolerant population. There have been several publications,
mostly institutional experience retrospective publications, indicating that there's are a significant
fraction of patients on ibrutinib who discontinue the drug without having progressed. So that
means that they're discontinuing for a reason other than resistance or disease progression. And
most commonly that's due to adverse events or intolerability. And so what we've done is we're
gaining some experience, and these are really kind of proof-of-concept abstracts, with asking if
patients seem to be benefiting from BTK inhibition but can't tolerate ibrutinib, will they be able to
tolerate acalabrutinib? As you say, the early data looks encouraging, but again this is an emerging
field, and we are really trying to define what does ibrutinib-intolerant look like? So I will say it's
encouraging, it's an interesting potential opportunity, but it's evolving right now.
With regard to SOLO-2, just a clarification, we have said that the data obviously is positive top line
progression-free survival with what we believe is a significant and competitive benefit. We did not
indicate what meeting that data would be presented at. We just said an upcoming scientific
meeting, and when we get greater clarity on having it accepted and when we're actually going to
be confirmed to present, we can provide more clarity on that.
With regard with competitiveness of the class, I think what Pascal said is exactly right. We believe
from an efficacy standpoint it is quite competitive. And the trapping issue, it is true that there are
different potencies in vitro for PARP trapping, and we do believe PARP trapping is important. The
only point is that the doses of the different PARP inhibitors are different, and we believe that all of
them can be dosed well above the amount of PARP trapping that needs to be achieved in order
to be efficacious. So it's actually not a clinically meaningful differentiation, since many of them can
achieve it.
A couple things I'll point out as you start to look at data in this field. In terms of tolerability, I think
looking at dose reduction rates and as an AE, thrombocytopenia, in the class, we don't see much
thrombocytopenia with Lynparza, and we don't see many dose reductions. The last thing that I will
say about SOLO-2 is SOLO-2 also enables a formulation which reduces the pill burden of patients
quite considerably. So we're not only excited about filing the data to get the approval, but also to
be able to convert to the new dose formulation.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. On the active front, (56:01) the acalabrutinib patent expires in 2032. Tim
Anderson at Bernstein. Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Can I go back to MYSTIC, please? There's discussion about biomarkers and cutoff
levels, but if I'm understanding it right, it's really only relevant to secondary endpoints and not the
primary endpoint. And if you don't hit the primary, then the value of those secondaries, it's kind of
questionable what the value is. So are you comfortable leaving that primary endpoint as an all-
comer population – again, where I guess we don't really care what the biomarker cutoff is
because it's all-comers? Or is there a potential that you change it? And if you change it to just an
expresser population, would the timing of readout be the same? And then a second question on
MYSTIC, if you don't hit PFS on this first readout in the first half, is it possible we may not see you
present any data until you have the OS data? I'm wondering if it could be a vacuum of information
under this scenario where maybe you don't hit PFS.
And then last question on KESTREL and EAGLE and head and neck, squamous morphology. I'malso be a potential bleeding issue with the CTLA-4 combo.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Tim. Sean, over to you again.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Okay. Thanks, Tim, for the question. So, first of all, with regard to MYSTIC and the cutoff, it's
a good question. It is true that if you don't hit a primary endpoint, you don't have a positive trial.
So that secondary endpoints aren't really very important in a overall negative trial. We have the
opportunity to revise our statistical analysis plan – and we've talked to everyone about that
before – before we do our analysis. And so we can look at both external and internal data and
decide how we want to fit cutoff and positive versus all-comers into the analysis plan for the
primary endpoint. So I won't guide any more on that right now. Just recognizing that that's an
opportunity.
You had another question, which is about progression-free survival and then going on to overall
survival. So the change in the analysis plan doesn't change our guidance as to when we will see a
progression-free survival readout. It is, however, true that if we don't hit progression-free survival
– and again, I think as we've discussed before, we believe that overall survival really is much more
meaningful in capturing the full benefit of immunotherapy for cancer, and I think the data in the
field as a whole is really supporting that as it matures. If we don't hit the progression-free survival,
it is true that we can still have a positive trial for overall survival subsequently. So we would wait
for formal presentation of the trial data until we've completed the analysis of the trial.
The last one was about head and neck cancer and squamous-cell carcinoma. So, as you know,
there is a background rate of bleeding that occurs with squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and
neck, and it's distinctive from lung cancer, squamous or non-squamous. So a couple of things
about that. First of all, we were placed on partial clinical hold because of a potential signal seen in
a normal safety review of our head and neck program with IO. And what we did is we first went
on voluntary hold, and then we were able to do a much more detailed analysis of the imbalance
that we saw there, and we've now submitted that to the FDA and proposed how we would move
forward.
We feel very confident we will move forward in head and neck cancer, okay, and we have not
revised our timeline. We don't think at this point we need to. We'll still be able to achieve it. The
hold was specific for squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck. It did not apply to any other
tumor type in the program, including MYSTIC, DANUBE, NEPTUNE, all of those trials. So those are
ongoing, without change, they have normal safety monitoring that we do in all our trials, and no
such signal has been identified. So that's (1:01:03)
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
I'm sorry. Can I just ask a clarifying question? So if you were to change the primary on MYSTIC, just
to an expresser population and not all-comers, is your timing of readout still likely to be first half
of 2017? And then, again, I'm not sure – maybe you answered it and maybe I heard it incorrectly –
but if you don't get PFS on that readout, are you saying you won't likely have any data then in that
scenario until you have the mature OS data read out (1:01:38)?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `So the answer is that our PFS readout will be in the first half of 2017. And if we do not hit for PFS,
we have the opportunity to wait for the maturation of the OS data, at which time, we will analyze
the OS data and report whether we have hit for that endpoint or not. And we anticipate that in
2018, I should say.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then if you change the primary endpoint, the timing of readout, is it still first half? If you
were to change the primary?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yes. Yes.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The answer is yes, Tim. I'll still have a reading in the first half of 2017, and then second read in first
half of 2018.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Before we go to the last question, I'd just like to kind of reiterate what Sean said a minute ago as
far as head and neck. We are confident to be able to resume enrollment to the extent that we
are not changing the dates for the readout of those head and neck studies.
So I'll move to `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc of Morgan Stanley. Vincent, go ahead.
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one is again on the guidance with
the focus on SG&A savings. I mean, the savings have again been very important and higher than
expected. Could you elaborate on the sources for the savings you are able to extract right now?
And more importantly, the potential sources for further savings? Second question is on
respiratory. You talked about preparing the platform for Bevespi and benra. Does it mean more
SG&A investments? Will this effort be only in-house? Or does that include external contribution
and alliances?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Vincent, I just want to be sure I understood the second question, where in terms of respira and
Bevespi, can you repeat the question?
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yeah. You say that you are preparing a platform for Bevespi and benra. So does that mean that
you will increase your SG&A investments in respiratory? Or would you like to – I mean, improve
the existing platform with acquisitions or maybe in-licensing or partnerships?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Sorry. Got it. Thank you so much. At this point, the plan is to launch Bevespi on our own and to
suddenly look for synergies in our respiratory team across Symbicort and Bevespi and later on of
course benralizumab. But we don't intend to partner Bevespi. We are preparing to launch it next
year. Mark, anything you want to add to this?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President-Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
No. I mean, we've got, I think, top-notch respiratory sales team, market access team, medical
teams. They're very excited about this product. It's going to make a big difference for patients
with COPD. And so, we're confident that we'll do a good job, and we're preparing to do the
same thing for benralizumab.
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Good. Thanks. Marc – the other Marc, that is – for SG&A.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So, as far as SG&A savings, you have seen that we met our commitment in 2015. We are in a
good way to meet also our commitments and even exceed them for 2016 in terms of SG&A cost
reductions. Whether these come from – you are well aware that we have initiated – footprint
initiative we have initiated. We have also started three years ago a large program of IT cost
reduction. These are well on their way. And earlier this year, we have also started another
initiative to increase our SG&A – medical and marketing productivity. So I think it's a combination
of various productivity initiatives, which have been started at different times in the last two or
three years, but we are determined to maintain the cost discipline and to make sure that our
SG&A ratio comes more in line with the rest of our peers.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. So we'll close here and thank you again for your participation, your great
questions. And, in closing, let me just reiterate what I said earlier: We are completely on track
from our viewpoint in terms of implementation of our strategy. We are ahead of plan as far as
pipeline, in particular in oncology, and there's a great news flow coming over the next 12 months.
From a financial viewpoint, we believe we're on track. And, importantly, the new AstraZeneca is
really starting to emerge and, over the next 12 months, we expect to make more progress on
this. So, again, thank you so much. And have a great rest of the day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude this conference. We thank you very much for your
participation. You may now disconnect. Thank you