Q1 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Hachisuka from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the Fiscal Year 2017 First
Quarter. I am `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation; and Ms. Ota (1:02), our interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of today's earning results, and then Ms. Ota will take over the rest of the presentation.
This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and that actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page two
of today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading
is included on page three. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the three months from April to June 2016.
Let me start with slide five. Compared to the same period of the last fiscal year, consolidated
vehicle sales increased by 58,000 units to 2.172 million units. Vehicle sales were down year-on-
year in North America, Middle East and Africa, but up in Japan due to strong sales of new models.
In Asia, driven by Indonesia and the Philippines and in Europe, on the back of solid markets.
Please see slide six. Our consolidated financial results for the first quarter were net revenues of
¥6,589.1 billion, operating income of ¥642.2 billion, pre-tax income of ¥677.0 billion, and net
income of ¥552.4 billion.Now, I would like to hand the rest of this presentation to Ms. Ota, our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Next, using slide seven, I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-
on-year. Despite the positive factors such as cost reduction efforts and marketing efforts,
operating income was down ¥113.7 billion compared to the first quarter of the last fiscal year due
to the significant impact of yen appreciation. Nevertheless, operating income excluding the
overall impact of foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses, et cetera, was up
¥145 billion.
Now, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region. In Japan, despite the
suspension of production following the Kumamoto earthquakes, vehicle sales increased by
41,000 units year-on-year to 511,000 units driven by new models such as the Prius, Sienta and
Passo. Operating income however declined by ¥186.9 billion to ¥290.1 billion due to the effect of
FOREX rates and increased expenses in spite of progress in cost reduction efforts.
In North America vehicle sales were down 14,000 units year-on-year to 715,000 units despite
positive performance of the new Prius and the RAV4. This was due to declined sales of our
passenger cars overall as demand shifted to light trucks. Nevertheless, operating income
improved by ¥14.2 billion to ¥165.4 billion compared to the first quarter of the last fiscal year as an
increase in marketing expenses was more than offset by positive factors such as cost reduction
efforts and decreased expenses.
In Europe, on slide 10, vehicle sales grew by 16,000 units year-on-year to 222,000 units on the
back of solid demand in Western Europe. Nevertheless, operating income decreased by ¥1.6
billion to ¥8.5 billion mainly as a result of the depreciation of the British pound and Russian ruble.
In Asia, vehicle sales were up 56,000 units year-on-year to 384,000 units as sales remained
robust in Indonesia, the Philippines and other countries driven partly by launches of new models
such as the IMV series and the Avanza. Operating income improved by ¥22.4 billion year-on-year
to ¥124.6 billion as positive factors such as increased vehicle sales and cost-reduction efforts
more than made up for negative factors such as an increase in depreciation expenses related to
full model changes.
Now, please move on to slide 12. In other regions overall vehicle sales were 340,000 units, down
41,000 units year-on-year as a result of decreased sales in the Middle East and Africa where
weak oil prices affected the market. The operating income decreased by ¥6.3 billion to ¥28.1
billion primarily because of the undermined import profitability by weaker local currencies and an
increase in labor and other costs with inflation despite improved model mix driven by sales of the
IMV Series.
Now, please see slide 13 for financial services. Operating income, excluding swap valuation gains
and losses for the first quarter, declined ¥15.2 billion year-on-year to ¥81.6 billion despite an
increase in lending balance. This was mainly due to the increased costs related to residual-value
losses and the translational impact of FOREX rates.
Please refer to slide 14. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the first quarter was ¥90.0
billion down ¥10.9 billion compared to the same period of the last fiscal year. Our affiliated
companies in Japan posted a decrease in their earnings while our affiliated companies in China
posted an increase.Now, I would like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year ending in March 2017.
Please look at slide 16. We maintained our forecast of consolidated vehicle sales at 8.9 million
units, as we initially announced in May. We expect further sales growth in North America driven by
pick-up trucks and SUVs in Europe led by robust sales in Western Europe and in Asia following
improvement of market conditions. On the other hand, we anticipate a further decline in sales in
Middle East as the marketing environment continues to deteriorate with weak oil prices.
Next, I would like to discuss our latest forecast of consolidated financial performance. We revised
our assumption of foreign exchange rates to ¥100 per dollar and ¥110 per euro from July
onwards, thus, adopting ¥102 per dollar and ¥113 per euro for the full fiscal year.
Based on such assumption, our forecasts of consolidated financial performance for the full fiscal
year are: net revenue of ¥26,000 billion; operating income of ¥1,600 billion; pre-tax income of
¥1,780 billion; and net income of ¥1,450 billion.
Now, using slide 18 I would like to explain the major factors behind the downward revision of
operating income by ¥100 billion from ¥1,700 billion. We plan to implement profit improvement
measures totaling ¥115 billion comprising of cost reduction efforts, marketing efforts and
reduction of expenses. However, the anticipated negative impact of the effects of FOREX rates
of ¥185 billion and other of ¥30 billion will be significant. As a result, operating income for the
current fiscal year is expected to be ¥100 billion less than our initial forecast.
Next, please see slide 19 which compares the latest operating income forecast for the current
fiscal year with the result of the last fiscal year. Operating income excluding the overall impact of
FOREX rates and swap valuation gains and losses, et cetera, was initially expected to drop by
¥65 billion according to our forecast in May. However, it is now expected to improve by ¥50 billion
as a result of profit improvement measures of ¥115 billion.
Finally, please see slide 20 for the outlook of R&D expenses, capital expenditures and
depreciation expenses. The outlook of R&D expenses is now revised down to ¥1,070 billion due
to an efficiency improvement of ¥10 billion. Factoring in the revised assumption of FOREX rates,
we also revised down our forecast of CapEx and depreciation expenses by ¥10 billion each to
¥1,340 billion and ¥920 billion respectively. The external environment, including yen appreciation,
is likely to remain challenging for us. Nevertheless, we will continue to pursue further
improvement of our earnings prospects by maximizing delivery of our vehicles to our customers
and incessantly promoting cost reduction activities.
As was discussed in May, when we reported the last fiscal year's results, we are determined to
make steady progress in making ever better cars through TNGA and other initiatives, while
sowing seeds for the future through the development of autonomous driving and other
technologies.
This concludes my presentation of the financial results for the first quarter of the fiscal year
ending March 2017. Thank you very much for your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you, Mr. Otake and Ms. Ota. Now, we will gladly take your questions, but only up to two
questions per person, please. Further question may be possible later if time allows. You don't
have to name yourself. Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your lines.
Q&AOperator
Thank you, Mr. Hachisuka. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
Start now? Good evening. Thank you very much for the call. Two questions. First of all on slide
nine, you're talking about the increase in operating profits in the United States. And I was just
wondering if you could give us a bit more color on the decline in expenses. I was wondering if
that has to do with quality-related expenses and the Takata airbags issue.
My second question is with regard to equity method income on page 14. You had a significant
improvement in profitability in China, and I was wondering if you expected that to be sustainable
going forward. Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (15:16-16:16)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (16:18-16:31)
Thank you for the question. As to the page nine, the first question which is some of the factors
which pushed up the income in the North America, the U.S.A.
[Foreign Language] (16:44-17:02)
Let me first touch up on some of the negative factors against the U.S. dollar, the Canadian dollar
weakened as well as the Mexican peso weakened, which amounts to about this $10 billion worth
of the negative factor.
[Foreign Language] (17:20-17:39)
Another second factor is that the sales volume the unit decreased. And on the other hand, the
sales and marketing expenses increased which actually was a negative factor of about ¥15 billion.
[Foreign Language] (17:56-18:12)
In terms of the overseas sales figure is translated and calculated into the Japanese yen. Of
course, the exchange rate would affect to figure adversely especially from the U.S. dollar to the
Japanese yen. And because of the stronger yen, that the figure has been in Japanese yen
weaker or lower which amounts to about ¥20 billion worth.
[Foreign Language] (18:40-18:52)
But of course to offset such negative factors to the income, we have the factors to push up the
income. For example, we have really increased the efforts to further improve and lower the cost.
[Foreign Language] (19:11-19:32)
And here, the section, it talks about this reduction of the expenses, but during the previous – the
first half, the quality related costs incurred. But then compared to the previous term that in this
term that cost did not incur. So, you can see we have reduced that expense.
[Foreign Language] (19:55-20:05)
So, taking into account all those positive factors and negative factors for the operating income,
we have enjoyed the over ¥14 billion of increase of the income.[Foreign Language] (20:18-20:45)
Your question was relevant to the affiliated companies earnings especially focusing upon China.
Well, the sales units, the vehicle units in China increased. And then we made further efforts to
reduce the costs incurred, so that taking into account all those effort made that we enjoyed this
¥15 billion of increase.
[Foreign Language] (21:12-21:23)
Our outlook for the future sustainability of this in China: well, the sales competition in the Chinese
market is becoming more and more fierce.
[Foreign Language] (21:35- 21:47)
Especially the model mix of the sales have become more difficult and will become more difficult
for us because the smaller sized vehicle models which have less of the profitability. I think the
proportion and the percentage of that smaller size vehicle is on the increase.
[Foreign Language] (22:09-22:24)
And at the same time, the sales and marketing costs are likely to increase. Therefore, in terms of
the profitability which comes up in the next I think the following pages, we cannot really be that
optimistic about that.
[Foreign Language] (22:38-22:50)
In order to continue to enhance our profitability, we will have to increase the unit sales of the
vehicle, as well as improve the profitability. And so we will continue to make this effort in this area.
Q - Operator
Thank you. If I could just follow up a bit. You gave a detailed break down of the negative factors
on US operating profits, could you give us a breakdown of the ¥59 billion positive factors on US
operating profits?
[Foreign Language] (23:24-23:37)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (23:38-23:50)
I'd like to give you the rough breakdown of this improvement. The cost improvement amounts to
about ¥5 billion to ¥10 billion, and the further cost reduction, I think, is the remaining contributor.
Q - Operator
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Thank you. I'd like to ask first about a little more detail on quality costs. I wonder if you could
tell us the absolute amount of quality costs in the first quarter and the year-on-year change. Andthen, if you could also tell us your expectation for the remaining nine months in terms of overall
quality costs in your assumption and the year-on-year change. Thank you. That's the first question.
[Foreign Language] (24:45-25:14)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (25:20-25:36)
Touching upon the quality cost details, as to the first quarter, the actual cost – the figure was – the
cost was lower than the year-on-year comparison of the previous year, the same period.
[Foreign Language] (25:54-26:06)
Now, our outlook forecast for – throughout the year compared to the previous year, the year-on-
year comparison tells us there will be marked increase, substantial increase of that cost.
[Foreign Language] (26:23-26:36)
Well, throughout this fiscal year, we would like to fully prepare for the potential future risks to be
realized so that taking into account the past actual – the numbers, we would like to have the
additional reserve for the potential quality issue.
Q - Operator
Okay. And my second and last question is a kind of big question. But in the first quarter, your
operating profit fell 15%, but for the full year, your forecast is for around a 40% decline, which
implies a much sharper decrease in the remaining three quarters. You just touched on one reason
why that might be the case, quality costs. Another reason is currency or yen appreciation. And I
know you do also have seasonal strength in profits in the first quarter, but could you just kind of
list the factors that should cause your profit to drop much more significantly in the remaining
three quarters and if possible give us some type of impact of those factors? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (28:08-29:13)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (29:16-30:01)
So, thank you for the question, and let me try to explain. As to the first quarter, the actual figure
of the operating income was ¥640 billion. And then throughout the year, our outlook is ¥1.6 trillion.
And kindly divide that throughout the year the outlook of ¥1.6 trillion by four quarters, each
quarter estimate would be about ¥400 billion. And so let me explain why this ¥400 billion is
different from the ¥240 billion. And I'd like to now give you some detailed figures.
[Foreign Language] (30:45-30:49).
The first factor is the currency fluctuation.
[Foreign Language] (30:55-31:01)
Of this different of ¥240 billion, about ¥100 billion is due to the foreign exchange rate fluctuation.
[Foreign Language] (31:11-31:37)Since July and afterwards, that our outlook scenario for the exchange rate would be ¥100 to the
US dollar and ¥110 to the euro. So, based upon that exchange rate scenario, we have estimated
the potential impact for each quarter. And that will amount to about ¥100 billion of this negative
impact upon the operating income.
[Foreign Language] (32:11-32:45)
On the other hand, there are positive factors as well that is actually underlined by the estimated
increase of the volume of sales units. Compared to the first quarter figure, the remaining
quarters for each quarter, we are expecting the unit of sales to increase. So, that will push up by
about ¥30 billion of the income.
[Foreign Language] (33:18-33:28)
And the other factors, for example, the fixed cost items are likely to increase throughout the year.
[Foreign Language] (33:39-34:04)
So as to this specific item of the expenses, for example, depreciation expenses throughout the
year and divided by each quarter, I think that is likely to increase per quarter. Because in the
second quarter and afterwards, new model, the switch to new model is likely to take place which
will increase the depreciation cost.
[Foreign Language] (34:30-34:51)
In our outlook, we have also taken into account the other sales and marketing related costs to
increase, namely, the new model launch related to expenses, as well as the expected vehicle
sales accompanied by the incentive amount to increase as well.
[Foreign Language] (35:12-35:26)
And every year, we see the general trend that for the general expenses during the first quarter
that there's a tendency that such general expenses incur less during the first quarter.
[Foreign Language] (35:41-35:58)
And another item of the possible expenses is the quality-related costs are likely to go up during
the latter half of the fiscal year. And according to that scenario, we made a plan and made
estimates.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (36:16-36:19)
Thank you for taking my question. Could you please share with us the net auto cash number,
please?
[Foreign Language] (38:03-38:09)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (38:21-38:33)
As of end of June, the net auto cash balance is ¥7.4 trillion or more.A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Any follow-up questions?
Q - Operator
Thank you. Thank you for the second opportunity. You've been talking about new product launch
costs, and I was wondering if you could just outline for us the new product schedule for the key
markets in the US, China, Japan and Europe. Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (40:43-40:59)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (41:00-41:11)
First of all, I would like to ask you to take note of the fact that we are only publishing the following
model names at the scheduled launch, and that is all we are disclosing for the time being.
[Foreign Language] (41:27-41:37)
The first scheduled launch is the SUV new type called C-HR, which is a bit smaller size model than
RAV4.
[Foreign Language] (41:48-42:05)
This model is scheduled to be launched here in Japan by the end of this year, and following that,
we are planning to launch it early next year in Europe, and it should be followed by the US and
other markets.
[Foreign Language] (42:23-42:49)
Another launch which was already made and announced in Indonesia this year in July is the Sienta
minivan, and just two days ago, Calya, the smaller minivan, was also launched in Indonesia.
[Foreign Language] (43:06-43:24)
Another scheduled launch is Lexus LC coupe and which is scheduled to be launched around
spring next year of 2017.
[Foreign Language] (43:36-43:53)
Another one is a plug-in hybrid model of Prius, which is scheduled to be launched this upcoming
winter.
[Foreign Language] (44:06-44:21)
And in 2018 in China, the plug-in hybrid model of Corolla and plug-in hybrid model of Levin will be
launched. Thank you. That's all.
Q - Operator
Okay. If I could just follow up. Is it safe to assume then that you have other new models that you
intend to launch in addition to these given that in the coming nine months you're expecting new
product launch costs to accelerate?[Foreign Language] (44:57-45:13)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (45:15-45:34)
Yes, in a way because the new main models to be launched, for example, is C-HR and the plug-in
hybrid Prius and so on. And then, so that means the additional sales and marketing costs to be
incurred and that is why we have taken into account the launch potential costs.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (46:03-46:06)
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - Operator
Two market questions. The first one is regarding Brexit. And I'm wondering how Toyota believes
its business and its profit could be affected by Brexit, say, over the rest of the year and maybe
over the next one to two years. That's my first question.
[Foreign Language] (46:34-47:04)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (47:05-47:20)
Thanks for the question. After the possible impact by Brexit, we are currently cautiously
considering and examining. And we believe that in the short term it should not bring any major
impact.
[Foreign Language] (47:38-47:58)
And in terms of the vehicle unit volume, it might not have the major impact. However, the sterling
pound is depreciating. And then so that foreign exchange rate might have the impact upon our
business operation which might be some negative impact.
Q - Operator
Okay. And my next question on markets is in Southeast Asia. I think at the beginning of the year,
you were anticipating a decline in Thailand and I believe general weakness throughout Southeast
Asia. Instead, it seems that the Thai market is actually growing now on a year-on-year and so is
the Indonesian market. So, I'm wondering if you could just kind of discuss how you see those
markets in Southeast Asia trending, and whether your view has improved and whether you think
that improvement can be sustained? Thanks.
[Foreign Language] (49:11-49:51)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `Yes, sir. Actually, in Thailand, the market, I think, the condition has been improving. And then it is
based upon the following factors mainly the Thai government has implemented the economic
stimulus policies, and then the auto companies I think are launching the new models as well. So,
these are good factors in the Thai market. And then so compared to the start of the year, we
have amended – revised our outlook upwards.
[Foreign Language] (51:04-51:10)
So, we have upwardly revised our fiscal year – the sales forecast upward by 60,000 units
compared to the previous forecast in the Asia market.
Foreign Language] (51:38-51:50)
For example, the new IMV series of vehicles are to be fully launched in the Asia market and then
the sales activities will be enhanced as well.
[Foreign Language] (52:01-52:14)
In addition, in the Indonesian market we are launching one after another, the good, the new
models of minivans.
[Foreign Language] (52:27-52:54)
And in addition, when we look at the country-based analysis, the Philippines and India and
Vietnam and Taiwan, the markets are really recovering now. So, and that is the overall recovery
trend in Asia. And those are the factors that we decided to revise our outlook upward by 60,000
units this time.
Q - Operator
Thank you. What is the absolute volume number that you have for the region, for the year?
[Foreign Language] (53:30-53:38)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
[Foreign Language] (53:39-53:53)
For this Asian market, our outlook forecast of the units throughout this year is 1.47 million units.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (54:10)
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you very much. It seems there are no more questions. So, this concludes today's
conference call now. If you require further information, please contact our IR representatives in
New York or London. Thank you very much for joining us today. Good bye.