Q1 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Our first question comes from `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC of Evercore ISI. Go ahead your line is open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC `
Yes, good afternoon it's `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC from Evercore. Two questions please if I may, the first
one on the U.S., we've discussed the market intensely just a couple of months ago and your
inventory situation and mix as well. I just wonder whether you could give us an update on where
you currently see the market. I realize that you have added the U.S. to the risk section in your
outlook statement, and you've taken out Russia. But of course, if the U.S. starts slowing for BMW,
that would have a much, much bigger impact on your numbers.
The second question, just briefly on inventories. As always, first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, pretty strong increase in
inventories, €2 billion roughly this `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, €1.7 billion the year before. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that's quite usual. Could
you give us some color on how you expect the inventory reduction to proceed over the coming`quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mixs? And also in that context, whether you can keep the operational leverage and the level
of profitability that you've just shown in `the first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, the ratio stood at 1.9%, due to seasonal factors. The ratio for the full year should this year? Thank you very much.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay, thank you very much, Arndt. This will be answered by Fritz Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, let me start with the U.S. question first. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, I think it has a bit to do with the year 2015 and
what we experienced in the U.S. market. Everybody was in the beginning of the year very bullish
with the U.S. market, trying to compensate for shortfalls in China, so a lot of activity, high
competitiveness, and everybody brought a lot of product into the market.
It was – became visible that `the first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, the ratio stood at 1.9%, due to seasonal factors. The ratio for the full year should in U.S. was not as strong as expected, and we took a
decision early on to clean up inventories to prepare for maybe a more flatter market, and that is
actually what we are doing those days. And where we think it should come to an end in the
second `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix. And then we would see a much more healthier position overall for the BMW
business in the U.S., because the inventory pressure will certainly be relieved. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that's the plan,
and it has some consequences, therefore we are working – adjusting our production plans and
reallocating more SUVs to the U.S. and working on a better mix, and things like that are also on
the way.
In a nutshell, it means we have a bit slower market in first two months – in the first two `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mixs –
and should recover then in the second half of the year. That's our expectation, and this will be
supported for growing volume of our 7 Series and for X1 at the same point in time. And with the
support of our higher capacity in the Spartanburg Plant.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that's at least the plan, and how we're working. A similar picture we've seen in China. We've
seen we have some inventories side, and we do the clean up now.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, now the question about the inventory, again, keep in mind our really strong working capital
management in `the first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, the ratio stood at 1.9%, due to seasonal factors. The ratio for the full year should of 2015. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that we brought inventory levels down, with positive
`effects, revenues increased slightly.The BMW Group pre-tax earnings increased to €2.37 billion, a slight increase of 4.4% over the first in the last `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix of 2015, and now we have to prepare for higher sales in 2016. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that the
pattern will be that we have working capital to be build up in `the first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, the ratio stood at 1.9%, due to seasonal factors. The ratio for the full year should and the third
`quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix. We bring it down, to a certain extent, in the second `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix and then heavily in the fourth
`quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix.
It has also to do with the launch dates and the product to come in. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, that is something we have
planned. That is clear to us, and we are working on that. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that it's not something that was a surprise
to us, it was built in to our numbers, and is necessary in order to supply for the markets that are
now supposed to sell stronger in the months to come.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that's more or less the background.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC `
`Now, let's move onto the Financial Services segment. BMW Group Financial Services continued on, should that reversal of working capital lead to better operational leverage in the coming
`quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mixs, or worse operational leverage?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Arndt, you are aware we are not giving any guidance for `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mixs. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, that's still our rule, and –
but I think I gave a clear message that we're doing some clean-up and we're waiting to get somebenefits, especially in the second half of the year, and that is basically the message I want to give.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group LLC `
All right. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Marc Tonn of Warburg Research. Go ahead sir, your
line is open.
Q - `Marc-René Tonn, Warburg Research GmbH
`Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. 2016 marks the year of the BMW Group's centenary. A gentlemen. Just a question on the foreign exchange, I think you said this
morning – or just confirmed that you're expecting a three digit million tailwind from FX, perhaps
you could give us some (33:53) whether this will be more back-end loaded or how much of this
had already been, let's say, recorded in `the first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, the ratio stood at 1.9%, due to seasonal factors. The ratio for the full year should? And how much risk were you suppose
we got do (34:01) assessment, assuming that potentially a lot of this non-hedge position is in
emerging market's currencies versus what you already, let's say, have in your books for U.S. dollar
and renminbi? Perhaps some indication on that would be very helpful. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much, Marc. Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Basically, we have not seen much of the tailwind in `the first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, the ratio stood at 1.9%, due to seasonal factors. The ratio for the full year should. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, there's more expected in
the next three `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mixs, to be seen. But overall, it will be a lower three digit million number, FX
and raw material together. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, that's what we guided, and we still expect this to come.
Emerging markets always a bit tricky because it's hard to hedge, as you know, so we have very
solid positions in the major currencies. We are almost hedged on this, so that's very clear to us,
but emerging market, it is at always hard to predict.
Q - `Marc-René Tonn, Warburg Research GmbH
Thank you
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you. Thank you very much. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. Go ahead ma'am. Your line
is open.
Q - `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi, it's `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. My first question is just carrying on from the FX point. Youcould you just update on where you stand the next year as well on FX?
And then my second question it relates to China, you've obviously done a bond in China now, and
I was just wondering what your outlook is for the Financial Services segment there, if you're
seeing opportunities for leasing growth as well as further finance penetration in the market and if
you got any update on your great outlooks for the market? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much. Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Hi, Kristina so basically you know we are very conservative company, so clearly we took risk out
for 2017 already. We have a good position in the major currencies and that as I said, should give
us a position with less risks when it comes down to FX.
Talking about China, we have a growing Financial Services business in China and there is basically
a growing need for financing. We are quite happy that we were successful now with the first
bond.
I think this is opening up new opportunities for us and we will have to use them going forward. As
we still think that China is a growth opportunity for us in the next couple of years. `Now, let's move onto the Financial Services segment. BMW Group Financial Services continued on the market
is also diversifying so we see the first steps towards leasing. We are trying to build up the first –
while the business opportunities. It will not be a big part of our business, so the major business
will still be on the long side, but we look into it as the market is further maturing.
Q - `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much. Kristina next question please.
Operator
Thanks. Our next question comes from `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) of UBS. Go ahead sir, your line is open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) `
Yes. Thanks good afternoon everyone. a strategic question. I am wondering to which extent were
you surprise the reservation figures we got for the Tesla Model 3 in the first few days after the
launch? And to which extent you're actually see an impact on the 3 Series sales in particular in the
coming couple of years? Does that pull away some demand from this key product of BMW?
And second part of the question. Does the strong interest in that model change your view on
when to launch the next large EV? You told us couple of months ago that the next launch is going
to happen only after 2020. In light of this data point from Tesla is that, they still set in stone or are
you thinking about bringing that forward given strong demand?
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much, Patrick. Mr. Krüger please?A - Harald Krüger
The first question was on the Tesla Model 3, I would like first thing we work on new arrivals in the
area and the time of electric mobility, because that will help us to develop that market and we
strongly believe on sustainable mobility for the future. I mean, if its – will have an impact on the 3
Series we will see in the future, but that is definitely an area and ground where we would like to
fight and protect what we do in between, because the question was, is there anything else what
we can do.
We are starting already in this year with – in the second half of 2016 we are increasing the battery
capacity of the i3 which will have than 50% more model range and capacity battery wise, and we
are still working in the future on more.
And the second one, we decided also to do an i8 Roadster in 2018 to expand the i family. And
then the iNEXT will come at the beginning of the next decade. The question is why is it late 2020
or beyond, because we also would like not just look on electro mobility, also on autonomous
`driving, digital connectivity, intelligent lightweight construction and next-generation electric, on light weight structures and connectivity in interior of the future.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that we would like to have a car and continue the i success story on a car, which is not just moving
and focusing on E-mobility, also on new areas of connectivity, on E-mobility as well as
autonomous `driving, digital connectivity, intelligent lightweight construction and next-generation electric, and that takes little bit of time. But we will see – I appreciate that we have
now some support in the German country about electro-mobility, but I believe this market will
develop in the future. The biggest market for E-mobility might be China in future.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Michael Tyndall of Citigroup. Go ahead, sir. Your line is
open.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Yeah. Hi there it's `Mike Tyndall, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. from Citi, couple of questions, if I may. Just focusing on the U.S.
again Dr. Eichiner, I wonder if you could just remind us how many off-lease cars you've got this
year versus last year?
And then maybe I'm reading between the lines here, but you have seen a bit more relaxed about
used pricing versus when we saw you in the middle of March, I am wondering if that's a fair
description of how you are feeling about used vehicle prices in the U.S. right now?
And then the second question, I guess looking a lot further forward to your next strategy and the
`development, such as the continuing normalization of the Chinese market, recessive that you are doing on that front. I wonder if you can maybe give us a bit more detail
I've realized its early days, but I mean, is this something that you are looking to work with partners
or is this something you are doing exclusively by yourself? Is it an open architecture where other
people come along at the later stage?
I am just wondering how this fits with the rest of the industry and whether or not you see a reason
for doing this all by yourself or in fact you're actually being the pioneer and hoping that other
people will follow and use your technology in the future. Thanks.
A - Maximilian SchöberlThank you, Mike. As we start with Mr. Krüger and then Mr. Eichiner.
A - Harald Krüger
On the next strategy there was a question for more detail and looking for partners, I would like
just to take two examples. The one is, in the future we will also need fuel cell cars and with fuel
cell technology and we are, for example, a good correlation with Toyota motorcars we are
developing components together for future generation of fuel cell cars and that is a strong
partnership. We also have a partnership with Toyota on the sports car. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that is just one example
where we, if we will find win-win. We are looking for partners.
Second one, what you can see is the Nokia HERE – acquisition HERE, for example. Where you sign
for the next generation and the `Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT, we will expand our product portfolio to all of our brands and, the digitalization of the maps for
autonomous `driving, digital connectivity, intelligent lightweight construction and next-generation electric, for more safer `driving, digital connectivity, intelligent lightweight construction and next-generation electric is absolutely important. The way we decided together
was Daimler and Audi to buy Nokia HERE to have the best digital maps and as you could see this
wouldn't be worthwhile for one company only, but on the other side, we would like to be in a
substantial good financial performance on foundation that we can fund the future, for example,
the next level of efficient engines, or the next level of digital connectivity in the car that we can
fund this by ourselves. But the strategy is also where we find the good partner and we believe
we can find a win-win, we will go for it.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you. Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, basically your question about the maturity used cars in the U.S. market. I would – it's a
diverse picture. First of all, of course, we feel some pressure on Sedans, why? First of all the
volumes are bit higher than in 2015. Secondly, we have this shift from Sedans to the SUVs in the
market. It also plays a role. But having said that, we also have countermeasures, because it was
clear that this would come and we have positive when it comes down to used car pricing on the
SUV side and a bit more pressure on the Sedan side.
Overall, it's not yet really washing (43:46) through and we have other markets like the German
market where used car pricing is improving. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, the portfolio financial services is still in a healthy
condition overall. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, – and it's reflected in our `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix – in our first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix as well. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that's how
we look at it. `Now, let's move onto the Financial Services segment. BMW Group Financial Services continued on we have to see how this works out over the rest of the year.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you, Michael. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) of HSBC. Go ahead, sir. Your line is
open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `Yes. Its Horst here from HSBC. I've got a few questions. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that first of all maybe you can give us an
update on the other cost changes that we can expect in the next few `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mixs I mean in Q1 we
didn't see anything that was really a burden so maybe a update on that and then second I want
to know your view on the regulation that is coming up in China. I want to know your view, what is –
what you consider more as a risk the emission regulation in China or the emission regulation that
is coming up in Europe? I want to know what is your response to the upcoming threats and risks
for foreign carmakers regarding these emission regulation in China. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that we'll start with Mr. Eichiner and then Mr. Krüger. Mr. Eichiner, please?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, let's start with the other cost changes. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that this year overall it will be fairly flat but we think
maybe a slight improvement of a mid double-digit million number. This is what we are expecting
in this particular year.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
That's a burden on improvement
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
As I said a slight improvement of as I said a mid double-digit million number.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
All right. Okay.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you, Fritz. Mr. Krüger.
A - Harald Krüger
The regulations in China about emission, I don't see that as a risk, I see that a challenge. But you
can see that worldwide we will see stronger regulations on emissions currently – probably the
biggest regulation we have in Europe for the 2020 targets. But yeah, I will expect and that's why
we are so focusing on sustainable mobility, e-mobility in other cars as well and plug-in hybrids.
That's what I said in my speech we will have now, by the middle of this year already, also 5
iPerformance models on the brand BMW on the market, which is the next X5 (46:27) plug-in
hybrid which is, for example, very successful in certain countries in Europe. We have the 2 Series
Active Tourer hybrid. We have in China a 5 Series locally produced and a standard plug-in hybrid.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that we will have enough cars in our portfolio which are electrified and we also have battery electric
vehicles for the future. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that is the way we need to attack this one in every country. But the
emissions side will be tough in each of the countries worldwide.
But I think we are prepared in our product portfolio and in our `Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT, we will expand our product portfolio to all of our brands and we
also said that we are focusing on EfficientDynamics NEXT, yeah – EfficientDynamics 2.0 saying wewill invest also into the combustion engines to make them further efficient and electrifying the
whole portfolio.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
All right. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that if I get it right, then these (47:19) consumption targets that we get in China by 2020 is
not really considered as a risk for you and also new emission rules like B6, C6 (47:28) in China
which makes the combustion engine much more expensive, also that will be no challenge for you,
or risk?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
That's something which is not absolutely unexpected. It was part of our long-range planning that
things like these will come in China. To meet them is definitely a challenge for everyone but that
is part of our strategy, yeah, to be successful with those challenging environments. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that it's not
unexpected for us.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
All right. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much, `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker). Next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Stuart Pearson, Exane Ltd. of Exane BNP Paribas. Go ahead sir,
your line is open.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Exane Ltd. `
Yeah, good afternoon. Thank you. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that two or three questions, on the U.S. on the capacity side, I
think you said that you're re-orientating your capacity to have more SUV supply. But just more
specifically I just wanted to check what that meant. Does that mean adding any fixed cost or is
this just adding shifts and boosting productivity? `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that maybe you could elaborate a little bit on that.
And also perhaps the flip side of that from a Sedan side, when you reduce supply capacity there
is that reducing shifts or you're able to take any fixed cost out? `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that was the first question.
The second one was just on the head count, because I noticed that Q1 seems to be your slowest
rate of increase in head count for around four years or five years, so is that a new normal or was
that a temporary pause? Are you finding ways to boost productivity, which I guess has been
relatively flat for the last few years at a high level?
And then just a final question, maybe technical, following up on Horst's question on the other line
item, the fact it's now turning more positive, yet finance penetration, lease penetration, is still
quite high. Does that mean that your leases are now less profitable than the last two years or
three years, is that the correct interpretation? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much Stuart, and this will be answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `Well, okay. First, let's talk about the effect of the capacity expansion in U.S. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that – just to give you a
few numbers, last year, we sold in the U.S. 404,000 MINIs and BMWs. And only 30% were actually
leased. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that the market is now gaining more and more momentum on the SUV side, driven by the
low oil prices.
This year, it would be possible to increase the SUV share up to 40%. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that – that is so what we are
targeting. Otherwise, achieving it clearly is – an increase of capacities in – especially in
Spartanburg, we are working of course extra shifts, but we also have to make investments on the
supplier side, all to get a kind of – will give us additional volume, not only for the U.S. market,
because, yes, the demand for SUVs is also increasing in other markets as well. That's basically the
plan.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that far, the substitution is not as high, in order to give us a big problem for plants where we are
producing sedans, so sedans are still well-balanced. We are adding new models. And we are
ramping up like the 7 Series. The new – keep in mind, the new 5 Series is already on the horizon.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that it's a lot – and new stuff to come to the market, and this will help us as well.
`Now, let's move onto the Financial Services segment. BMW Group Financial Services continued on, just to make that clear, the other cost that Horst mentioned, that had to do with our EBIT
bridge in the Auto sector, where we have a one item. We are talking about future costs, efficiency
gains and things like that. And that position, I mentioned, (51:13) is positive by a mid-size double-
digit million number, it has nothing to do with the Eliminations that is associated to the leasing
business.
We expect earnings posted by the Eliminations and other entity `segments, with an additional model for the luxury class, an X7 to complement our X family, in 2016 to be in
negative low triple-digit million euro territory, just to make that number clear also. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
(51:41)?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, we – I forgot a very important answer. You asked about the head count. Well, we said that
the company will grow in 2016 at a lower pace. That is always an opportunity to work on efficiency,
as we don't have to manage many launches this year, and that's what we're trying to do. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, we
have an eye on efficiency and it should be reflected in the head count number as well.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Exane Ltd. `
Okay, great. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much, Stuart. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany) of Kepler Cheuvreux. Go ahead sir , your
line is open.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany) `
Yeah. Thanks. Mike Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux. There were press reports that most recently, you
apparently lost a couple of key people off your BMW i project crew to start-ups in Asia. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, I waswondering whether this is an indication that BMW i internally is now enjoying less problems than it
may have a few years ago.
And perhaps, also in conjunction with that, if that hypothetically was to be the case, knowing – or
apparently expecting that you're not going to launch a third all-new model under the BMW i brand
before the end of this decade, which apparently is not going to make any major contributions to
reaching the 2020 targets, isn't that perhaps implicitly a positive signaling on the progress you
believe to be able to make on the efficiency improvement front of your traditional combustion
engines?
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, I think we start with the first part of your question with Mr. Krüger, BMW i project.
A - Harald Krüger
The question on the BMW i project and the people, yeah, it's overall four people who have left
the company. Not all were working still in the i project, yeah, so there – some or one person was
just already on another job for a couple of months already – not just six and longer (53:39), and
that is not unusual, that people are leaving the company.
It was not the project unit, just some people out of the team, and we are continuing the work
there. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that that is happening sometimes in business, and it's not something which we believe is
affecting us, because we have good people which we further develop.
We have new projects in the i area with the i8 Roadster, with the further `development, such as the continuing normalization of the Chinese market, recessive of the i3
and, as you can see, we will also be very busy already with the iNEXT, because all the R&D
`development, such as the continuing normalization of the Chinese market, recessive work starts now. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that we will see that the i brand, which has been so far very
successful, we will continue to further develop, and we have people on board to do so.
The second question, maybe we're not quite sure if we understood that right, maybe you can
repeat that for me?
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany) `
Yeah, I'm more than happy to rephrase, of course. (54:38) `Now, let's move onto the Financial Services segment. BMW Group Financial Services continued on, my understanding was that a
third new model under the i brand is not going to be launched before the end of this decade. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that,
one, was that in fact, (54:48) electric powertrains are currently reducing the average CO2
emission of your fleet.
`Now, let's move onto the Financial Services segment. BMW Group Financial Services continued on, if apparently a new model is not being launched before the end of this decade, it means on
the reverse, that it's not making any major contributions to reaching the 95 gram target in 2020.
It means however, implicitly, that you will – must believe to be able to make according progress
on the traditional, i.e., conventional combustion engines, to basically get there without a high
electric share, is that correct? And if so, what would be the key (55:21) for that please?
A - Harald Krüger
Okay. That's clear now. First of all, we – on the CO2 stretch, we are reducing emissions. We work
on three main pillars, the one is, making our current engines, diesel and petrol engines, more
efficient, which we call EfficientDynamics NEXT. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that we have invested heavily also already into the
engine area, making engines more efficient, and you will see that in the next years to come
already. That's one proportion which is contributing to the lower emissions.The second one, well, we are not talking about only about the battery electric vehicles, we will
have an expansion of the plug-in hybrids in the portfolio, yeah. And these are significantly
contributing to the reduction of the CO2 targets as well with the 2 Series Active Tourer, with the
X5 Series plug-in hybrid, the 3 Series plug-in hybrid, the 7 Series plug-in hybrid. We already see an
increase in demand this year taken up by customers. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that there's already people in some countries
where we also see an order income which is quite positive.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that with this one it will also contributed on the side of electrification, it's not battery electric
vehicles only. And the other one we will offer by the end of second half of 2016 already for BMW
i3 models, we have two different ranges and with one range extender or without range extender,
so the customers can choose. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that with all three pillars in terms of further developing the iNEXT on
electric and the i8 and the Roadster, as well as the i3 for the (56:57) cars, was a contribution.
Secondly were the plug-in hybrids expansion which we will see in the next years to come and
more efficient combustion and diesel engines, we will meet the targets.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany) `
Okay. Given your comments, Mr. Krüger, I sense a certain optimism of yours concerning the
increase of the share of plug-in hybrids in the next years. This being said, could you perhaps re-
present the numbers and tell us what you think the share of plug-in hybrids out of your total
global sales in 2020 was going to be, please?
A - Harald Krüger
No, that's too difficult to forecast. See, if I would know this one I would do maybe something
different, no? Yeah, but no, that's really difficult. But I can tell you from the first market feedback
we have seen so far, yeah. Take one example in Beijing where we are selling X5s, the
percentage of X5s with the plug-in hybrid has come up to 40% of the mix already, yeah, which is
also relating to is there any subsidies, is there support, is the infrastructure available. But that's
difficult to forecast. But we will see an increasing demand on plug-in hybrids especially for long-
distance `driving, digital connectivity, intelligent lightweight construction and next-generation electric.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany) `
Okay. All right. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much, `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany). I think ladies and gentlemen we have time for one more
question.
Operator
Thank you. And the final question comes from `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America. Go ahead sir, your
line is open.
Q - `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi, good afternoon. It's `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Just wanted to come back to the issue
of these other costs or the future costs relative to efficiency savings in the Auto division. As you
said you're expecting actually a moderate tailwind from that in 2016. Can you talk about that in
the out years in 2017 and 2018, perhaps how you would think that balance of future cost steps up
relative to efficiency measures is going to trend beyond 2016. I guess, what I am really trying tolook out there is – it is an unusually positive year in terms of the cost savings that you're seeing
coming through the business and should those future cost step ups begin to be more of a weight
in the years subsequent to 2016?
And then just one final question on China and BBA. Could you give us some idea what the
underlying profitability of that business would have been year-on-year ex the product start-up
costs for the new model. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that just on an underlying volume and price basis, what would your net
contribution would have been from BBA year-on-year? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much Fraser for your final question to be answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, you are asking about future cost, so basically I don't give you – can kind of give you a
number now for 2018, 2019 or 2020 because there's a lot still on the move. We see two trends.
First of all, we have to consider additional costs that will come in, in order to develop new
technologies that we desperately need for autonomous `driving, digital connectivity, intelligent lightweight construction and next-generation electric, for emission reduction, the CO2
reduction, electrification, all that stuff will still play a huge role going forward.
I think we have to carry that burden in order to be competitive and this is something that on the
other hand then has to be compensated, looking for countermeasures where we look to every
and each corner of the company. We work on head count as well as we are working on the
purchasing side, material cost side, taking complexity out of the company. For example,
streamlining our portfolio as we did now with many similar ideas of our BMW portfolio on the way.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, there are more than one idea and more than one measure that has to be implemented in
order to compensate the burden.
That is something that we did over the last couple of years. And so far it worked always out. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that,
keep in mind that the company was able to keep profitability in a range of 8% to 10% now quite
for a while.
`So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that, and this is still our commitment going forward. But we don't have now taken a decision for
every and each measure for 2018 to get to this point. There's still a lot of work to be done. `So, after three months, we remain on track to achieve our targets for 2016. This assumes that,
that's one point.
Your second question then, what about China BBA profitability, net contribution of BBA. Well, what
we can see is that we have – in `the first `quarter, compared with last year. During the first two (sic) [three] (20:04) months, the vehicle mix, the ratio stood at 1.9%, due to seasonal factors. The ratio for the full year should, €101 million. That is the result, right? That we
have, that's the profit. But, I mean, you have to take into account that actually we're building up
capacity, we are localizing new products, so we have now a certain burden for future investments
within BBA, because another three models will be launched in the Chinese market, all locally
produced and therefore we have to carry the burden on the cost side as well.
But having said that at that point in time, this is the next step for growing the business within BBA
as well. And the operational performance that's something that we really can confirm is
absolutely in line with our expectations.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you very much. Mr. Eichiner. `Ladies and gentlemen, over the coming months and years, we will gradually be implementing our, thank you for joining us today. We wish
you a pleasant day. Bye-bye, and thank you very much.
OperatorThis now concludes the conference. Thank you very much for attending. You may now disconnect
your lines.