Q2 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. Our first question is from the line of `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) of UBS. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) `
Thank you. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. `The BMW, MINI and BMW Motorrad brands all reported new half-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. highs. Our key financials for Group's positive business performance, gentlemen. I would have two questions, please. The first one relates
to your comment about increasing competition in the market with more discounts being seen;
can you be a bit more granular on the trends that you see by region? You already mentioned the
situation in the U.S. is quite competitive and difficult, but what about Europe and China, any latest
thoughts on these markets? And in that regard, how does the high production figure, you had
50,000 more units produced than delivered in the first half, how does that fit into the landscape?
And my second question, regarding the Chinese JV, you had a drop in earnings in the second
quarter `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly.-over-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., I guess a significant chunk is related to the launches that happened there
during the quarter. But I was wondering if you can give us an update, to which extent that
profitability level in China should improve again in the second half? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for, Patrick. So we'll start with Mr. Eichiner and the increasing competition,
and then `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead. about China and high production figures.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Mr. Hummel, so first of all, let's start again with North America. There, in `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to market, competition
is really fierce, and `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to has an effect on pricing, as everybody was pushing into the market in
2015. `Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six we've seen a peak of sales in 2015 already, and we should not expect another peak
`this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly.. That's what we've seen already in the beginning `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016..
We started cutting down inventory levels and trying to compensate against the pressure we see
in the market. But at the end of the day, there is an effect on pricing, a negative effect on pricing,
particularly in `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to market. `Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six, as we think we've cleaned up most of the inventories after the
`second quarter, net financial assets in the Automotive segment totaled €16.49 billion., we're looking forward in a more healthier second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up., where new
models, like the new X1 could play a role, and the new 7 Series at the same point in time. That's
the situation in the U.S.
Europe, fairly stable, pricing environment also fairly stable. In some markets, we even couldis also doing a bit better than expected. So, first of all, we see growth in China again, and the
environment so far is fairly stable in a more normalized market environment. That's what we can
say about the market. So in a nutshell, U.S. is a concern, the rest is doing quite well.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead.?
A - Harald Krüger
Mr. Hummel, about the production figures, if you compare that ones to the Q2 of 2015, you have
to keep two things in mind. 2015 `second quarter, net financial assets in the Automotive segment totaled €16.49 billion. was a lower production number, because we
had the run out of the previous X1 and the previous 7 Series. We are now running at full
production for the new X1 as well as the new 7 Series. Also, the MINI Convertible is in supply,
which is a seasonal product, where you have the highest demand in quarter two and quarter
three. So overall, we're keeping the pipelines very tight. If you look at the overall picture, it's
definitely fine. But `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is just quarter two 2015 to 2016 has a special effect due to the run out.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) `
Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Yes. About China BBA, Mr. Eichiner...
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Few words about BBA, basically we expect that the sales will grow – and especially in local site,
will be in parts of the (35:26) new X1. Having said that, we have to consider that new launches
that we are preparing will bring some burden with it and that is the reason why we cannot rule out
that the profit of BBA `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. would be slightly below last `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly.'s numbers.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) `
Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. Next question please.
Operator
Over to line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group L.L.C. at Evercore ISI. Please go ahead, Arndt, your line is open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group L.L.C. `
Yeah, thank you very much. It's `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group L.L.C. from Evercore. Two questions, one on CapEx
please and one just coming back to production. Firstly, on CapEx, your investment in property,
plant, and equipment was down by about 36% in H1, which was a huge decline. And I think none
of us has ever seen that from any carmaker outside a major recession. So, really well done on
handling the business there.
`Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six, we all know in the second half, CapEx will rise and carmakers spend normally 6% of their
CapEx really in Q4. But could you give us some color on your full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. projections for yourinvestment activity and will CapEx be down and by how much roughly versus the €3.7 billion last
`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly.?
And then also following on from that on cash flow, can you say by now that your free cash flow will
be well in over €3 billion in 2016?
And on production, you just talked about the very high production figure in the `second quarter, net financial assets in the Automotive segment totaled €16.49 billion., up
16% on a consolidated basis. Can you talk a little bit about the utilization effects, the operational
leverage effects, and how that develops into the second half? Will you benefit from similar
operational efficiency when it comes to production in the second half? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. We start with `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead. about the production utilization and then Mr.
Eichiner. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., please.
A - Harald Krüger
Mr. Ellinghorst, on the production side is, what you do in the quarter two is also to supply quarter
three and overseas production which has lead times sometimes between six weeks to eight
weeks, transportation time, and should go through the Asian markets for example or Africa,
Japan or even through the U.S. And as we have, for example, shutdowns in August, in Germany,
and our German plants, we currently have a two weeks shutdown in Dingolfing, for example.
That's why you increase production into the `second quarter, net financial assets in the Automotive segment totaled €16.49 billion., as long as you don't have the run out
phase to have the supply on time for the demand of the third quarter, because August is also
shutdown periods in many of our plants in the international networks. So we're utilizing `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to one.
This is what we did – if you look at `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to one, I compared it with the 2014 figures, we're little bit
below the 2014 figure.
Second quarter 2015, as I mentioned before was very special, because the start of production for
the new 7 Series and the new X1 was on July 1. So quarter two in 2015 was mainly driven by two
big run out of 7 Series and X1, and X1 is a big volume lever.
And thirdly, we started the increase of the production of the X1 long wheelbase in China at the
end of May, which will have now peaks in the quarter three and quarter four. But overall, we are
keeping the pipeline very tight. The stocks are on track. The things we did in the U.S. (38:54)
successfully in the first half, but that's the operational full standard normal plan. There is nothing
which is not normal.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Coming back to your question about the CapEx ratio. So, first of all, we have to see `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. is
not a `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. where we have many launches. But we have a major one in the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up.
and `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is basically the 5 Series launch, which will drive all the CapEx. And so first `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up.,
as I said, not many launches and a low momentum on the CapEx side, second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up. will
pick up. At the end `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., we expect CapEx ratio to be between 5% and 4%, so at a level of
more or less of last `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly..
`Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six your question about the free cash flow, what we've seen so far is that we increased working
capital now in the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up., it must be possible to reduce it again and `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to will havea positive influence on the free cash flow; same point in time, CapEx will pickup. So we've two
controversial development.
At the end of the day, when our plans will materialize, I think the free cash flow should again be
strong and above the €3 billion. How – by how much, `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is now depending on the sales results of
the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up..
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore Group L.L.C. `
All right. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. Next question please.
Operator
Is over to the line of `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) at Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
Yes. So, it's `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker), Deutsche Bank. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for for taking the questions. I would
have three please, or let's start with two maybe. Mr. Eichiner, can you just update us again what
you see on the residual value side, and particularly in the U.S., has there been any impairments
yet? Do you any need for the second half, potentially? And then `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., you spoke about the
very interesting cooperation with Intel and Mobileye, and can you just help us understand again
who keeps the IP in `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to corporation and what you consider to be BMW's core competence in the
autonomous car for the future? Thank you?
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. We'll start with Mr. Eichiner and then `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead..
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Basically, the residual values worldwide are under control, even (41:26) release of provisions in
markets like Germany. The critical market and you mentioned it, is the U.S., that is not
unexpected. So we have provision for that. And we are expecting deteriorating used car prices
over the next couple of `months, concluding more than 874,000 new leasing and financing contracts with retail customers. in the U.S. market being driven out of the market situation where
there is pressure on the new car pricing, and `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to also is later on reflected on the used car side.
That's what we are expecting in the market. But overall, there should not be a need for
impairments in that field.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead..
A - Harald Krüger
The Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT clearly focuses on the autonomous driving and `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is what
we did in a two-step approach. The first step is the acquisition of HERE, because you need for the
autonomous driving, a highly accurate and a high-density live map, which is the first step,
otherwise you can't do it. The second step is the corporation with Intel and Mobileye. What is the
reason, why Intel? When you need or if you go to the autonomous driving, you needAnd the other one, Mobileye is bringing in its knowledge about sensors and models around the
cars, and we're bringing in our motion control and full systems integration knowledge. So every
one of these three parties is bringing their best knowledge together to develop autonomous
driving. We also would like to create an open standard platform, and we see that their other
partners could join that, because we believe that a platform and a standard in the autonomous
driving would make it much more safer for the future as well. So it's a clear two-step strategy,
been successful so far, (43:27) and we are `target, as planned.ing the BMW i NEXT in 2021 for that.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for, `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead.. Next question please.
Operator
We now go to the line of `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. at Barclays. Please do go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Yes. Thank you. `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. Just got a question, clearly your share price right
now is reflecting some issues on the cycle for the sector as a whole. I know in the past, you've
talked about the 8% to 10% margin being through the cycle. Do you still believe that the 8% is a
worst case scenario for the shares, if we were to see downturns across the global sectors as
some in the market is fearing (44:15)?
And then my second question is also related to the share price and how to extract value. You've
talked a lot about autonomous driving and technology, and we are aware of all the work that
you've been doing there. But how do you think you couldn't – that the shareholders will see that
coming back into value in the business. Currently, obviously, there is a lot of spending being done
on these areas. But what can you do, do you think, to make the market realize how much
technology there is sitting within BMW and therefore to value that at a reasonable price?
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for, Kristina. So we start with Mr. Eichiner and then `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead.. Mr. Eichiner,
please.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, hello, Kristina. So first of all, well, I don't want to comment on the share price a lot. That's not
my part. But on some factors you mentioned, first of all, I think we have to see that we've done a
lot in order to level out the cyclical elements in our business. Our global footprint is now much
better balanced than it was in the past. And our portfolio of cost is much broader.
In the context of Strategy NUMBER ONE, we realized a much `higher, due to model launches and the usual seasonal factors. In addition, the upfront level of profitability. `Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six, we
demonstrated 25 `quarters, we have achieved an EBIT margin in our Automotive segment within our `target, as planned. range of in a role that the company is capable to keep its profitability in a range
of 8% to 10% or above. We expect that `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to will due for `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. as well. `Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six, it's up to the capital
market to agree that (45:52) as we were in the past.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for, Mr. Eichiner. And the second part was about the autonomous driving, how
can shareholders see that's coming back, `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead..
A - Harald KrügerKristina, welcome. The key point, `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is first of all a long-term view on that, because we need to
have a clear strategy to achieve autonomous driving. Why is `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to one important? On the one side,
it can make driving much more safer in the future, which is I think a huge benefit for the society
and for all of us.
Secondly, assume one example, if you go into the rural areas in the U.K., maybe people can't
participate in the mobility and the traffic and driving a car. So you can have, in the future maybe,
people benefiting and using autonomous cars to be part of the mobile world again.
Thirdly, as you can have `services, and is recruiting qualified specialists for these areas. For the six month period, the BMW around, for example, in the car sharing, it would be an offer. Our
Chinese customers, for example, are having 30 days the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., they're standing in a traffic jam. If
you offer them autonomous driving during `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to time, you can do banking, you can do maybe see a
movie, you can leisure. So there is a lot of features which you can offer as `services, and is recruiting qualified specialists for these areas. For the six month period, the BMW or as relaxing
offer to the customers, where you differentiate maybe for the competition. So the money will
come back, and it's also good for the safety of the future of driving.
Q - `Kristina Church, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Very clear. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. Next question, please.
Operator
Go to Daniel Schwarz at MainFirst Bank. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
I apologize, we're actually going over to `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Fraser, please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. `The BMW, MINI and BMW Motorrad brands all reported new half-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. highs. Our key financials for Group's positive business performance. It's `Fraser Hill, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Two questions from me. The first one is
on your comments on hybrid and electric vehicles which, as you pointed out, the incoming orders
are now picking up quite nicely. So, could you just give a little bit of an update on the profit
contribution that you're starting to see, or otherwise, of those vehicles at the current run rate on
orders? Obviously, I mean, it (46:27) absorb some of the incentives in Germany, but you get
some support from governments outside of that market. So I'm sure you won't tell me what the
profitability of those vehicles is today, but are you seeing a positive profit contribution from those
vehicles, let's say, in the second half of 2016? And if not, in what `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. do you think we should start
to think about those vehicles becoming accretive in an absolute sense to your profits?
Second question is a bit more short-term, just thinking about the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up.. And
obviously, you've talked about a low burden so far on launch costs, production ramp on new
models and so on and so forth. How should we think about that, just into the second half of the
`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly.? I mean, are we looking at sort of mid-triple-digit million launch costs for the 5 Series? And
any other sort of commentary you could give us, just to help us with the other comps in the auto
division, which continue to surprise on the low side? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for, Fraser. We start with `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead. about the PFs (49:01).A - Harald Krüger
Fraser, first of all, I think we're quite happy that we see an increase of 87% compared to the first
half of 2015 in the overall sales figures for the plug-in hybrids as well as the battery electric
vehicles, which is, in total, we sold 23,600. What you can see that the market is picking up. It
begins, but as I always stated, `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is a marathon, a marathon where you need to have three main
pillars driving the business. One is definitely that you have the range, and the car companies
offers an attractive car with enough range. Then you need the infrastructure. And the third one,
you need incentives. And what you can see, for example, in the order intake for the i3 in Europe,
as well in the Germany, is clearly picking up due to the incentives we have seen also in Germany
now. So, step-by-step, `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is definitely moving forward on `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to.
It is also important strategically to ramp up the electric vehicles to meet the CO2 2020 `target, as planned.s.
Without electrified cars, you can't meet 2020 `target, as planned.s in Europe, for example, in other parts of the
world. So, we have a clearly strategic interest in developing those markets, and we can see that.
In a market like `The Netherlands, for example, has been promoting e-mobility for quite some time. In June BMW i, for example, where there is a very good infrastructure available,
already 15% of our total sales of the brand BMW are electrified cars. So if all threes (48:59)
together there, like in Norway, and now we see things picking up in Germany, if you see The
Netherlands, those countries are driving new mobility, and I'm principal optimistic that the best
time is coming here.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. The second part will be answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, we already guided that, in the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up., we have to digest a `higher, due to model launches and the usual seasonal factors. In addition, the upfront cost, and
a part of `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to cost will be launch costs for new 5 Series, `higher, due to model launches and the usual seasonal factors. In addition, the upfront R&D spending that we are
expecting to come in the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up.. That's all part of the number, or the order of
magnitude we guided already for the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up., also nothing extra, it's all in.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. Next question, please.
Operator
We go to the line of `Lello della Ragione, Intermonte Sim SpA of Intermonte. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Thank you for taking my question. I have actually one on pricing in the U.S. You always mentioned
the overall market, and your strategy to focus on SUVs there, and I was wondering if you see
there is that, the pricing that is actually hard (50:16) in the passenger car, that trend could also
spread in the close future to the SUV demand? And on the other end – okay, let's see to `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to one
first, please, thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay, `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., please.
,A - Harald Krüger
I think as I fully understand your question, is there is a shift in the demand from SUVs to Sedans.
And clear answer is yes, you can see that across the globe, that in nearly every country, the
number of SUVs is increasing. BMW is in a good position because we have a perfect range of X3,
X4, X5, X6; in the future, we will have the X7 on the market. And we see that for example also in
the compact segment like where the X1 is operating, which is very successful, high on-demand.
You can see clearly a trend into SUVs even in China, for example, like in the U.S., like in Europe,
and that's a steady trend for the future.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Yeah, but the point is since everyone is looking at `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to trend and more and more companies are
focusing on SUVs, do you see the (53:03)?
A - Harald Krüger
I mean the competition gets more fierce, definitely everyone has a full spectrum to offer on `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to
one, but there are still opportunities, because there are still the change in certain markets where
they were buying Sedans in the past and they love the upper-right seating position and there are
still people who love the functionality of the SUVs and there you still see a change.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Okay. Thank you. The other question, you said, related to the net financial position in terms of the
minimum amount that you see as the right balance for your company going forward, if you can
give some (53:48) some guidance on the proper level that you should maintain over the cycle in
the long-term?
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Eichiner, please. Yes.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, based on our internal risk assessments and risk models, and based on the requirements,
we get from the rating agencies, we believe that we need €10 billion to €12 billion liquidity on our
balance sheet in order to protect our position going forward.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. I think we have time for one more question.
Operator
Okay. In that case, final question is from the line of `Stuart Pearson, Exane BNP Paribas at Exane BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead, Sir.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi, thank you. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. `The BMW, MINI and BMW Motorrad brands all reported new half-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. highs. Our key financials for Group's positive business performance. So couple of questions. Firstly, just looking ahead to the 5 Series
that comes later in the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., I mean, given the weakness, I guess, in the Sedan segments globally
right now, if you could talk about, I guess, your plans and expectations for that product (54:51) so
how you're thinking about capacity planning for the new model versus the old.And on the cost side for that model as well, I think when you launched the current generation
model, you hopefully, you talked about, I think from memory, something like 15% gross savings,
5% now. I wonder if there is any similar color you can give you on the cost side or say, even
there'll be any net saving given the costs that (55:14) models these days. So that was the first
there.
And then just a very quick follow-up on the pricing side, because I guess I'm a little bit confused
about what you're saying on pricing being intense competition, yet sequentially, your pricing
seems to be relatively flat, Mercedes sales positive, Audi not so bad. So, I just wonder where the
pricing pressure is coming from. So, are we seeing more of a challenge now to the German
oligopoly from any other brands (55:40) and of course, the Japanese makers using currency
gains, so just where that pricing pressure is coming from, not so much regionally, but in terms by
competitor. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. We start with `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead. and then Mr. Eichiner about the pricing.
A - Harald Krüger
The question was on the 5 Series and the plans and expectations on that. I mean, we have a clear
`target, as planned. for `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to one to be number one in `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to segment, because BMW was leading globally, clearly
with the current car, the 5 Series, as a segment leader, and nearly all over the world. And we will
do and `target, as planned. `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to one for the next generation as well. There is also very important car, which is
the 5 Series in China, as you know, also for the Chinese market, a more chauffeur-driven version
and the extended wheelbase is very important. So, plans are clearly `target, as planned.ing the number one
position globally.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for. Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, again, pricing, I think we've touched `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to already, but maybe I have to go into a bit more
detail for you. `Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six, basically, we go, look around the world, we have a different picture. Europe
actually is quite promising. We see a quite stable environment, and in some European markets,
we see some improvements; slight improvement, but improvement.
Same is true for China, after `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to strong development in 2015, what we call, normalization, it
seems to be that `this, we are establishing selected partnership. Together with Intel and Mobileye, we aim to is now flattening out, and we have a quite fairly stable environment in China
also. So, no further concerns about pricing there. And you asked it's still the concern, I explain why
because everybody was pumping into U.S. last `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly.. High inventories at all manufacturers. We
started early on to reduce; reducing means, you have to give support that was a burden in the
first `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up.. That was one of the reasons why pricing is not strengthening further.
`Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. The segment performed well in the first six the question is what should we expect from the second `half `of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., backed by its young and attractive model line-up.. We think we have a
chance to make a progress, not much, but another step, and it is supported by the better
product momentum, new cost coming in, like the X1, still a good selling 7 Series, and at the end
`of the `year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly., we now `forecast, development in China stabilized at high level. a solid increase in sales for the full-`year, which assume that economic and political conditions do not deteriorate significantly. 2016., we are waiting for the 5 Series to come. Those are the reasons.
A - Maximilian SchöberlSo ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us today. We wish you a pleasant
summer time and all the best to you. Bye-bye, and thank you very much.