Q2 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's First Half Year Results
Analyst Conference. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor
statement.
The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions by their very nature, forward-looking
statements involve risk and uncertainty, and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements. The next voice you hear will be that of `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, everyone. I am `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to the first half 2016 results
conference call for investors and analysts. The presentation is posted online for you to download.
We plan to spend a good half hour on the presentation and then we will leave plenty of time for
Q&A. In total, we have one hour and 15 minutes together so please turn to slide two.I'm joined today by `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global, our EVP for Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical
Affairs and Corporate Affairs; `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, our CFO; and `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer, our EVP for Global
Medicine Development and our Chief Medical Officer.
I will provide a short-term review and then I will hand over to Luke for an update on the growth
platforms and the ongoing launches of new medicines. As usual, Marc will cover the financials and
our guidance. Sean will provide a pipeline and new update and you will see there is a lot of
exciting news in that pipeline. In addition, I will provide concluding remarks before we take your
questions. Please turn to slide four.
The second quarter of 2016 continued with – in line with our expectations and we are on track for
the year. Total revenue reflects the loss of exclusivity including CRESTOR but also the phasing of
externalization revenue. We saw our end investment stabilizing with Q2 growth more in line with
our full year commitments. We're still finding a very attractive pipeline which has delivered
important news lately. As far as the G&A costs, they continue down, which support the full year
commitment of a material decline. EPS overall was impacted by the FluMist inventory write-down.
And all in all, the business performed as we expected, and we therefore maintain the full year
2016 guidance.
Importantly, and we're all very excited about this, the pipeline continued to make significant
progress in Q2 with the following highlights. First of all in oncology, we received positive Phase III
trials for Tagrisso and Faslodex, which is great for patients and for our company. We look forward
to presenting the data at medical meetings later in the year.
We're also very pleased to have completed rapidly the recruitment in many of our key IO Phase III
trials, including MYSTIC and ARCTIC, both of which will have data during the first half of 2017. Back
to – a special note of MYSTIC, we recruited about 1,100 patients in about a year or so. So our
team did an absolutely stellar job recruiting that study in record time.
Many of our studies are ongoing and recruiting. We also got U.S. Fast Track Designation for
Lynparza in second line ovarian cancer.
Respiratory and Immunity also saw success in two Phase III trials for benralizumab in severe
uncontrolled asthma. Brodalumab for psoriasis received a positive recommendation at the recent
FDA Advisory Committee meeting.
The Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases franchise saw an approval in the EU for saxa/dapa
now called Qtern in Type 2 diabetes. And we also made a regulatory resubmission of saxa/dapa
in the U.S. We look forward to hearing back from the Agency during Q1 2017.
As you know, we received a Complete Response Letter for ZS-9, and we are now working hard
to address the manufacturing issues that were raised. Sean will give you an update later on.
Finally we welcomed the last patients in the Phase III THEMIS trial for Brilinta. As you remember,
that study is in diabetic patients.
In short, we are really pleased with the progress Paul (05:42) has demonstrated over the period,
and our teams around the world have really demonstrated our ability to deliver on our pipeline
and to execute on our clinical programs. Please turn to slide five.
I wanted to take a moment here to highlight some of the progress we've made in optimizing
resource allocation in deploying capital in an optimal manner. We've grouped our efforts in three
areas, of which the top two results are externalization revenue and the bottom one is operating
income. Essentially we are looking for partnerships that are access – to access our area ofexpertise where we need them. For instance, the BACE inhibitor for renal disease with Lilly;
brodalumab in psoriasis with Valeant and LEO who both have very strong dermatology
businesses; tralokinumab for atopic dermatitis with LEO; and importantly, durvalumab in
hematology with our partner, Celgene.
In each case, what we're trying to do here is optimize the value of each medicine through the
partnership and create a recurring revenue stream which we book as externalization revenue. So
that's really the first example of externalization partnership.
The second example of externalization partnership relate to instances where we engaged in
partnerships to help us increase commercial reach, and good examples of this include Movantik,
Plendil and the Anesthetics portfolio. In the last example, we partnered anesthetics with a
dedicated partner in the field who has a very large hospital-based sales force and can grow this
business with a focus and a dedication that we would not be able to demonstrate because we
allocate our resources to our core areas. And we are retaining a significant proportion of the total
economics which we book as externalization revenue, too.
So the important part here is that those externalization partnerships help us market our products
better, focus our resources in our core areas, and generate recurring revenues that will hopefully
grow over the next few years.
Last and final is the – final example is disposals, where we – that provide only one-time income
through other operating income. These are products that are typically small, peripheral products
that we divest. And a couple of examples of those are Myalept last year and Imdur this year. And
essentially what we do is we take this resulting revenue stream from those activities and one-
time income and that allows us to invest in our R&D portfolio and focus our – sharpen our focus in
our main therapy areas, continue the R&D investment and also to support our dividend
commitment.
So we are pleased that many investors have been patient throughout this process, having relied
on the dividend for the short term and believing in the pipeline for the medium and long term.
We are also pleased by the trust and the investment in our company, and I would like you – would
like to thank you for your continued support.
Please turn to slide six. As we approach the next few quarters, we are also approaching many
very important many very important Phase III data points for AstraZeneca. The next 12 to 18
months will be really rich in news and an important period of time for us. (09:22), this is the case
for Immuno-Oncology where we expect a significant level of news flow from across the entire
portfolio, including the (09:30) immunotherapy but importantly in combination with
tremelimumab. We're very pleased with the speed of enrollment that we've seen in many of the
trials. As I said a minute ago, MYSTIC enrolled almost 1,100 patients in about a year or so which
clearly indicates the interest from physicians and patients and the opportunity to test the IO-IO
combination of durva/treme, over all other treatment options in first-line lung cancer. But also it is
a tribute to the quality of our teams, the talent of our people and the commitment to bring those
medicines to patients as quickly as possible.
Between now and the end of the year, we expect data from HAWK in head and neck cancer. In
the first half of next year, we expect data from CONDOR in the same cancer but in combination
this time. We also expect data from ARCTIC and MYSTIC in lung cancer which are both fully
enrolled. In the second half of next year, it's data from KESTREL in head and neck cancer and
PACIFIC in lung cancer. In 2018, we have NEPTUNE in lung cancer, EAGLE in head and neck cancer
and DANUBE in bladder cancer.So enormous progress, very fast recruitment, and a tremendous opportunity for us to position
ourselves as a leader in immuno-oncology in a couple of – in the years to come through this
combination strategy which we have been pursuing for now a couple of years. I'd like to take a
moment here to thank all our employees around the world for the tremendous work they've
done to bring our pipeline to where it is now, and we are really looking forward to sharing future
updates with you.
With this encouraging news, I will hand over to Luke.
`Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
Thanks, Pascal. And if I can ask you all to move to slide eight please. So I'm pleased to report the
growth platforms have demonstrated significant progress in the half. The platforms now
represent over 60% of total revenue, and encouragingly, New Oncology now represents over a
quarter of a billion dollars in sales. The new sales reinforce our confidence that our strategy is
very much working and very much on track. Please now turn to slide nine.
With Brilinta and Japan performing solidly and in line with expectations and even better in the
second quarter, I'll prioritize my time today to focus on Respiratory, Diabetes, Emerging Markets
and of course New Oncology. Please turn to slide 10.
Our Respiratory franchise delivered 1% sales growth during the half with the performance in
emerging markets and the resilience of Symbicort in volume terms offsetting the competitive
pressures in the U.S. and also the E.U. In the half year, Symbicort established itself as the number
one medicine globally in the growing ICS/LABA class in volume terms. And sales were down 6% in
the half, reflecting the competitive nature of the overall market.
In the U.S., solid volume growth was partially offset by pricing as a result of new contracts. And for
Europe, while sales continued to be affected by slower in-class market growth and competitive
pressures from both branded competition and analog, Symbicort maintained its market
leadership in the highly competitive ICS/LABA market environment. And we aim to strengthen our
position with the ongoing launches of the pressurized device across the E.U. In emerging
markets, we maintained leadership, where sales grew by 25% with China growing by 33%.
Pulmicort. Pulmicort sales grew by 10% in total, largely driven by a 23% increase in emerging
markets. And the business in China continues to expand, with more nebulizer centers established
in addition to the 8,000 or so centers already in place. And we believe the sales growth is
sustainable, with additional initiatives in the home nebulization, improved diagnostics as well as
treatment.
Duaklir. Duaklir achieved encouraging market share gains and the emerging LAMA/LABA class is
set to annualize at $1 billion in 2016. Duaklir continues to grow in Europe, having successfully
launched in more than 25 countries and with several more launches planned in 2017.
Please turn to slide 11. Moving to Brilinta performance, we're on track and are now the number
one branded anti-platelet medicine in the U.S. And I can cover more details on this in the Q&A as
needed.
Please turn to slide 12. We now look at diabetes. The good performance continued in the first half
with a growth of 18%. Growth was visible across all regions and the three major classes in what
remains a very competitive market. And we believe that the GLP-1 and SGLT2 classes will continue
to be the fastest-growing in Type 2 diabetes. Data released by products in both classes haveshown CV and renal benefits. And outcome studies EXSCEL and DECLARE will provide more data
in due course.
Factoring in these dynamics, we've refocused our strategy and are now in the process of
executing this with Farxiga and Bydureon to achieve our ambitions in diabetes. Farxiga is now the
number one diabetes product in our portfolio, and as you can see in the pie chart, it leads the
global SGLT2 class with 42% volume share.
In the U.S., preferred status on the (14:57) formulary continues to support the medicine despite
the competitive landscape, but we also recognize the need to capture more market share and
are adjusting our approach accordingly. In Europe and international markets, Farxiga leads the
class with around 60% market share.
Bydureon continued to see good sales growth overall. In Europe and Japan growth continues to
outpace the GLP-1 class, the fastest-growing class in the Type 2 diabetes market.
U.S. has also benefited from market growth, however, competitive pressure remains based on a
broadening range of GLP-1 options in that market.
Please turn to the next slide. We look now to emerging markets. While the overall growth rate
slowed during the half, the second quarter was up versus the first, and we are on track with our
long-term goals. As you can see on the graph, China maintained double-digit growth of 11% while
the other emerging markets exhibited high-single-digit growth.
Our established portfolio, as we've said on previous calls, is well-positioned as the main near
term growth driver and trends of better diagnosis, improved access and favorable patient
dynamics all bode well for our established products in respiratory and diabetes. While growth in
China moderated during the half, we are looking at growing faster than other multinational
companies and the overall market. And looking forward, we expect to maintain solid growth in
China.
For Brazil and Russia, Brazil and Russia grew at 13% and 12%. And these two countries, along with
the Middle East and Africa and most of Latin America, all continued to outperform the market.
And encouragingly, this growth was supported across all the main therapeutic areas. So
respiratory sales were up 23%, Brilinta was up 106%, diabetes was up 44%, and finally legacy
oncology was up 5%. And as a reminder, the long-term target for emerging markets is mid- to
high-single-digit percentage growth in sales.
Please turn to slide 14. We had good results in Japan, which I won't go into now as I mentioned at
the start of the call, but it's pleasing.
Next slide, thanks. Finally, looking at the two new oncology product launches, Tagrisso and
Lynparza, which have amassed $0.25 billion in the half. Firstly, Tagrisso, and you can see here on
the left-hand side graph, it demonstrates that we've made good progress across all markets in
just over six months from launch, with 3,000 patients now treated to date with this remarkable
medicine. The ctDNA T790M diagnostic test is now expected to become available in the second
half in the U.S. And we look to further data readouts in first line in 2017 as Tagrisso moves towards
becoming the new standard of care.
Turning to Lynparza, the graph on the right demonstrates a strong trajectory. One and a half
years after approval, 4,000 patients have received Lynparza since the launch in December of
2014. And Lynparza has now been launched in 29 countries with reviews ongoing in nine. BRCAtesting rates have increased significantly to over 60% in the U.S. and Europe, and we continue to
gain confidence in Lynparza backed by the Study 19 data presented at ASCO.
The study confirmed the long-term benefit and safety of Lynparza in the second-line platinum-
resistant recurrent setting for ovarian cancer patients for over five years. And we look forward to
keeping you updated on our progress with Lynparza and Tagrisso. We're very excited about that.
These two initial launches build the foundation for our new oncology growth platform.
And with that, I'll now hand you over to Mark.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Luke, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes taking you through
the performance in the first half. Please turn to slide 17.
Before we go into the numbers I wanted to highlight something you may have noticed in our
announcement this morning. In view of the recent SEC guidelines and requirements around the
reporting of GAAP and non-GAAP measures, we have decided to proactively implement changes
in our materials straightaway. You notice that we are now giving equal weight to the reported and
core performance, with reported numbers now coming first. By doing this, we are now seeing
what is becoming clearer and more consistent disclosure. We will strive to improve our
disclosures all the time. In the spirit of the changes we are making, you can see on this slide the
reported P&L for the half and for the second quarter. Please turn to slide 18.
Turning to the core P&L, the total revenue decline of 3% in the half reflected a fall in product
sales by 2% with the effect of losing exclusivity on CRESTOR in the United States particularly
impacting the performance in the second quarter. Looking at external revenue, we are planning
good level of activity in the second half of the year. There were a few deals, however, that
completed in first half.
The 5% rise in the cost of sales in the half reflected the mix of sales as well as the $47 million
write-down of inventory levels were finished in the United States. The core gross profit margin
declined by 1% touchpoint in the half to 82%.
Core R&D gross growth slowed to 3% in the second quarter, and full-year total core R&D cost, I
expect it to be at the similar level to last year at constant exchange rates. SG&A cost fell by 5% in
the first half, in line with a commitment we made to a much earlier reduction this year. Our core
tax rate was 17% in the first half, in line with 16% to 20% range for the full year I have outlined
previously. Please turn to slide 19.
Cost discipline continues to be a key focus for the business, and we have made good progress in
the first half. Looking at R&D cost, the chart shows sequential decline over recent quarters
despite the absorption of ZS Pharma and Acerta Pharma. Excluding that absorption, R&D costs
would have only increased by 3% in the first half. The current level of investment in R&D reflects
the sheer number of potential medicine in clinical trials, and it is important that we dedicate
resources for these programs.
Turning to core SG&A, costs declined by 5% in the first half with efficiency savings in several
marketing operations adding to further reduction to IT cost reductions. You can see from the
chart the path we are following to reduce costs even further in the future. We are confident in
meeting our cost discipline commitments this year. Please turn to slide 20.
You may well be familiar with this slide that summarizes the changes in opportunities that we faceguidance, namely the recent loss of exclusivity for CRESTOR in the United States plus the dilutive
effect of the Acerta and ZS Pharma transactions, although both platforms consistently performed
well. We also have a new important player coming up with a pipeline and a launch programs.
We continue to pursue value-creating externalization and disposal opportunities. And as I just
mentioned, we will continue to deliver against our commitment on costs. This means that for full
year, total revenue and core EPS guidance at constant exchange rate is unchanged today.
Turning to foreign currency movements, we now anticipate more favorable FX than previously
thought. This is why we now anticipate only a minimal adverse impact from currency movements
on total revenue this year, and core EPS is expected to benefit from currency movements by a
low to mid-single-digit percentage versus 2015. Please turn to slide 21.
This is a slide I've used before, but it's important to emphasize our capital allocation priorities.
We've continued to strike a balance between interests of the business, our financial creditors and
our shareholders. After providing for investment in the business, supporting the progressive
dividend policy and maintaining a strong investment-grade credit rating, we keep under review
any potential investment in value-enhancing and immediately earnings-accretive opportunities.
I want to mention our dividend payout in particular, given its maintenance as well as the fact that it
is based in dollars. With a favorable foreign exchange rate environment, we believe our dividend
payout is strong as we retain our progressive policy. I am pleased that despite the final loss of
patent expiries (24:14) we are faced with, we are able to reward our investors for their patience
and support. Please turn to slide 22.
Finally, it's good to recognize our lending partners are pivotal in supporting our growth plans over
the long term. As a good example, in May of this year, we successfully issued €2.2 billion of
medium-term notes. And as you can see from the chart, we now have an appropriate date
maturity profile. This is underpinned by the strong investment grade credit ratings as I mentioned
a moment ago, with Moody's at A3 and S&P at A minus.
Thank you for listening, and I will now hand it over to Sean.
`Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Thank you, Marc. I will now move on to our exciting pipeline. As we've alluded to earlier, we are
seeing very good progress with the pipeline, and in particular, the medicines in late-stage clinical
trials. First I plan to review the second quarter late-stage pipeline headlines, but also go a bit
more into detail on a few items of particular interest. At the end, I will review our upcoming news
flow. Please turn to slide 24.
Starting with respiratory and autoimmunity, benralizumab saw readout of two positive Phase III
trials, CALIMA and SIROCCO. These trials will form the backbone of our regulatory submission
before the end of the year for an intended indication in severe, uncontrolled asthma. Further, last
week, the Dermatologic and Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee appointed by the U.S. FDA
voted unanimously recommending approval for brodalumab for adults with moderate to severe
plaque psoriasis. We will continue supporting our partners Valeant in the United States and LEO in
the E.U., in bringing this important medicine to patients as soon as possible.
In cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, Brilinta saw the last patient of a total of about 19,000
patients recruited in the Phase III THEMIS trial, the last company-sponsored major outcome study
for Brilinta to read out in 2018. THEMIS is testing Brilinta in patients with Type 2 diabetes and
coronary heart disease, with no histories of myocardial infarction or stroke.Qtern, previously known as saxa/dapa, was approved in the EU for Type 2 diabetes. Also, the
regulatory resubmission for the fixed dose combination of the two diabetes medicines was
accepted by the FDA in the U.S. We expect to hear back from the agency during Q1 of 2017.
We received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for ZS-9 as a potential medicine to treat
hyperkalaemia. The CRL referred to observations arriving from a pre-approval manufacturing
inspection. The CRL did not require the generation of new clinical data. We expect to resubmit
the NDA as soon as we can this year, after which we assume to get a response from the FDA
within six months of that resubmission. In oncology we saw positive Phase III trial results from
Faslodex in first-line hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer.
Unfortunately, Lynparza missed the primary endpoint in the metastatic gastric cancer trial in Asia.
However, this does not change the outlook for the life cycle program for Lynparza where we
expect Phase III results this year in BRCA-mutated second-line ovarian cancer as well as in BRCA-
mutated metastatic breast cancer. Tagrisso saw the confirmatory Phase III trial in second-line
EGFR-mutated T790M non-small cell lung cancer read out with positive results across a range of
endpoints.
Further, the MEK inhibitor selumetinib obtained orphan drug designation in differentiated thyroid
cancer. Finally, as announced during the ASCO Investor Science Event, we have now recruited the
last patient in the MYSTIC trial in first-line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, and today we can
share the same good news for ARCTIC in the third-line PDL-1 negative setting. MYSTIC and
ARCTIC are both scheduled to report PFS data in the first half of 2017.
Outside the main therapy areas, we obtained EU approval for Zavicefta, previously CAZ AVI, for
serious infections and also obtained conditional marketing authorization in the EU for the
pandemic live attenuated influenza vaccine. Please turn now to slide 25.
As I mentioned, I will now go into detail on a few key pipeline results beginning with
benralizumab. In May, we announced the positive top-line Phase III results for benralizumab, a
potential best-in disease eosinophil-depleting antibody and our first biologic for the treatment of
patients with severe uncontrolled asthma.
Asthma currently affects the health and daily living of 350 million individuals worldwide, and by
2020, this will likely increase to more than 400 million people. Up to 10% of asthma cases are
severe of which approximately 40% are uncontrolled. Severe uncontrolled asthma has eight
times greater risk of mortality than severe asthma that is controlled. This results in a significant
physical and socioeconomic burden with severe patients accounting for around 50% of all
asthma-related healthcare costs.
The primary endpoint in the two pivotal Phase III registrational trials, SIROCCO and CALIMA,
demonstrated significant reductions in annual asthma exacerbation rate compared to placebo.
The trials evaluated the efficacy and safety of two-dose regimens of benralizumab as an add-on
therapy for patients 12 years of age and older with severe uncontrolled asthma and on high-dose
inhaled cortical steroids plus a long-acting beta-2 agonist.
A previously reported Phase IIb trial demonstrated a reduction of eosinophils and asthma
exacerbations with an overall improvement in lung function, and this slide depicts the reductions
in exacerbations. As announced in our May press release, the Phase III safety and tolerability
findings for benralizumab were generally consistent with those reported in previous trials. I'm very
excited about the potential for benralizumab to improve patient outcomes in severe asthma and
we look forward to the presentation of detailed Phase III results in September at the EuropeanRespiratory Society Meeting here in London. As previously mentioned, regulatory submissions in
the U.S. and EU are expected before the end of the year. Please turn now to slide 26.
From respiratory and benralizumab, we now move on to the oncology highlights out of the June
ASCO meeting. We were pleased to share data for Tagrisso in CNS disease. In patients with lung
cancer, a common site of metastasis remains the brain. So a medicine with the ability to
penetrate the blood-brain barrier has clear patient advantages and may help improve overall
survival. This is a hypothesis that is currently being explored in additional clinical trials, including
the first line Phase III trial called FLORA which is scheduled to report next year.
For Lynparza, we saw early overall survival data from the Study 19 trial in BRCA-mutated second-
line and beyond ovarian cancer. We are eagerly awaiting the results from the SOLO 2 trial later
this year which is testing the specific second-line population of platinum-sensitive recurrent
patients. We're pleased to soon see other DNA-damaged response medicines start Phase III
trials.
First, the AZD1775 Wee1 inhibitor, we are looking forward to sharing our progress in DDR at
upcoming medical meetings and quarterly results.
From the IO medicines, we saw strong data for durvalumab in second-line PD-L1 positive
urothelial bladder cancer, which supported the breakthrough therapy designation obtained earlier
in the year. We saw a wealth of relevant data at ASCO from ourselves as well as other companies
supporting our decision to focus on the unique combination of durva and treme.
We are looking forward to the upcoming news flow from the IO pipeline which I will detail in a few
slides.
Lastly, on hematology, we presented acalabrutinib's frontline data in chronic lymphocytic leukemia
for the first time, and they were just as impressed as the data and relapse refractory CLL
previously shared at the American Society of Hematology in December of 2015.
We are also pleased to see the progress made by the Celgene collaboration, a topic I reviewed
in greater detail at last quarter's conference call.
I now plan to go into more details on two areas, namely IO and Lynparza. Please turn to slide 27.
We are often asked about when we will see an immunotherapy from AstraZeneca benefiting
patients outside of clinical trials. This chart aims at providing an answer to that question. We have
multiple ways our IO medicines can come to market. For durvalumab monotherapy, the first data
we named HAWK in the second line PD-L1 positives metastatic – in second-line PD-L1 positive
metastatic head and neck cancer, with final data expected this year. Then key data from PACIFIC
in Stage III unresectable non-small cell lung cancer in the second half of next year. And then one
of the three arms in the MYSTIC study, which could also potentially provide a monotherapy label
for durvalumab.
It's important to remember, as is also mentioned on the slide, that the HAWK trial is a single-arm
Phase II trial with no comparison to standard of care, and therefore a potential fast-to-market
opportunity ahead of randomized combination data from the CONDOR trial and randomized
control data from the KESTREL and EAGLE trials in head and neck cancer.
In combination therapy of durva + treme, the first half of 2017 is expected to deliver a number of
key trials. CONDOR in second-line PD-L1 negative metastatic head and neck cancer with some of
the same caveats as HAWK, ARCTIC in third line PD-L1 negative non-small cell lung cancer and
MYSTIC in the first-line non-small cell lung cancer setting.Two other important data points for AstraZeneca are the NEPTUNE lung cancer and DANUBE
bladder cancer trials in 2018. In summary, we're quickly approaching key, pivotal data for
durvalumab and the durva-treme combination, and we're looking forward to sharing these data
points in due time.
Please turn now to slide 28. Moving onto Lynparza and specifically the Study 19 trial. I will start with
this Kaplan-Meier curve, which was presented at ASCO in June. Study 19 is a randomized Phase II
trial comparing Lynparza versus placebo as a maintenance therapy in second-line ovarian cancer
patients. The trial was designed to demonstrate an improvement in progression-free survival of
Lynparza over placebo. It was not designed nor sized to detect superiority in terms of overall
survival, but as you can see at five years of follow-up, some 15% of patients remain on treatment.
In summary, two key messages from this data. First, patients are living longer and not only the
median survival is significantly superior, almost five months compared to placebo, but there's also
a 38% reduction in the risk of death from ovarian cancer. Secondly Lynparza has started to show a
long tail to the survival curve similar to something we have seen previously with immunotherapy.
Please turn to slide 29. We are proud to have an industry-leading DDR portfolio with multiple
agents in proof-of-concept studies across several cancer types including ovarian, breast,
pancreatic and prostate. Our strategic framework starts with Lynparza monotherapy, progresses
to Lynparza in combination, and extends further to Wee1 and other small molecule and IO agents
looking beyond the BRCA mutation.
Please turn to slide 30. Finally on the upcoming news flow. During the remainder of the year, we
expect a regulatory decision on cediranib for ovarian cancer in the EU and brodalumab for
psoriasis in the U.S. We have a number of regulatory submissions coming up including
benralizumab for severe asthma, the resubmission of ZS-9 in the U.S., as well as the first
regulatory submission, a rolling submission, for roxadustat in China by our partner FibroGen. In
oncology, we expect a regulatory submission for Tagrisso in China and potentially acalabrutinib in
one blood cancer in the U.S.
There is the usual caveat around Phase II trials supporting regulatory submission, as for
acalabrutinib, where Phase II trials may support faster market opportunities ahead of randomized
controlled trials. Key data readouts are Brilinta in peripheral artery disease, Lynparza in both
breast and ovarian cancers, selumetinib in lung cancer and durvalumab's Phase II in head and
neck cancer. If positive, we expect the aforementioned key data readouts in the second half of
2016 to convert to regulatory submissions in the first half of 2017. On readouts, we expect the
first key IO combination trials, CONDOR, MYSTIC and ARCTIC during the first half of 2017. We
expect regulatory decisions on brodalumab and ZS-9 in the EU as mentioned and as mentioned,
saxa/dapa in the U.S.
Today, we are also rolling the news flow forward to include the second half of 2017. We expect
the first half 2017 news flow to convert to regulatory submissions in the second half of next year.
We expect new data from a number of ongoing trials, including first data for tralokinumab, our
second biologic in severe asthma, roxadustat in anemia from an AstraZeneca-sponsored trial and
the first-line data from Lynparza in ovarian cancer and Tagrisso in first-line EGFR-mutated non-
small cell lung cancer.
From the IO pipeline, we expect data from PACIFIC in Stage III unresectable lung cancer and from
KESTREL in first-line head and neck cancer. Lastly, moxetumomab in hairy cell leukemia is
expected to deliver its first data next year.In short, we are very pleased with the overall progress of the late stage pipeline and we are
looking forward to sharing the upcoming news flow as it will be pivotal, not only for patients but
also for AstraZeneca as a company and our expected return to growth.
I will now hand you back to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Please turn to slide 32. Before we end, let me just quickly summarize. First of all,
our financials are on track and as you heard, we have reconfirmed our guidance for the year.
Second, the pipeline is accelerating. We now have 14 new potential medicines in Phase III and
under registration. The third message for you today is our oncology pipeline is progressing very
rapidly, in particular the IO/IO combination programs that are really quite exciting and moving
along quite quickly.
And finally, we're looking forward to sharing upcoming news flow over the next 18 months that we
think has the potential to transform AstraZeneca.
So we now go to the Q&A.
Q&A
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We can now take the first caller who is Jo Walton at Credit Suisse. Go ahead, Jo.
Q - `Johannah H. Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Thank you. In the spirit of talking about clinical trial results that are coming through next year, I
wonder if we could also look at some of the costs that might be coming through next year. So, if
you've got all of these new products coming through, how realistic is it to assume that you can
continue to decline your SG&A as you go through 2017 as you have done through 2016?
A second one on foreign exchange please, because we're going to be seeing a foreign
exchange benefit at the bottom line, which we're not seeing at the top line, I wondered if you
could give us some help as to which line item we should see it in? Presumably, it will be an
expansion of the cost – of the gross margin and an apparent reduction in cost of goods, but just
to check that please. And finally, you've highlighted the credit rating. I wondered why you'd
chosen to do that. Does it tell us something about you feel that you've got capacity to buy some
more products in?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Jo. So, I'll have Marc to answer the ForEx question and also the credit rating question.
Maybe a quick point on the SG&A costs and, Luke, if you have anything to add, please jump in.
The reason we feel confident we can continue merging our SG&A costs, Jo, is that first of all, we
have productivity programs in place that will continue to deliver benefits over the next year or
two.
And secondly, it's important to keep in mind our pipeline is now shifting to more specialty care
products. If you look at the news flow, it's going to be very much driven by oncology over the next
12 to 18 months. And products also like benralizumab, all of those are medicines that require R&D
costs but less SG&A cost as you know because they're more targeted customer groups. So as
the pipeline shifts and really flow to specialty care products, our expectation is that we canmanage our SG&A cost as we have guided we would. Okay, so I'll ask Marc to answer the other
two questions.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So, Jo, thank you very much for the question on the ForEx. So the slight benefit that we are
anticipating, obviously, if the existing ForEx are continue to be (44:09) ForEx volatility, this is very
difficult thing to predict. The lines of the P&L that are particularly influenced if these rates were
maintained until the end of the year would be the cost lines, specifically this would SG&A as well
as R&D costs, but also as you suggested the cost of goods line. All these lines would be receiving
some slight improvement for the end of the year. And this is due to the more dominant decline
of the sterling pounds versus dollars and to a small extent, much lower extent, on the Swedish
kronor versus dollars.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Credit rating, Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
On the credit rating, so I think there was no hidden agenda, nor any hidden message underneath.
It was just to first of all to say thank you to our creditors and also to present to the outside world
that our portfolio of debt maturities is now more balanced than it was in the past, and there was
nothing more than explaining how this portfolio of debt is structured.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of America. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for the questions. First one for you, Pascal. In the introductory comments, you thanked
shareholders for their patience, which Marc reiterated when discussing the dividend. I just
wondered if there's any particular backdrop for that. Shares broadly flat last year as investors,
they were apparently not giving credit to pipeline progress and the inflection you believe in. So I
just wondered whether you saw any risk of another corporate crystallizing the value you see
quicker?
And then just a couple of pipeline questions. First on the TESARO's PARP data that came out
recently, now do you view that from a competitive standpoint and given the positive data in
gBRCA wild type and the absolute PFS improvement versus what you have on the label? Second,
on respiratory, Glaxo was very vocal on their triple yesterday in potential market share gains
versus Symbicort. I wonder if you could just remind us of the time lines of your triple and its
relative competitive profile. And then a final one on IO, does the Merck headline data in first-line
PD-L1 positive lung with the PFS benefit change your view of PFS versus OS read for MYSTIC?
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sachin. Lots of great questions here. Sean, maybe you could in a minute take the
TESARO question and also the triple and the PFS, and Luke could cover the rest of the Symbicort
market share. Let me – is that okay or...?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `Triple timing, yeah. Okay.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. And then I'll start with maybe the backdrop of the dividend comment. Again, here again, no
special message here. I mean our value proposition to investors has always been that's how
we've always presented it – has always been that we are going or we are going – still going
through a transition period where we're losing patent protection on a number of products. We
are rebuilding, retooling, rebuilding the company and investing in our pipeline and essentially
creating long-term value that will end up being reflected in our share price.
In the meantime, essentially we were rewarding shareholders for their patience with a positive
dividend policy and sustaining the dividend. Having said that, we certainly recognize that we have
to ask shareholders to be patient as we retool. So as we are now coming through our inflection
point, we're not yet at the end of our – the second phase of this journey we are going through.
That journey will end at the end of 2017. And by then, we will be totally finished with our patent
expiries.
But as we are going through an inflection point, losing a large patent-protected product and
starting on the journey of rich news flow, we thought it was the appropriate time to say, again,
thank you for your continued support over a number of years. Now as to whether we would be
exposed, we certainly have been very aware over the last few years that as we create value then
at some point our pipeline becomes attractive. And so, hopefully, becomes attractive to our
shareholders. But of course, it may be attractive to anybody. I mean I can't speculate more than – I
don't want to speculate, but certainly it is clear that there is value in our pipeline that we hope our
shareholders will recognize. Sean, do you want to cover the triple question on...
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Do you want me to do triple first?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, in the order you want.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Let me start – thank you for the question, Sachin. Let me start with your TESARO PARP question.
We have great confidence in PARP inhibition in the DDR portfolio. When we see a competitor
molecule targeting the same target, have positive data, that certainly increases that confidence.
The question you have has to do with a comparison between the two molecules, and that's just
very difficult to do when you don't have the full data from the trial. In particular, we don't know the
pre-treatment characteristics of the patients, and I'm sure as TESARO gets a chance to present
their data we will get more information, be able to make some sort of assessment. We have
great faith in SOLO2 in this population.
And as I pointed out, the Study 19 data looks quite interesting to us. That update with survival is
encouraging, and as well we're wondering if we'll be able to duplicate this long tail which would
be very interesting. I'll move on to the IO one, then I'll go to Bevespi because there's a part
probably there for Luke. So IO – so again with Merck, yeah, they definitely reported top-line that
their PFS was positive in first-line PDL-1 positive, non-small cell lung cancer, and in their press
release, said that they hit OS as well. Again, we haven't seen the exact data so it's a little hard for
me to speak about what it means for MYSTIC.We are very confident in the MYSTIC trial design, in that PFS and OS being co-primary endpoints
increases the strength of that trial to demonstrate the benefit of IO and combo-IO across a
broad patient population. Specifically, the part of – the piece of information we're missing, Sachin,
is that we don't know how much crossover there was in the Merck trial from the control on two
other IOs versus how much we might have in MYSTIC and whether that might confound the OS
endpoint versus the PFS endpoint.
So that's the one big piece that I really don't have the information to comment on. Last with
Bevespi. So Bevespi approved in the U.S. earlier this year. Our plan is to file next year in the EU,
and the reason that those filing dates are different are we include the symptom data, the
symptom improvement data, in the first filing for the EU, and that data becomes available a bit
later. Its availability was delayed slightly because that trial is also the one that's enabling China for
us, and China implemented a new review, their Human Genetic Resources Administration, and
that led to a bit of a delay in implementation of the trial in China.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Luke, do you want to cover the market share one and Symbicort?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
And I'll just cover the triple from a commercial perspective first. I mean it's a very attractive
option. That's why we have one. Depending on the geography, you've got between 20% and
50% of patients are on a free-triple. I mean from our view the focus is on cannibalizing those
compounds and converting them to a fixed-triple in the face of generics. If you look at ICS/LABA,
this is a little bit of a quarterly debate and maybe you guys can find it a bit entertaining at times.
I think it depends on how you cut the data. If you look at Q2, Symbicort was up 1.24%. Advair was
down 2.18%, and Breo was up 1.29%. So if you look at it at a company level, it's 1.24% versus
0.89%. If you look at it within the brands, there's a mix. I think you'd expect that. Our focus is very
much on making the case that fast-control Symbicort is an attractive option versus once-a-day.
And if we look into 2017, we've got a very good sense of where we're heading in terms of
access, and we expect to finalize this over the next four weeks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The only thing I would add, Sachin, and I think, Luke, you were talking about the U.S. market
shares, right?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
Yeah.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And if you go beyond the quarter, if you look at the last few weeks actually, Sachin, you will see
that in terms of new Rx and BRx in the U.S., Symbicort is making some very nice progress, and we
expect that to be reflected in our total share in Q3. So we continue to make progress and with
the triple and maybe the additional point is as we said before, it's an MDI. So there is a place for
DPI, there is a place for an MDI. I mean the two technologies are complementary. Somehow
competitive of course, but also somehow complementary addressing different patient needs. We
think we have a good technology with the power of delivery. What we see now that we are
starting to discuss within the U.S. with some of our customers and physicians, we see a lot ofin a very effective matter through the line. So we think that the triple power will have a nice
potential.
Moving to James Gordon, James at JPMorgan.
Q - `James Daniel Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hello. Thanks, for taking my questions. Two pipeline and one launch question; on the pipeline, so
continuing the theme of DDR, regarding PARPs, some of your competitors have suggested that
the level of PARP trapping is key to how efficacious the PARPs are. I think Medivation's PARP is
much stronger in terms of trapping. TESARO's also seems to have more trapping ability than
Lynparza. So do you think that could be an explanation for different efficacy? Does trapping
matter?
One question on respiratory which would be sort of the benralizumab data coming up at ERS,
where is it you're seeing a differentiation for the product versus Nucala. Is it a more efficacious
product or is it around dose frequency? And then just one product, one launch product question,
NEXIUM was surprisingly strong, so sales in the U.S. were up sequentially about 25% whereas the
IMS data is sequentially down about 20%. So what happened on NEXIUM and can that be
sustained?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Can we start with maybe DDR, Sean, you want to cover that?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Sure. Yeah. There's a story out there about trapping and what I'm going to have to do is I'm going
to have to refer you in the near future to a paper that will come out of our IMED group and be
published in a scientific journal that we believe refutes the contention that trapping makes any
difference in terms of the effect of PARP inhibition that is just reversible inhibition versus trapping.
What was the second question?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Benralizumab.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Oh, benra. Yeah. Differentiation of benralizumab, you'll see the detailed data in a bit. And it is true
that we tested – we did test the two dose schedules every four weeks and every eight weeks. I
can't talk about the data until it's made public. But I think you'll be able to see where our
enthusiasm comes from when you see the data. As far as differentiation goes, what we've
previously published is that benralizumab depletes eosinophils more rapidly and more
completely than other drugs that we've seen in this class. And it is our hope that that then
translates into a superior profile.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Do you want to cover the (57:06)?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
Yeah. Sure. So, James, I think the key thing – we were actually able to retain a little bit moreand Part D programs. But I think the key thing is if you look into Q3, you should not assume that
we retain that and that you see a more traditional loss of exclusivity trajectory at that point.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, James.
Q - `James Daniel Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We move to Tim Anderson at Bernstein. Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Just a few questions, on externalization, just to clarify, after the May SEC guidance
came out, is that going to change at all how you elect to book both revenues and expenses in
your non-GAAP results? I know it's changing how you present GAAP and non-GAAP on things like
earnings calls. But does it change how you're going to actually treat the non-GAAP P&L?
Second question on Farxiga, going into 2017, can you talk about likely formulary positioning
increasing, decreasing, staying the same? And would you agree that EMPA-REG even though it's
value-enhancing for the whole SGLT2 class showing a benefit of that class of drugs, it might
actually lead to more price competition in this category as companies other than Lilly compete for
formulary share by lowering their price. And then last question, if you could just make some high-
level comments on Brexit and the potential impact to the drug industry in the intermediate term
across the various potential areas like regulatory outlook.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So let me just maybe start with Brexit. Farxiga, Luke, will you cover this one and externalization,
Marc, I'm going to leave it to you. Brexit, really I have to comment at this point, we are at the very
beginning of the discussions between the U.K. and the EU and we'll have to see how the process
evolves over time. Certainly the one that we'll engage in discussions – I mean we will engage
across a variety of aspects. But certainly one of the most important ones for us is indeed the
regulatory process.
Today, we have a single process for (59:22) and we would hope that these are retained or at
least, at the very least, a very effective process of mutual recognition so we don't have to
duplicate efforts to get approval in the U.K. That simply adds costs and adds delays and doesn't
help anybody, neither the patients, nor the payers, nor us the industry, so that's one aspect that is
really critical for us and there's a few others of course. But that's certainly the most important.
And it's really too early to judge. We hope that everybody is going to be practical about those
things but we'll have to see. Farxiga, Luke?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
So, Tim, I think it's best to summarize the diabetes contracting environment in the U.S. as dynamic
and relatively unpredictable which I think to be fair is how it's been for some time. If we look at
commercial, we've got a strong position there. I mean we've got around 90% of the lives
covered. Where we need to do some more work is Part D and we're very focused on that. I mean
in terms of EMPA-REG being a disruptive element, I think in the end it is a very positive force.What we've watched closely of course is the class growth of the SGLT2. And if you look at the
quarter one, it was around 2% whereas in quarter two, it went up to 7% which I think is very
encouraging. And our focus, of course, is capturing as much of that as possible. And I think linked
to that, our focus is very on converting patients who may be placed on a DPP-4 or on to a SGLT2,
and when that decision is made that we make sure that that patient's a Farxiga patient.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So regarding NEXIUM's revenues, I do not believe that the SEC new guidance will have any
impact. So the short answer is no. Let me remind you that the external revenues are only
containing sustainable source of revenues in opposition to what we classify as other income
which are usually one-off. We retain in the class of external revenues, we'll retain a significant
influence on the asset and there's no disposal of the intellectual property. This is why we classify
those as external revenues and we intend to provide the best possible transparency on this
source of revenues.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International, do you want to go ahead, Goldman Sachs?
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Thanks, Pascal. A couple of questions, please, the first one on a kind of the PARP landscape.
Would you expect, assuming that the new olaparib data kind of holds out as kind of the press
release suggest, would you expect then to get approved kind of a label beyond just gBRCA
mutated, the germ-line BRCA mutation? And if so, how do you think from a commercial
perspective Lynparza stands versus the TESARO product?
And secondly, Sean, you mentioned kind of on the MYSTIC study, there was a potential for a
durvalumab single arm to kind of seen as potentially, you being able to file on that. Can you just
remind us how MYSTIC is powered from a statistical perspective? Is it durva/treme versus Derma
(62:30) versus standard of care? Or is it kind of the pool population versus standard of care?
What is the statistical design of the study? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Both questions are for you, Sean.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Yeah. So with regard to the TESARO label, and what's expected there, I expect that their
label will actually have the multiple mutations that they tested and we focused on BRCA but we
also have – we've shared some data from The Royal Marsden on prostate cancer with a more
complex definition of DDR. And so I think that this will be an evolving story there. We do – we
have confidence in SOLO 2 converting us to full approval and have Fast-Track Designation in fact
for that indication and we talked about when that data's available. You had a competitive
landscape question about that which I don't – is that – Luke?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
I mean I can probably expand on that. I mean I think right now if we look at scripts in the U.S., they
were down – two-thirds of them are for ovarian. And in the non-promoted areas, around – it's
low-teens are prostate and around 6% is breast. So I mean I think this is a very, a rapidly evolving
area. I mean, Sean, has referred to a paper that's coming out. We think that this is going tofurther crystallize things. We also are very, very focused on the HRR test and we have our views
there. But ultimately, I think the key is that we need to remain ahead of the curve in terms of new
indications but also critically, if you look at DNA damage response, the capability that we'll have to
combine agents such as AZD1775, Lynparza and other agents will position us in a strong position
in the mid-term.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
And then you had a question about MYSTIC. So we don't get into the detailed statistical analysis
plan and design. I can refresh you with the things that we have communicated about, about
MYSTIC. So, MYSTIC – it's all comers. So we have the ability to analyze PD-L1 positive versus PD-L1
negative. And in all of those patients, there are three arms, the standard of care, double
chemotherapy, durvalumab or durva plus treme. And then as you will all have noticed from earlier
this year, we did change the plan to bring – to elevate overall survival to a co-primary endpoint
with progression-free survival, earlier this year and in order to enable the power of that, we
significantly increased the size of the trial, so it's about 1,100 patients.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. So next question is from Nicolas Gellin at Morgan Stanley. Nicolas, go ahead.
Q - `Nicolas Guyon-Gellin, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi. Thanks, for taking my questions. I have two actually. The first one is a follow-up on MYSTIC
again, I'm afraid. So I guess an important question here is how to integrate the PFS data that you
will have next year. During the context of chemo, I think demonstrated roughly six months of PFS,
Merck & Co. chemo IO combo roughly 10 months and no available data for IO mono agent yet.
What could be the appropriate comparator and what would you consider as clinically relevant for
the PFS for MYSTIC? That's number one. And second question is on liquid tumors, could you
update us on the Celgene collaboration and the next important upcoming clinical readouts,
please. Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
With regard to the meaningful PFS endpoint, I mean I think it's difficult again to do these cross-
trial comparisons. I think that the data we've seen to-date certainly increases our confidence that
particularly in the PD-L1 positive non-small cell lung cancer patients that we will have efficacy in,
just to be blunt, it doesn't look like the PD-L1s versus the PD-1 so far has really differentiated from
each other in terms of how they work within that population. So we anticipate durvalumab will
work well and show a meaningful benefit. The second aspect of it is, of course, the ability to see
a difference with treme.
And so, obviously, our primary strategy is IO combination for treme. And the place where we had
previously said we were most likely to see the benefit of that is in the PD-L1 negative population
which is now not really benefiting from IO therapy. And the last thing I will say though is that there
was some interesting data presented from BMS work at ASCO that suggested at least in some
of their experience that their CTLA-4/PD-1 combination was showing benefit, even in the PD-L1
positive population. Not our primary hypothesis, but MYSTIC is testing that hypothesis,
nonetheless.
I'll move on to Celgene. The next – we haven't reported on data readouts. We've reported on
what trials we have ongoing and initiated. And it started primarily in multiple myeloma where the
combination trials are ongoing in Phase I. Obviously, there you have to get your safety databefore you can move on and expand the trial. We also have non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic
lymphocytic leukemia with durvalumab either with lenalidomide anti B-cell antibodies. Also
durvalumab and retuxumab CHOP, in B-cell lymphoma that's high risk, those trials are to start by
end of year this year and also some myelodysplastic syndrome trials that start second half of this
year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. Richard Parkes, Deutsche Bank. Richard, go ahead.
Q - `Richard James Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK) `
Thanks for taking my questions. Firstly on the guidance. You've managed to – you've reiterated
the earnings guidance despite the FluMist write-down which I think, given the lost revenues in that
write-down, it would have taken you towards the lower end of your expectations. So I'm
wondering what's changed since the beginning of the year that's maybe positively offset that.
And maybe you could talk about your expectations for externalization revenue for the year and
how that's evolved in that context, so that's the first question.
The second question is on plans for FluMist. I'm assuming that without a return to the U.S. market
that's likely to be an overall loss-making operation. So just wondering when you might make a
decision on the path forward for that franchise? And then finally, on Farxiga, your competitors are
highlighting slowing NRx in the SGLT2 class in the U.S. I'm just wondering if you could discuss your
– what you're seeing there, your expectation and what you might be able to do to help to return
the path to growth? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Richard. For guidance, I mean the guidance is a range and so we can be at the top end or
the bottom end of the range. And it is true that the FluMist event actually tends to take us
towards the low end of the range. So there's not really a big change that we can see from what
we guided to at the beginning of year. We're still in the range we indicated and that's why we
reconfirmed the guidance.
As far as FluMist, we're certainly working hard to, at this stage, our teams are working hard
looking at to try to understand better this discrepancy that we saw between the CDC data now
and also the U.K. Health Authority data and planning for next year. We still believe FluMist is a
strong brand. It's a good product. There's a good place for it. And we stand behind it. We have to
kind of do a little more work. And this hard work we will do with it moving forward. But it's going
to take a little longer. And on Farxiga, Luke, do you want to comment?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
So, Richard. It's interesting, if you look over the – say from early 2014 until now, the class was on a
very steep, I mean exponential growth curve until around July of 2015 when you had the DKA
letter, the diabetic ketoacidosis letter. And the class essentially moved sideways for some time
and I think that was whilst physicians, particularly primary care physicians were I think essentially
waiting for regulators and opinion leaders to form a judgment. I think the issue around DKA at the
time, of course, was that it had the classic symptoms of DKA but there were some other
elements which made it difficult to understand and characterize that patient. That's now
happened.And now what we're seeing in the last quarter is the beginning of the class growth again. I think
it's early days. It's not where it was before. However, if you look at the fundamental benefits this
class delivers, I mean it's a very effective – a product like Farxiga is very effective at addressing
A1c and you have the added benefit of weight loss, of course. And on the back of that, we have
one outcome study in place and hopefully we have a few more that should ensure that this class
returns to its historical growth.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Luke. We've experienced this in the past. CRESTOR was suddenly (73:08) was
established over a period of time. It was difficult here at the beginning. I think we have here two
classes, enormous potential, as Luke said. And we just need to work through these initial issues
the class is experiencing. Andrew Baum of Citi, Andrew, go ahead.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Good afternoon. Three questions for Sean, please. Firstly, could you tell us whether you'll be
updating the follow-up for the Phase Ib durva/treme non-small cell lung cancer trial since the
historic data is most obviously coming up?
Number two, looking at that same trial, there were at least a couple of cases of pseudo
progression which I know is more common with CTLA-4 than necessarily PD-L1 monotherapy.
When we think about the PFS endpoint for MYSTIC, on the one hand, we have the recent Merck
trial seeming to validate its utility in this particular setting. But on the other hand, you now have
CTLA-4 included in the regimen with the risk of pseudo progression.
How do you think about that and mitigate the potential impact in terms of diluting any PFS signal
you may see? And the final question is on your refractory CLL trial with acalabrutinib versus
ibrutinib, should we expect that data at the end of 2017? I note it's not on your chart. But looking
at the timelines, one wonders whether it's possible? Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Okay. So starting with Study 006 update, the non-small cell lung cancer IO portfolio you're talking
about, we will update. We haven't submitted to do that yet, so it won't be at ESMO and we won't
be able to communicate when we update until we submit and get the update accepted at a
meeting to present it. But we will plan to update that data in due time.
Pseudo progression, yeah, I mean pseudo progression, it's interesting that you bring it up. It was
a very, very hot topic as you appreciate for a while with IO, and it's sort of gone away. And we've
seen in lung that you do seem to get PFS benefit regardless of whether the pseudo progression
is a real entity or not. It doesn't seem to be so prominent that you lose it. And then, of course,
obviously MYSTIC is now designed to have overall survival as a co-primary endpoint. So we have
another way to capture the benefit of IO.
With regard to the durva/treme combo being potentially different than durvalumab, I really don't
think we have enough data to conclude that at this point in time, but we do feel like MYSTIC is
well designed and well powered, and now stronger with both the PFS and the OS endpoints as
co-primaries. And there was a third one.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
I said acalabrutinib.A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Acalabrutinib. Yeah. We – it's too early for us to report on that because we have the elements of
accrual rate and forecasting when the accrual will end, and then of course, when we report out
will be dependent on the event rate because these are event-driven trials. And so it's too early
for us to forecast a timeline for when the head-to-head data will be available.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
`Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. at Exane. Simon, go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thanks for taking my questions. Three, if I may. Firstly going back to Tim's question on
externalization revenue. You said that it's unimpacted by the SEC guidelines, but I was wondering
what the impact of IFRS 15, the new revenue recognition standard, would be, if at all, on the
reporting externalization revenue?
Then secondly on to the gross margin, I wonder if you could give us your updated thoughts on
how the gross margin evolves through this year and beyond? Obviously, we know about the
impact of FluMist, but also I was wondering about the potential impact of the genericization of
CRESTOR on the gross margin?
And then finally on R&D, you've over the last couple of years focused your commercial
therapeutic focus down to the key target areas that you now have. And I see recently there
seems to be evidence that the same is happening in R&D. There've been reports of the closure
of U.S. neuroscience R&D and also reductions in the non-oncology R&D efforts in the U.S. at
MedImmune. I just wondered if there was more to go there in terms of fitting the R&D footprint
to the commercial footprint, notwithstanding what you've said in the past about not wanting to try
and box in and potentially lose good scientists by overly focusing their R&D effort? Thanks so
much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Simon. Maybe I'll start with your last question and Marc, you could cover the
externalization revenue question and the gross margin one? So, Simon, the focus was not a
commercial focus, it was a development and commercial focus. It was really building capabilities
in development actually to start with, and of course commercially around the three core areas.
And what we said was always that we would – actually the partner, the science or the products
that come out of our science in the other therapy areas, so we continue doing this. We certainly
have further fine-tuned our investments in the early phase because if you look at it, immune-
oncology portfolio of early projects is certainly increasing. We now have ADCs that are antibody-
drug conjugates that are also progressing through preclinical early development.
So in oncology, we have an extremely rich research and development pipeline, a set of early
programs. So we have to certainly focus ourselves here quite a lot. So it's not a commercial focus.
It's actually, at the end of the day, we have strong science across the whole portfolio. But we
certainly have to place our bets and focus our resources on a few things. Having said that, we stilldeveloping for infections. But certainly, the need is to focus even our research and development.
Marc, do you want to cover the (80:01)?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So just regarding the question on IFRS 15, the date of implementation of this new guideline is
from 2018, so we are still presently evaluating whether it has any influence on the way we report
so we'll be confirming that and letting you know whether it has any implications for the way we
describe our external revenues. For the time being, we do not think this is necessary. But as we
continue our investigation, we will provide more transparency on this.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Gross margin, second half for this year and beyond. Sorry.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So I wanting to comment on the gross margin for the rest of the year. I believe the level of gross
margin that we have for the first half is a good indication for the second half. Obviously, the mix
of products evolves all the time. It's a bit more difficult to project. But I believe it's a very good
indication. And I probably, later years, I think the – it should remain still a very high gross margin.
But it will be influenced, as I was just explaining, by the mix of products in our portfolio.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So we have a certain, I mean sort of – you can imagine a downward pressure coming from losing
CRESTOR which has a high gross margin. On the other hand, we're going to have upward
pressure coming from growth in oncology products that have a high margin, so we're just – have
to monitor what this mix looks like. And so, should we move to `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC at Cowen. Steve, go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you. I have a few questions. First, how does AstraZeneca view the CheckMate 568 trial,
that's Bristol's single arm lung trial of the nivo/ipi combo which is to report in January? Bristol
states that it is a medical informing trial, but does Astra view it as a competitive threat to MYSTIC,
because Bristol could have combo data first and has two agents that are approved? The second
question is just to clarify, does AstraZeneca believe it needs to hit both PFS and OS to file
MYSTIC, or is only one or the other sufficient? And then lastly, it appears the THEMIS trial has
slipped from 2017 to 2018, and I'm just wondering why. Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Okay. So that first thing is on the BMS data, it's not a randomized, controlled trial. So I think its
ability can – physicians particularly in the United States use these drugs off-label, but they can if
they find the data compelling, but we think it's unlikely – BMS has said, it's unlikely to be a label-
enabling trial. MYSTIC PFS, yes, we can trial on PFS and MYSTIC's original design focused primarily
on PFS because it is being enrolled in places where crossover from the chemo arm to IO is a
possibility, and the question was might that confound the OS endpoint.
But we'll find that out later, and then separately we have NEPTUNE with a combination in all
comers, and that's an OS primary endpoint trial as the sole primary endpoint, which is
confirmatory as well. And THEMIS, yeah, what happens with these trials is you get the enrollment
rate, you get the event rate, that's another event-driven trial. That affects the maturity and so ifthe events come slower than you'd like, you end up moving the time line. We try to be reasonably
conservative, but we don't always get it quite right, and so we update as we get more data on
when we expect the outcome.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Good. Thanks very much. Thanks very much. `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC at Leerink. Go ahead, Seamus.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thanks very much, can you guys hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yep. Go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Okay. Great. So just wanted to ask a couple of questions. So from, just to clarify on Andrew's
question with regard to the timing of the head to head trial of ibrutinib versus acalabrutinib. I
didn't hear if you stated whether or not it was possible that we could have a readout sooner than
what was stated on clinicaltrials.gov, which is a 2019 primary completion. And can you just remind
us what the goals of that evaluation are – evaluation is? I would presume that it's primarily safety
so it would just be helpful to know how that trial is designed and when you would feel you have
confidence in certainly non-inferiority with the prospect of perhaps a better safety profile.
The second question is again on MYSTIC. The Agency seems to have offered and demonstrated
quite a bit of flexibility as it relates to tests and cut-offs in oncology clinical trials. Can you just help
us understand if there may be that type of flexibility with regard to the PD-L1 test if the PD-L1 test
could be utilized as a primary analysis in the MYSTIC study? And if you could move the cut-off
because I believe your cut-off has historically been 25%. Is it possible that, given the data that
you've seen from other companies and the analysis or the alignment of some of the other clinical
data sets, looking at your PD-L1 test versus others, it seems like altering that perhaps down to
even 1% might be possible. So just wondering what the flexibility is on some of those end points.
And then just the last question. The FLORA study, are we still on track for a second half readout
on the FLORA study? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Seamus. Sean, for you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Okay. Acalabrutinib. So we expect the relapsed/refractory data, our current base case, and again,
these are event-driven. So just think the THEMIS qualification I gave applies here. 2018, the
relapsed/refractory, the head-to-head you mentioned too. So the question there is, there are two
aspects to this, obviously. There's superiority and efficacy. And then there's the safety profile. And
we'll get both of those out of there. We believe there is an opportunity for superiority with two
attributes.One is being able to stay on acalabrutinib longer due to ability to tolerate. And the second is
we've shared some data on our inhibition level of PTK kinase activity at trough with the twice-daily
dosing with acalabrutinib and it's greater in the mid to high 90%s than the mid 80%s that
Pharmacyclics has shared with ibrutinib. Now the question is will that translate into a different
efficacy. And that's a clinical question.
And then the front line is 2019, going to MYSTIC and cut-offs. We agree with you completely that
the data sets are a little confusing by virtue of the different assays. We do think that this will be
illuminated over time. And at this point, we have the ability to compare our assays. And some of
that data's already been shared publicly. The other part is a trial design question, so could we
change the cut-off from where we are? And the other answer is, we can rewrite the analysis plan
as long as the trial's blinded and we haven't done an analysis. So there is an opportunity for us to
look at that and change that in the analysis plan. Now that's the kind of thing you can only do once
because then you have to put your nickel down and look at the data and then you're positive or
negative.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
FLORA.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
FLORA, FLORA is on track for second half of 2017. I think that was the question.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks very much. Emmanuel Papadakis at MainFirst. Emmanuel, go ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel D. Papadakis, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Hi. It was just a couple of questions around cash generation, actually for Marc. The first was I saw
you booked a $347 million charge as other in the quarter, IFRS reconciliation. I couldn't find any
detailing of the exact components of that. Any color would be very helpful, particularly which
element of that might be cash versus noncash? And the second was just around cash generation
for the full year. I think, Marc, you'd previously commented it would be broadly in line with last
year, $3 billion or so. It was relatively weak if my math is correct in Q2. Just wondering if you would
reaffirm that expectation or are we looking above or below? Many thanks.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. So the first question on the $347 million which is one of the noncore adjustments. It
contains two groups of expenses. The first one, there are many legal provisions. And the other
one is fair value of contingent consideration. These are the – this is the components, the two
components of the $347 million. We do not provide a sort of product by product detail of the
legal fees or legal compensation.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Considering that the fair provisions and...
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Therefore they are – it's not a question are they cash or noncash, they are for the time being
noncash.A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And the second is cash generation for the full year.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So the first – cash generation for the full year should be in line with what you have – what you see
in the first half. But obviously, this is dependent to some extent to the type and structure of the
expiration (90:32) and other income agreements that we will sign in the second half. We have
also indicated that we will have a very active second half of the year, so this needs to be
considered in this. But I think it's, where you are now, I mean roughly in line with the first half
would be a very good projection.
Q - `Emmanuel D. Papadakis, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Jeff Holford at Jefferies, Jeff, go ahead.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks very much. Given that a lot of your IO focus in the future is going to be on combinations, I
wonder if you can just give us your thoughts on how you think pricing of combination of IO agents
is going to be done? Whether you think we're going to get into sort of caps-type models with a
limited revenue per patient via just for us to help thinking about longer-term modeling of some of
these?
Also just wonder if you can just give us a bit of an update on your OX40 program. I know that
you're committing an asset into mid and late-stage programs now. Just wondering when we'll
see those mid and late-stage programs? And what the focus of those will be? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you. Sean, do you want to start with OX40 and the other mid-stage programs?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
The – okay. Yeah. Sure. I'll go to OX40. So as you may know, we selected a particular OX40
agonist antibody MedImmune has, as the lead molecule on which to invest. And we're in the
process of studying that in combination with durvalumab. And depending upon when we are able
to define the dose, we will then initiate the late-stage trials. Where to go with it I think is
something that you – follow whatever signal you generate in the earlier-stage trials, if you get
one, and then I think also there is of course the patient selection hypothesis around OX40 that
we will also test in the clinical program.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you. Combinational pricing, Luke?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive Vice President Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS), Global `
So I think, Jeff, and I think we're already seeing this across geographies, there is a essentially aplanning to happen with IO-IO happens then what's likely to be the evolution of pricing with this
CTLA-4 class. And I think it's fair to say that the current pricing in melanoma is unlikely to remain
there. We have a lot of strategic flexibility and a lot of good ideas in terms of what we can do with
the combination of durva and treme. I won't go into them today, but again, we think we can bring
something that's very competitive and very attractive to countries and patients, optimistic.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Luke. I mean it's clear that, Jeff, we believe that we'll have to manage costs of those
combinations. And we have many ideas as Luke said, and those will be different country by
country, so there's a whole list of options to manage the cost. And it depends on the payers and
the logistics of what we can do country by country.
So, let me just close here. This was really a very busy session; lots of great questions. Thank you
for that. And the exciting part is that it – actually the wealth of questions reflect the strength and
the wealth of our pipeline. And the fact that over the next 12 months, we'll have a news flow that
certainly will actually give a lot more proof points of our progress and clarify the landscape for us
for the next few years. Thank you again for all of your interest and we certainly look forward to
meeting many investors during the road shows over the next ten days. Thank you again. Thank
you bye-bye.