Q2 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q2 2016 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Audio Webcast.
Please note that during the presentation, all participants will be in listen-only mode and the
conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask
questions . A recording of the conference call, including the Q&A session will be available on our
website shortly after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. Joe Jimenez, CEO of Novartis. Please go ahead, sir.
Joseph Jimenez `
Thank you and welcome everybody to our second quarter earnings call. Joining me on the
Novartis end are Harry Kirsch, our CFO; Vas Narasimhan, our Head of Global Drug Development;
Paul Hudson, the new Head of the Pharma Business; Bruno Strigini, Head of Oncology; Mike Ball,
Head of Alcon; and Richard Francis, Head of Sandoz.
Now, before we start, I'd like Samir to read the Safe Harbor statement. Samir?
Samir Shah `Thank you, Joe. The information presented in this conference call contains forward-looking
statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. These may
cause the actual results to be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such statements.
Please refer to the company's Form 20-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for a description of some of these factors.
Joseph Jimenez `
Thanks, Samir. Okay. Starting on slide number four. We had a solid quarter. So despite the
Gleevec impact, our sales were flat in constant currency, which means that our Growth Products
fully offset the Gleevec loss of exclusivity.
Core operating income was down 4%, reflecting the Gleevec impact as well as the launch
investments that we're making behind Entresto and Cosentyx. The launches are progressing well.
We'll talk about them in a minute and we also good innovation in the quarter.
On slide five, we had five priorities for 2016, and we've made progress on all of them. So let me
start with the first on slide six. When you look division-by-division, Innovate Medicines sales were
down just 1% and excluding Gleevec, they were up 3%. Sandoz had a solid quarter, up 3%. And
this was particularly good because all regions in Sandoz were up nicely. Alcon was down 1% in the
quarter. And as we've said previously, we expected the first half to be still down and we are on
track to return to top-line growth by the end of the year.
Now, our second priority is to strengthen innovation. And we have some very good news on
Entresto in the second quarter. You all saw how we received positive news on the treatment
guidelines, which came about six months earlier than what we had previously expected. The
Class I recommendation means that physician should prescribe Entresto for all appropriate
patients, given the strong clinical data.
We also had a very positive publication in JAMA Cardiology that Entresto could prevent or
postpone more than 28,000 deaths per year in the U.S. alone. So based on the earlier and
better-than-expected guidelines, we've made the decision to increase spending in the second
half of the year significantly versus our original budget. This will be to support the U.S. field force
primary care build out, as well as additional medical support.
Additionally, as we've stated earlier, we have initiated a clinical trial program under the name
FortiHFy. This is going to allow us to study heart failure in Entresto, generate additional data on
symptom reduction, on quality of life benefits, among some other things.
But if you look at slide eight, in terms of uptake, we shipped $32 million in the quarter, but you
can see that the U.S. is at least beginning to create a break in the trend line. And so this gives us
additional confidence that now is the time to pull that spending forward based on the good news
and based on the beginning of some traction on Entresto.
Outside the U.S., we're getting some positive HTA responses. So NICE in the U.K. and IQWiG in
Germany both have endorsed Entresto as cost effective. So we believe we're on track for the full
year 200,000 (sic) [$200 million] (04:54) forecast that we had given previously.
Cosentyx continues to be very strong with the three indications launched in many major markets.
So we've completed the U.S. field force expansion and we're going to continue driving this as it
continues to exceed our expectations.You can see on slide 10, we've got a very strong, very early launch in ankylosing spondylitis and
psoriatic arthritis. We're taking share from Humira and from Enbrel, and we have head-to-head
superiority trials planned versus Humira. So this is turning out to be, I think one of the most
successful launches in Novartis history.
We also had good pipeline news on the quarter as shown on slide 11. LEE, the Phase III trial was
stopped early. We intend to file shortly and Afinitor was approved in the U.S. and Europe for GI
and lung neuroendocrine tumors.
In Pharma, the FLAME study showed that Ultibro significantly reduces the rate of COPD
exacerbations and prolongs the time to first exacerbation compared to Seretide, so this is an
important study for the future of Ultibro.
And then, on slide 12, you can see that innovation doesn't just happen in the Innovative Medicines
division. Sandoz also had good biosimilars news. Etanercept, we had the very positive FDA
Advisory Committee unanimous vote to recommend approval in all five indications of Enbrel. And
also rituximab was accepted by the EMA. This is the sixth major biosimilar file acceptance over the
last 12 months. We've got two more filings planned in 2016.
Now the third priority is shown on 13, this is to turn Alcon, and we're showing some progress
here. So we're accelerating innovation and sales. We've increased marketing and sale expense
behind the Surgical and the Vision Care business. We're starting to see some reaction on contact
lenses, which grew in the quarter, also, cataract consumables grew in the quarter. So Mike and his
team continue to build strong customer relationships while they're improving the basic
operations.
The fourth priority is to advance our productivity agenda, and you can see that Novartis Business
Services cost under management, which was just under $5 billion, were held flat versus year ago.
So that includes investment in some areas and cost reduction in others. And we have begun the
restructuring to be more productive by starting to offshore some activity into the five Global
Service Centers.
Also, on July 1, we went live with our integrated global manufacturing group as well as our Global
Drug Development group and we moved 28,000 employees into the manufacturing unit and
6,000 into Global Drug Development. And we expect cost synergies from the manufacturing
changes, as well as Global Drug Development to be around $1 billion per year by 2020, and we'll
have one-time restructuring costs of about $1.4 billion spread over five years.
On slide 16, finally on building a high-performing organization, in addition to the manufacturing
and development organizations going live on July 1, we also created the independent Novartis
Oncology business unit operating right alongside Novartis Pharmaceuticals. So as a result, our
divisions are more focused, our functions have greater scale to drive efficiency, and importantly, I
believe this improves our control of the company as we're moving from independent divisions
into what is now an integrated company.
So now, Harry is going to talk through the financials. Harry?
Harry Kirsch `
Thank you, Joe. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. Before I dive into the financial
results, I just want to remind you that we updated our 2015 segment financials to reflect the new
divisional structure announced in January, so all comparisons are on a like-for-like basis. Inaddition, as usual, my comments refer to continuing operations and growth rates in constant
currencies, unless otherwise noted.
Slide 18 shows the usual summary of our performance noting that this was the first full quarter of
Gleevec loss of exclusivity in the U.S. We delivered a solid performance on the top-line with net
sales of $12.5 billion, in line with prior year. That performance was driven by continued strong
uptake of our Growth Products across neuroscience, oncology and other disease areas. Core
operating income was $3.3 billion, down 4% in Q2, mainly due to investments in Entresto,
Cosentyx and Alcon, which I will come back to later in my presentation.
Net income of $1.8 billion was in line with the prior year, benefiting from a higher income
contribution from our Consumer Healthcare joint venture with GSK. Core EPS was $1.23, down 1%
only, benefiting from a reduction in shares outstanding. Free cash flow was $2.5 billion,
significantly above the prior-year quarter, due to lower investments in capital expenditures and
intangible assets and the dividend from the Consumer Healthcare joint venture.
Slide 19 shows the impact of generics that we saw in the top-line and the bottom-line in quarter
two. Sales volume grew 5% in the quarter. We had a negative impact of minus 1% on price and
generics took us down from 4% growth to flat in constant currency.
With the currency impact flat and constant currency became a minus 2% decline in U.S. dollars.
You'll see a similar but more pronounced story in the bottom-line. Volume growth of 14% was
more than offset by minus 6% of price and minus 12% on generics.
Now, let's turn to margins on slide 20. Core operating margin for the group was down 1.1
percentage points in quarter two as Innovative Medicines and Alcon margins declined while
Sandoz showed a slight improvement. Innovative Medicines sales were down 1% as volume
growth was fully offset by generic impacts, mainly from Gleevec. And price had a minus 1%
impact.
Core operating income was down 4% due to generic erosion, as well as investments into the
Entresto and Cosentyx launches. This resulted in a core margin decline of 1% point to 31.8% of
sales. Sandoz grew sales by 3%, driven by Biopharmaceuticals despite lapping the launch of
Glatopa in the U.S. in the prior-year quarter.
Sandoz core operating income grew faster than sales at 4%, mainly due to productivity
improvements and some small legal settlements, while continuing investments in biosimilars and
other key projects. This resulted in a core margin improvement of 0.2 percentage points to
20.8% of sales.
Alcon sales were down 1%, while core operating income declined 15%, mainly due to higher
investments in marketing and sales, and R&D behind the growth plan. This resulted in a core
margin decline of 2.6 percentage points to 15.8% of sales.
If you look back over the past year, you'll see that Alcon's core M&S and R&D spend has
significantly increased as a percentage of sales. These are necessary investments to return the
business to growth as part of the Alcon growth plan. While core operating income margin Alcon
has declined to its prior year, we expect to return margins to the low-20%s to mid-20%s
overtime, with the successful execution of the growth plan.
Now, let's look at some of our growth drivers in the Innovative Medicines Division on slide 21. Joe
already talked about Cosentyx and Entresto. A few others to highlight here include clearly
Gilenya, which continue to grow double digit mainly due to volume growth and Tasigna, whichcontinue to grow even in the U.S. where generic Gleevec is now available. Other Growth Products
like Tafinlar + Mekinist, Jakavi and Promacta/Revolade also showed strong double-digit sales
increase.
Please note that for the oncology assets we acquired from GSK, this is the first quarter where we
can show growth rates versus prior year since the acquisition closed in March 2015.
Slide 22 shows the currency impact for quarter two 2016 of minus 2% on the top-line, and minus
3% on the bottom-line, which was slightly better than we expected in April, mainly due to the
strengthening of the yen versus the dollar. Assuming early July rates prevail for the remainder of
the year, the full-year impact would be minus 1% on the top-line, and minus 3% on the bottom-
line. For quarter three, we estimate the currency impact to be minus 1% and minus 2% for the top-
line and bottom-line.
On slide 23, you can see that our net debt stood at $20.6 billion at the end of the first half. The
two largest contributing factors for the change in net debt were the annual dividend payment of
$6.5 billion offset by our free cash flow of $3.9 billion for the first half. The other smaller elements
are illustrated on the slide.
On slide 24, I like to turn to our full-year outlook. Group net sales are expected to be broadly in
line with the prior year in constant currency as per the guidance we gave in January. Based on the
positive treatment guidelines for Entresto, which were published about half a year earlier than we
expected in the U.S., we have made the decision to pull forward our investments in the U.S.
primary care field force and incremental medical support into the second half of 2016. We expect
this to accelerate the uptake of Entresto and maximize future peak sales.
Without these additional investments, we were on track to meet our guidance for core operating
income of broadly in line with the prior year. The incremental spending of about $0.2 billion could
reduce our core operating income to a low-single digit decline versus prior year.
However, the shape of the Gleevec generic erosion curve could be a source of upside on core
operating income. While it is very difficult to predict depending on the shape of the curve, we
could still end the year with core operating income broadly in line with the year ago, even with the
additional investments mentioned. This is why we are now giving a range for our guidance on the
bottom-line of broadly in line to a low-single digit decline.
Just a final word on the dynamics for core operating income in the second half. The key tailwinds
are the expected continued uptake for Cosentyx, Entresto and our other Growth Products, as
well as our ongoing productivity programs. In terms of headwinds, we have the incremental
spending for Entresto, as well as the impact of Gleevec generic erosion as we expect multiple
entrants in August once Sun's 180-day exclusivity period expires. Based on these factors within
the second half, quarter three core operating income could decline low to mid-single digits.
And with that, I now hand over to Vas.
Vasant Narasimhan `
Great. Thank you, Harry, and good morning and good afternoon, everyone. If I could have slide
26. On the innovation front, Novartis had another strong quarter in new data, an important
progress on what we believe is the leading pipeline in the industry. As Joe mentioned, we have
now brought together Novartis Drug Development across the group into a single organization,
focused on delivering world-class innovation and world-class operations.We group our innovation efforts into Pharmaceuticals which covers our non-Oncology TAs;
Oncology, including cell and gene therapy; and Biopharmaceuticals, our biosimilars unit. Our goal
is to lead in both drug development productivity and efficiency, and we're now working hard to
ensure integrated portfolio management, world-class systems, best-in-class talent and
streamlined operations across the group.
Now, in Q2, we had a number of important data readouts and milestones demonstrating the
breadths and depths of our pipeline. If I could have slide 27, starting with neuroscience, we were
pleased in collaboration with our partner Amgen to announce the top-line results of AMG 334,
our calcitonin gene-related peptide antagonist in chronic migraine. As many of you are aware, we
hold the ex-U.S., ex-Japan and ex-Canada rights to this program as part of our Alzheimer's
migraine collaboration with Amgen.
Now, there about 70 million migraine sufferers in the G7 countries, with nearly 7 million on some
form of prevention. Chronic migraine sufferers in particular have a very poor quality of life with 15
or more headache days a month and these patients are really desperate for better therapies. As
you can see in this study, we met the primary endpoint of the statistically significant reduction in
mean migraine days from baseline with a very good safety profile.
Key trial results including secondary endpoints will be presented at the European Headache and
Migraine Trust International Congress in September. We're also awaiting the Phase III results of
our episodic migraine program with Amgen later this year.
If we can move to slide 28, in respiratory, our portfolio continues to advance. As Joe noted, in
May, we announced the publication of our landmark FLAME study comparing our LABA/LAMA,
Ultibro, to the leading LABA/ICS, Seretide.
Our goal in this study was to look at exacerbations, which is the best predictor of five-year
mortality, declining quality of life and disease progression. In this fully-powered Phase IIIb trial, we
demonstrated with our daily dosing regimen that Ultibro led to a 22% reduction in first-time
exacerbations, a 17% reduction in overall exacerbation rate and showed statistically significant
improvements in lung function and quality of life.
Ultibro is licensed worldwide and we expect the GOLD Science Committee which evaluates new
scientific evidence on COPD care to consider this data in the coming months for potential future
guideline updates.
Moving to slide 29, in cardiovascular, we've had a number of important events for Entresto this
quarter, highlighting this is a drug that is unique and that it's shown a mortality benefit, it's cost
effective and it has the support of key guideline committees around the world.
In May, we announced the launch of our FortiHFy program. It's the largest-ever heart failure clinical
program with over 40 trials and 30,000 investigators. Our goal is to address any remaining data
gaps that exists with Entresto initiation such as in-hospital initiation with our TRANSITION study,
using preserved ejection fraction heart failure with our PARADIGM study, initiation in the pre-heart
failure setting with our PARADIGM study, as well as to generate real-world evidence on the
impact of Entresto on quality of life and outcomes.
As Joe mentioned, our lead investigators from the PARADIGM study continue to publish a range
of secondary analyses, including recent publications in JAMA, showing Entresto could prevent or
postpone 28,000 deaths a year. And an additional publication that showed that if used in the
indicated population, Entresto has a very attractive cost effectiveness for the U.S. healthcare
system.Moving to slide 30. As many of you are also aware, we were very pleased with the early release
of the guidelines in the U.S. and Europe, giving Entresto a Class I rating in both geographies. Now,
in the U.S., the strong recommendation means Entresto should be used in all reduced ejection
fraction symptomatic patients, which includes, by definition, patients in Class II and III heart failure,
covering nearly 80% of the reduced ejection fraction heart failure patients.
In Europe, the recommendation applies to reduced ejection fraction patients in Class II, III or IV,
but importantly, it was restricted to the inclusion criteria used in the PARADIGM study particularly
that patients need to tolerate a maximal dose of enalapril. We continue to work with the EU
guidelines committees to provide additional data to ensure that all heart failure patients can draw
the full benefit of Entresto in line with the labeling that we have achieved with EMA.
Now, on slide 31, we talk about Cosentyx. And for Cosentyx, we continue to generate additional
data that show that IL-17A inhibition should be of the standard of care for patients with, not only
psoriasis, but also ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis.
In ankylosing spondylitis, we released data in June showing that Cosentyx prevents radiographic
progress in 80% of patients at two years, setting a new standard for the disease. Given this data
and other supportive indirect analyses we have conducted, we plan to move forward with a head-
to-head study versus Humira to definitively show Cosentyx should be the first choice for these
patients.
Moving to slide 32, similarly in psoriatic arthritis, we've showed that up to 84% of patients do not
progress on X-ray while on Cosentyx through two years, and these patients had sustained
improvements in signs and symptoms of the disease. We also plan to initiate a head-to-head
study versus Humira in psoriatic arthritis. So taken together, you can see, with Cosentyx, we
continue to generate long-term data that compellingly shows the impact of the IL-17A
mechanisms on these diseases.
Now, moving to slide 33, also in our immunology and dermatology franchise, we were very
pleased to release breakthrough data for Ilaris, our anti-IL-1 monoclonal antibody and hereditary
periodic fever syndromes. Now, this is a fever syndrome that's a debilitating disease for children,
and it's a rare disease but an important disease.
In this study, we showed we were able to resolve flares at a much higher rate than placebo giving
these children a hope of a much better quality of life. We've received three breakthrough therapy
designations and three priority reviews for these programs, and filings in both the U.S. and
Europe are complete. Along with recent approvals we've achieved an Adult-Onset Still's Disease.
Ilaris is now approved in a broad range of rare diseases and demonstrates our ability to bring
innovative therapies to high unmet need populations.
So moving to slide 34, in Oncology, we continue to build out our data set on our targeted therapy
pipeline. We announced in May that our DMC recommended to stop our LEE Phase III study in
first-line hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer as the stopping
criteria was fully met. Now, we plan to release the full data set at ESMO, the European Society for
Medical Oncology, in October, and we're currently preparing for filings with regulatory agencies
worldwide.
Now, our goal with LEE is to build a broad range of clinical data to support its use in breast cancer,
and we have now completed enrolment of MONALEESA-3, which is in first-line and second-line in
combination with fulvestrant, a study we believe that's going to be extremely important given the
recent FALCON study, which demonstrated fulvestrant's benefit over aromatase inhibitors. We'veexpect to file both indications if the data are positive in 2018, and to be the first CDK4/6 with this
broad label.
Now, moving to slide 35, also, in Oncology, we continue to generate data supporting the use of
Tafinlar + Mekinist in combination in BRAF mutant metastatic melanoma and advanced non-small
cell lung cancer. We believe, for patients with this mutation, this combination offers the best
option. In metastatic melanoma, our COMBI-d three-year survival data continues to confirm the
benefit of the combination with 44% overall survival, setting a new landmark for this cancer.
Moving to slide 36, in non-small cell lung cancer, we released data for the Taf-Mek combination at
ASCO, demonstrating a superior response rate and a medium progression-free survival versus
Tafinlar monotherapy, with a safety profile consistent with what we have seen in melanoma for
this combination. Now, we're working hard and progressing towards regulatory submissions in the
U.S., EU and Japan for Q3 in this year.
Now, lastly on the Oncology, on slide 37, we talk about Jakavi, where we released data showing a
continued overall survival benefit versus placebo in myelofibrosis. In addition, in polycythemia
vera, we demonstrated significantly improved hematocrit control in patients without an enlarged
spleen. And now, this is data that's consistent with previous data we've released in patients with
an enlarged spleen. Now, the COMFORT-I and COMFORT-II data and the response studies are
both already in our label and we will include the RESPONSE-II data into the label update later this
year.
Now, taken together on slide 38, you can see we continue to progress our pipeline with 11
potential blockbuster therapies with readouts over the next three years, importantly, Fovista, later
this year; AMG, as I already mentioned, later this year; and serelaxin, in the first part of next year.
We're very pleased with the progress we're making and it really shows that we can continue to
build TA depth and progress our leadership in key areas of unmet need.
Now, moving to slide 39, turning to biosimilars, we had a few key regulatory events and data that
we wanted to highlight. First, with rituximab, we filed in the EU, based on our data in follicular
lymphoma. For this program, we have demonstrated equivalent pharmacokinetics,
pharmacodynamics, safety, efficacy and immunogenicity to MabThera.
Now, pegfilgrastim, we received a complete response letter from FDA at the end of June. And
we have worked closely with the agency throughout this program and are continuing to work with
the agency to determine how best to answer their questions.
And finally, as many of you saw with etanercept release data confirming our strong biosimilarities
to the originator. And we were really very pleased with the positive vote at last week's FDA
Advisory Committee. When you look across our biosimilars portfolio, we continue to make strong
progress and believe we are on track to deliver one of the broadest biosimilars portfolios in the
industry.
With that, I hand it back over to Joe.
Joseph Jimenez `
Thanks, Vas. Okay. So to conclude, we had a solid quarter. We're increasing our investment
behind our growth opportunities. We're driving our launches, and we're delivering against the
pipeline.
So now, what I'd like to do is open it up to questions.Q&A
Operator
The first question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, JPMorgan Securities Plc from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Vosser, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. So first question on the incremental investment for Entresto.
The $200 million, I think, seems relatively large given the 600 rep sales force you were
suggesting at Meet Management taking around six months to recruit. So could you talk about
whether you're adding additional reps beyond that 600, whether you can recruit quicker than the
six months or is there actually incremental investment here behind other Pharma programs and
products that are in this investment number?
Second question, also on Entresto. Last quarter, you gave some idea of curves of uptake in
European countries for Entresto. Just if you'd give us an idea what's going on there. And also, in
the U.S., how the negotiations around prior authorizations are progressing in terms of removing
those?
And then final question, just on Alcon. Broadly, we've seen some weakness in the quarter in Asia
from the IOLs. Is this is a pricing impact? Are you losing share? Is this an effect we've already seen
in other geographies in 2015? Or is there still pressure to come? And how does that feed
through into the turnaround? Is that still on track? Thank you very much.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Thanks, Richard. We'll start with Paul on the Entresto questions starting with spending.
A - Paul Hudson `
Okay. Thank you, Richard. Paul Hudson here. So let's break it down. Yes, we have made the
additional investments, and we make a combination of investment in field force and investment in
MSL. With them also go the necessary investment for the programs to allow them to be effective
for what they're doing.
Now, you ask a question about how quickly it ramps up. There is a mixture, as we go into primary
care of the CSL component and Novartis head count component. It allows us to ramp-up,
perhaps, faster than people are expecting. That said, just because we can get the team on the
ground quickly, we shouldn't underestimate the time needed to educate and get them up to
speed in terms of delivery to the level we would expect to reflect the changing and positive
environment.
When you put it all together, the majority of the $200 million goes into these investments, and
these are required based on the change in landscape, the confidence we feel, the plans we have
in place and the recent trends.
Outside of that, you asked about launch uptake in Europe, I think. The trend that I believe you've
been shown previously for Germany continues. We're very pleased with the uptake. I think it's
worth mentioning and maybe Joe mentioned it in the preamble, we had a positive IQWiG, we
also had a positive NICE. We had a positive ICE, of course, in the U.S. So it's no surprise we're off
to a good start. Of course, don't forget we have somewhat of a restricted launch in France, and
we wait for that to bottom out, and we get into full usage. And, I think, Italy and Spain are goingOn the prior auths, the last question, I have some working knowledge with this type of
marketplace, and what I would expect to see an evolution in terms of a reduction, if you like, in
the prior auth environment. The P&T committees and others meet on their own schedule. We
introduce the guidelines to them. They pick them up. They work them through. And then, we will
see a gradual softening of the prior auths.
I've had preliminary conversations myself at a senior level with U.S. payers, and I see nothing but a
gradual progress that we'll make along this journey. So confident in the $200 million we have in
expectations this year, and looking forward to demonstrating what we can do and what we can
exit in fact at the end of 2016.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Thanks, Paul. And Mike, on Alcon IOLs?
A - F. Michael Ball `
And so, with respect to Asia then, so we are in fact looking into this weakness. Preliminarily, what I
think it is, is some issues with distributors, both in China and India. We also though, clearly, are
having issues from an ASP standpoint, which is impacting us.
Now, we do have new management teams on the ground there since the end of last year,
beginning of this year, so I expect that, as we move through the year, we'll get some resolution in
terms of what exactly is going on here, and what exactly we can do about it.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Thanks. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Exane BNP Paribas from Exane BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Exane BNP Paribas `
Thank you. Three questions, please. Just following on Alcon, could you give us an update on your
IOL pipeline progress there? We saw Abbott get FDA approval last week for their next-
generation multifocal lens, TECNIS, and that included toric version. And I recall toric lenses were a
key focus for Alcon, your next-generation pipeline. So perhaps, you could give us an update there
in light of the competitive progress?
Secondly on CTL019, it doesn't feature on slide 38 of your path with the potential blockbusters.
How should we interpret that absence? Should we assume that you do not foresee blockbuster
potential for that particular asset? Or that you're some way less enthusiastic about that project
going forward?
And then on LEE011, can you talk us through how you intend to position that asset given Ibrance is
already in the market and has first-line data? Do you see any rationale to use a second CDK4/6
after you failed on another? Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Let's start with Mike on the IOL innovation that's coming.A - F. Michael Ball `
So if I look at what we've got actually in market right now that's just been launched, so I'll turn
your attention over to Europe where we've just launched the PanOptix trifocal as well as our
UltraSert offerings. We've also launched the UltraSert here in the United States. As I look down
the road, I look from a material standpoint, we've got a new material IOL coming along, which is
called the Clarion (35:09), which we expect in the mid-term. And then, as I look further out, we
have another IOL, which is an accommodating IOL for presbyopia in the PowerVision as you've
heard us refer to it.
So we seem to have, I think, a reasonably robust pipeline in there. I should also say that, we
believe, that the market for ATIOLs, which we have, of course, the multifocal and the torics, is
relatively underpenetrated. So one of our investment hypotheses is to put more money behind
that and, in fact, grow the marketplace there. So I still think we have lots of opportunities with the
IOLs as I look to the mid-term and so, a pretty robust pipeline.
With respect to the approval of the AMO Symfony, we've been up against that in a few markets
around the world and, I would say, we've done well.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Good. Thanks, Mike. Vas, on CART 19?
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
Thanks for the question, Kerry. On CTL019, we remain on track. We're very confident in our
upcoming filing in pediatric ALL early next year. And we continue to progress our program in
DLBCL with a filing we plan in the following year. We continue to believe in this technology and
believe that this will be an – have a really important place in cancer care. So no change in our
outlook and our confidence in CTL019.
And then, with respect to LEE, we view this as a very sizeable market. We believe CDK4/6 is
going to become a very important class of drug. And, we think, we can position this best by
continuing to generate data in additional settings, including in first-line settings with fulvestrant as
well as in pre-menopausal women as I noted. And we continue to evaluate the potential to take it
into the adjuvant and neoadjuvant setting. And, I think, I'll turn it over to maybe Bruno for the
commercial positioning.
A - Bruno Strigini `
I think that you're absolutely right, Vas. By all account, this market is predicted to be a $10 billion-
plus market. And we believe that we'll have competitive assets given the full program that you've
described and that we are developing as we speak.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And launch timing in Europe will be, actually, very close to Ibrance?
A - Bruno Strigini `
Right. Absolutely. We anticipate filing before the end of the year, which will mean that the launch
timing will be very, very close to that of (37:32).
A - Joseph Jimenez `Okay. Next question, please?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Andrew Baum from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you. Two questions, please. First, I was underwhelmed by the single partial response in the
spider plots for your PD-1 data that you showcased at ASCO. Given you've got 1,500 patients or
so in clinical trials for this drug, are you comfortable this molecule has a competitive profile as a
cornerstone asset compared with many of the other more advanced compound?
And then, second, broadening the last question, I appreciate several recent high-profile
academic has Novartis immuno-oncology and the ongoing early business developments.
However, from an organization point of view, doesn't future proofing NIBR and oncology research
in general organically involves slow, expensive and apparently (38:23) potential a painful building
of skill sets such as antibody engineering where you're not among the industry leaders. So my
question is, given the time and cost of that, I suspect that's going to entail, how do you assess
the comparative attractiveness of taking a competitor and acquiring it, which has leading antibody
skill set as well as a much broader and advanced I-O pipeline compared with the organic
approach?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Thanks. Vas.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So thanks, Andrew. On the PD-1 data, I mean, this is very early response data and we continue to
monitor our studies closely. But we feel very confident in the PD-1 asset that we have early in
NIBR. I'd also want to note that, we've conducted a number of pipeline deals to bring in-house
really world-class assets from around the biotech community. I think we've done that over six
deals looking at various immuno-oncology mechanisms of action. And we believe we have one of
the broadest portfolios in I-O.
So our view is to take a balanced approach, continue to bring expertise in-house that can
evaluate external technology but also, determine what's the best path with our internal assets,
particularly in combination with targeted therapies.
And, I think, on your second question, I'll hand it back to Joe.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Look, Andrew, I think, when you look at the talent that we have assembled starting with Glenn
Dranoff in immuno-oncology in the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, and then you look
at Jay Bradner, and you look at our recent hire of Jeff Engelman, this is a world-class team in
terms of not just Oncology, but immuno-oncology.
And so we believe that while we did go outside to acquire and in-license a very broad range of
second-generation I-O candidates, as well as the current checkpoint inhibitors that we're
developing, we're developing them for a very specific reason.Immuno-oncology, the winners in immuno-oncology long-term are going to win through
combination therapies, and you better have a broad line of those combination therapies to
capture the economics of what is going to become a capitation model in Oncology going forward
with combination therapies. So we see the checkpoint inhibitors as table stakes to supplement
what is a very strong second generation. So I would disagree that we don't have or that we
haven't assembled the talent to be able to do this internally.
Okay. Next question, please?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Matt Weston from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you very much. And, three questions if I can. The first on Entresto and the investment in
primary care. I mean, one of the issues you've highlighted in the launch so far is that cardiologists
don't have the office staff or the experience to fill in the forms to drive past the prior
authorization. And Paul's answer in terms of a gradual erosion of that prior auth or softening of
prior auth suggest it will remain an issue for some time. So how confident are you that U.S.
primary care docs have the office staff or the experience to manage all the prior authorization
paperwork? Or have you found a way with your investment in medical liaison where you can help
them do that?
Secondly, around Cosentyx, clearly a very strong performance in Q2. Can you please just set out
how you have seen the landscape change with the launch of Taltz? Are we seeing the market
being grown by a second entrant? What is their competitive message versus yours? Or is the
growth coming not only from psoriasis but your other indications?
And then thirdly, Vas called out the FLAME data and Ultibro. I mean, clearly, the issue there is that
ADVAIR is going generic ex-U.S., so there is a big price differential. So can you set out whether or
not you expect the COPD guidelines to change over time ex-U.S., and if so, when? And can you
also remind us of your U.S. strategy? I think that's been promised for a number of months and we
still haven't seen what you're doing with the asset there. Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Paul.
A - Paul Hudson `
Okay. Thank you. Thank you for the questions. So let me start with Entresto in primary care. So I
think, so let's be clear. When I said that the barriers are softening, it's a journey and it's a positive
one. We come better-equipped to dealing with it, so do cardiologists. A great part of the
opportunity is still in cardiology.
Let me then say about the primary care piece. Often, primary care does have better or more
well-developed skills with physicians' offices that have been on this journey themselves before in
helping overcome these barriers. And they see a large number of patients to equip them to be
able to do that and get into a normal operating rhythm. Now, we supply all the tools and materials
within the rules of the game to enable them to do that. So looking at adding on the primary care
physician prescribers, looking at what that means in terms of the number of patients present. We
think that the timing is right to be able to overcome those things, resulting in the field asAs with Cosentyx, thank you for complimenting us on the great quarter. It was a really outstanding
performance. It came across the board, frankly, psoriasis plus ankylosing spondylitis plus psoriatic
arthritis. It's a great performance by the team, great work across the board in fact.
The opportunity comes for us with having two anti-IL17s in the market. You realize how important
this class of drugs is. We know that, we think, they'll be the leading class available for patients
across the spondyloarthropathies and dermatology in general. But we also note that with a new
competitor and some difficult to treat patients, they do get some early uptake.
For us, it's a long-term game and for us we have to clearly look at the fact that we are indeed
fully human, that we have low immunogenicity, and that leads, of course, to a strong and durable
response. And, in fact, we look forward to the full-year data, I think, next year, that'll confirm that.
Beyond that, of course, the low to no immunogenicity presents an opportunity with no or low
injection type reaction. So you've got to remember that the winners in this marketplace will be
able to have great clinical utility in the dermatology market, and we feel more than adequately
placed.
I had the opportunity, having only been on board for two weeks, but to sit down and go through
the plans with the U.S. team, the plans are strong and we know what we need to do to deliver. So
a good performance and, of course, we're optimistic about what's to follow.
FLAME, and I'll ask Vas to comment on guidelines. And then, I'll come back and return to your
point on Ultibro or Utibron in the U.S.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
Matt, I think we believe that the GOLD Committee is aware of this data. And while we don't know
exactly when they'll do a formal review, we would expect it to happen sometime in the back half
of this year towards the end.
A - Paul Hudson `
So let me pick up the Utibron question. I'll take this one on the chin. I've been in the organization a
couple of weeks. And I'm understood that you've been suggested or promised that we'll make a
decision on what happens in the U.S. for some time. Now, I've a bit of a history in respiratory and
I'm excited about evaluating that myself, alongside the team, and everybody here in the
business.
One of the complexities is how the challenge of launching a new medicine in this type of
marketplace and the decisions that have to be made alongside that. And we have to put
alongside that potential changes in guidelines perhaps, even conversations with the FDA around
the FLAME data and whether it's applicable in a U.S. context.
And then, ultimately, we are in play with or head to head with Anoro that'll read out at the end of
this year. So we're feeling – I'm feeling like I just need to do a bit of due diligence with the team
and then get back to, at least, by the end of Q3 and give you a readout.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Next question, please.
OperatorThe next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson from Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. A couple of questions. On your CDK4/6 ribociclib, we haven't seen the data, of
course, but you have for MONALEESA-2 and I'm wondering if you can just give us any indication
on any sort of differentiation with the product either efficacy or safety on that one trial. It could be
molecular differentiation or, generally, when you look for it, is their differentiation in the
development plan? And related to that, do you think the product needs to be clinically
differentiated to capture share or could it be a big drug even if the product profile and
development plan is nearly identical to palbociclib simply because the market is big enough to
support more than just a single product?
And going back on to Entresto guideline, as you characterized them on slide 30, both in the U.S.
and in Europe, patients are recommended to switch from ACEs and ARBs only if they're still
symptomatic. That seems to me like it could still give payers the ability to have prior
authorizations in place requiring that if the guideline suggests they only get Entresto if they're
tried on an ACE and ARB and they're symptomatic, so essentially a sale-first policy. Is that an
accurate characterization in do you view that as still an impediment going forward?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay, Vas.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So on...
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Your mic?
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So I think Bruno is actually going to take the LEE and I'll take the Entresto then. I'm sorry.
A - Bruno Strigini `
So on the differentiation – first of all, the data will be presented to ESMO as we said, early
October. But it is clear that in that market, which is going to be a very large market, differentiation
will be key so will be execution as it will be very important in order to deliver on this asset in this
market. Vas presented some of the data or mentioned some of the data rather that we are
working on, MONALEESA-3, MONALEESA-7, which are going to be pretty unique and which help
us differentiate the asset as we get the indication. And for memory, we will submit for registration
in 2018. So clearly, it's going to be about differentiation in terms of the programs that we're
conducting and about execution which will be extremely important.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So then on the Entresto guidelines, I think, there is some misunderstanding. When you look at
symptomatic heart failure patients, any one in Class II, III and IV, by definition, is symptomatic. So
we've had extensive discussions with the guidelines committee and the way they are
communicating these guidelines is if you have a patient who has progressed to Class II, III or IV,
they should be switched to Entresto. And that's how the guidelines committees view theirrecommendation. So I think we always have to be careful in terms of how we distinguish between
worsening patients and symptomatic patients. So symptomatic patients are to be switched to
Entresto.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Holford from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Jefferies LLC `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my questions. I wondered if you can just give us a little bit more
help on the thinking around Gleevec and the run rate for the rest of the year, obviously that
surprised a bit quarter?
Secondly, any updates regarding your thinking around timing, of either the Roche stake disposal
or potentially getting into some earlier talks with GlaxoSmithKline around your holding in the joint
venture they've indicated (50:29) previously, are you more likely to exit that and potentially
sooner than 2018 if you can?
And then, just lastly, just to ask the question more directly. I think Andrew was referring to, and
many investors do, do you need to buy one of the more advanced I-O developers? I think,
Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca come up most times in terms of conversations with investors. Are
those potential companies that you're at all considering acquiring for the I-O portfolios? Thank
you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Bruno on Gleevec?
A - Bruno Strigini `
So on Gleevec, the performance so far has been in line with our expectations. We held a 50%
share of the molecule and a 30% share of the CML market.
Going forward, we expect that this situation may change when – at the end of the 180 days and
the erosion curve will then depend on the number of entrants and how aggressive they are when
it comes to their pricing strategy.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Regarding the timing of the Roche stake, there is really no new news on this. We've said
over and over again that this is a financial investment for us. We don't necessarily need to now
see a premium to exit it, and when the time is right, we would do it. So there is really no update.
On GSK, we're quite happy with the performance of that JV. If you look at how the business is
performing, we said that our OTC business was subscale. By combining it with GSK's, we would
create a powerhouse that would have global scale and innovation power. And we're already
seeing that start to play out. So I know Andrew and his team are very pleased with it and we're
starting also to see margin improvement even ahead of what we expected.So this is going to be quite a good, I think, financial outcome for the company eventually, so. But
we – and as you mentioned, there's a put at 2018, but as long as there is value that's going to
continue to be generated there, we're happy to participate in it.
Regarding the direct question about whether we need to acquire in I-O, I believe that we have a
very strong self-generated through in-licensing and through acquisition, early-stage immuno-
oncology pipeline. I wouldn't speculate on what else we're going to do, but I would tell you that
we don't have to – I don't feel like we have to do something in the immuno-oncology space given
what's coming. We're talking about this as a long-term play. I think we're in the very early stages
of immuno-oncology, and that's why we have assembled a great team internally, and why we
have invested so much in acquiring these early-stage assets so we have both first and second
generation that are right now in the clinic with combination trials that we're advancing as quickly
as we can.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you very much.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Thanks for the question. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Société Générale SA (France) from Société Générale. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Société Générale SA (France) `
Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much for taking my questions. Three quick ones.
First, on Tasigna, which was quite strong this quarter. Is there any stocking impact this quarter?
And how do you see the trend going forward despite Gleevec genericization and given the
results of ENESTfreedom, which did not show – did not reach the primary endpoint?
And, second question, a quick one on multiple sclerosis. Could you remind us your plan for
ocrelizumab in terms of regulatory filing during the second half?
And a last one on emerging markets, could you elaborate on the performance in Q2 with a plus
2%, which is a bit softer than the Q1 of plus 5%? Is there any specific country which could explain
this or a specific product performance? Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Bruno, Tasigna.
A - Bruno Strigini `
So Florent, good afternoon. On Tasigna, Tasigna in the U.S. continues to grow. It grew 9% this
quarter in the U.S., and held a share of about 20% of the CML market. It's fairly stable, and this is
completely in line with our expectation based on our experience in other markets where Gleevec
LoE has already occurred.
Regarding your question on TFR and the results of ENESTop and ENESTfreedom which were
presented at ASCO, both studies showed that more than 50% of the patients were in TFR after48 weeks. And the data is being discussed with the authorities as we speak and we'll keep you
updated as this progresses.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And, Vas, on MS?
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So thanks for the question, Florent. On ocrelizumab, our plan is for a filing in 2019. I mean, we've
basically, sorry, on ofatumumab, in 2019, we are on track right now to start our Phase III programs
in Q3. We'll be targeting two pivotal studies and we'll look forward to enrolling those quickly and
being on track for a launch in the 2020 timeframe.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And Harry on EGM?
A - Harry Kirsch `
Yeah. Florent, you're right, we have seen a slight slowdown in Q2. For the group, we grew 2% in
constant currencies in emerging markets; Innovative Medicines, 3%. Basically, our Innovative
Medicines, we see some weaker Middle East tender business given the macroeconomic situation
over there. But otherwise, also quite some healthy growth in Russia, Brazil, China grew 6%. And
the difference from Innovative Medicines to the group picture is basically Alcon. And there, you've
got, a prior speaker pointed to the Asia weakness that Mike has addressed. It's mainly in China
and India, where there is some disruption on distributor and hospital chains. So overall, a
slowdown of growth as we expected, but in Innovative Medicines, I would say, a bit
underrepresented due to the Middle East tender business.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Société Générale SA (France) `
Thank you very much.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
All right. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So on Alcon, you've said, again, you expect higher Alcon
margins longer-term, but this quarter you missed consensus expectations once again. So could
you define if this is the trough quarter and when you expect to see higher margins?
And secondly, on AMG 334, could you give us a feel for what you think is the market opportunity
and, importantly, the differentiation versus the three other similar products that are in the clinic
from Teva, Lilly and Alder?
And then, thirdly, on M&A outlook, your Chairman at the Meet Management Day suggested that
there would be some flex on the AA rating for the right opportunity. I was hoping you coulddefine what is the right opportunity? There has been a few questions about I-O, perhaps, we
should switch gears and think about the fact you're building back in primary care and cardiology
again in the U.S. where you've been quite weak of late. Is there any rationale trying to add primary
care and cardiology assets to the portfolio to get some better leverage from the investments
you're making there? Thanks.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Mike, on Alcon question.
A - F. Michael Ball `
Okay. With respect to Alcon, obviously, our number one objective here is to return the top-line to
growth. And to do that, as I've mentioned before, we need to make investments both in the
marketing and sales and innovation side which then necessarily impacts the bottom-line. So as
Harry mentioned before, over the longer-term, our objective is to get back to this low-20%s to
mid-20%s operating income. But in the interim, you're going to see a reduction in terms of
operating income as we work towards getting this top-line back on track.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And, Vas, on migraine.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
Yes. So I think on migraine, we're very excited by the profile that we see. I mean, a couple of
important points of differentiation. First, the AMG 334 molecule targets the receptor and versus
our competitors who are targeting the ligand. And we believe that to give us some advantages in
terms of potency.
Second, we have a subcu formulation which we've already now taken into Phase III trials as seen
with (58:57) Amgen conducting the studies. And I think this is going to be advantageous and we'll
have to see how others progress in moving to a subcu formulation.
Third, I think in terms of endpoints and how we manage the endpoints as well as the speed we're
progressing in both episodic and chronic migraine, we hope will give us a broader labeling that
we hope can then translate into better uptake.
And finally, I think we're focused on being ahead. We want to be fast to market and we're
focused right now on conducting the necessary work to ensure we can file rapidly in the U.S. and
Europe.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And, Graham, in terms of M&A, yes, we do have the willingness and flexibility to move off of AA
minus for the right opportunity. Your question was what would be the right opportunity? And I
think, first, we have said in the past and still believe that our sweet spot from an M&A standpoint
are bolt-on acquisitions that would build out the pipelines for the three – actually, now four
businesses, Pharma, Oncology, Alcon or generics. And you've seen us act on that. Nothing big
recently, but a lot of in-licensing, a lot of smaller acquisitions that have really helped the pipeline.
So anything bigger than that would have to obviously provide very clear rationales to why we did
it and it would have to be instantly understandable as a good deal for Novartis shareholders. And
I got a lot of questions about immuno-oncology, but if you look at other areas, we are operatingin – immunology is becoming much more important for the company, cardiovascular disease.
There are a lot of areas that, if the right opportunity came that would help us build out those
areas or provide some capability even beyond the strong pipeline, that it might be the right
opportunity. But right now, we're focused on bolt-ons. That's what we have been focused on, and
that's what we'll continue to be focused on. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Cowen & Co. LLC from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you. I have a few questions, but they're all brief. The PD-1 is not listed in the planned filings
on page 47. How should we think about that?
Secondly, is Novartis using fludarabine during preconditioning in CAR-T trials? If so, how does the
dose compare to that in the Juno studies?
Third, it appears that the BAF312 data has slipped from mid-2016 to the second half of 2016. And
is this the primary defense for the Gilenya patent expiration in a few years?
And then, the last question is we now have PDUFA dates for a couple of ADVAIR generic
competitors. We have no news from Sandoz. Should we assume that Sandoz is substantially
lagging in ADVAIR generics? Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Vas.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So thanks for your question, Steve. On PD-1 and our whole I-O portfolio, these are still in
translational medicine studies. We typically don't show filing dates until we get into Phase IIb
development. So first half of next year, we'll start to see the readouts of our monotherapy as well
as combination, IO-IO combinations. And at that point in time, I think we'll have a better sense of
how our I-O portfolio will be evolving from a filing standpoint.
Now, on your second question on fludarabine pre-conditioning, we do use fludarabine pre-
conditioning. When we've looked at and, obviously, depending on the study, we've used a range
of doses. But when we look across our experience right now, we don't see the issues.
I think it's important to note that CAR-Ts do vary and that we have a different CAR-T construct
than some of the competitors. We have of course are in close contact with the agency and
continue to work through the issues. But as of right now, there is no impact on our clinical
programs.
Now, in terms of BAF312, we originally had planned to lock the database in Q2. We will lock the
database in Q3. This is primarily because of our wanting to assure that we had solid data, given
the length of the study. And we had just some quality issues we wanted to resolve. But there is
no – nothing else to read about – read through about on BAF312.
And when we look at the Gilenya expiry, I mean, we believe that with ofatumumab, we'll have a
very strong launch, well ahead of the EU patent expiry. And when we look at, in the U.S. market,
yes, we're going to have to manage through for a period. But I think, between BAF andofatumumab coming, we believe, given the strong profile that we'll have with these products that
we can manage through.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Richard, on generic ADVAIR?
A - Richard Francis `
Yeah. Thank you for the questions. So we're progressing well with our generic ADVAIR program
and have been working closely with the FDA to make sure that when we submit our dossier, it's a
good dossier. I think what I would say is, these difficult filings and difficult development programs
is not necessarily first in, first out. And, I think, what we focus on is making sure our dossier is a
very good one and an acceptable one for the FDA. Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Vincent Meunier, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hello. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one is on LEE. Can you please explain the
rationale, if any, which will favor the intermittent dosing versus the continuous dosing? We know
that abemaciclib has a continuous dosing. Is there anything here that will be differentiating for one
of the different drugs?
Second question on the biosimilar of Neulasta and the complete response letter. Can you please
give us more details and also, what will be the length of the delay?
And, lastly, on Entresto, thank you for added confirmation of the $200 million this year for the
sales, but can you talk about the profitability of the products thinking about 2017 or 2018? Is it fair
to assume the profitability of the products will not come before 2018? Or do you think it will be
earlier?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Vas.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So for LoE it's important to note that these drugs have different profiles in terms of how they hit
the CDK4 and the CDK6 receptors. So Lilly's compound is much stronger on the CDK4 receptor
that leads to less neutropenia and less hematological side effects but higher incidences of
diarrhea. And we'll have to see how in the Phase III study that plays out. That allows them to avoid
the intermittent dosing because they avoid the neutropenia effect but it does mean there are
other side effect issues that we'll have to bear out in the studies.
When you look at our drug as well as Ibrance, we have CDK6 more potently and so the profile is
going to change. I think with all of these drugs, we're going to need to see the full Phase IIINow, with respect to the complete response letter on Neulasta. I mean we've been working
closely with the FDA for many years on this program. We received the complete response letter
at the end of June. We're working through the issue with FDA. I think as all of you know until we
submit a data package, it's difficult to say how they'll classify the response and the overall
timeline. But we will keep you informed as we work through this matter with the FDA.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And Paul, on the Entresto profitability.
A - Paul Hudson `
So I think we don't comment on the individual product level profitability. I think it's fair to say we
are investing for growth. When you're investing for growth over a long period of time in what is
really a primary care marketplace, it'll be substantial and we're in it for the long-term.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Goldman Sachs International from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Goldman Sachs International `
Good afternoon, and thank you for taking my questions. I've got three, please. First, just following
up on the complete response letter for pegfilgrastim. Can you just help us think? Is it a
manufacturing issue? Is it a clinical data issue or is it a labeling issue?
Secondly, as it relates to CTL019, Vas, did I hear you say that DLBCL filing will happen in 2018, or
do you still expect that to happen in 2017?
And then lastly, all from a respiratory perspective, given kind of the evolving landscape, do you
think you have enough assets in there or do you think that again is an area where you are likely to
look at bolt-on opportunities? Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Vas?
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So as stated with the complete response letter, with these programs, we're continuing to work
with the agency. These are obviously complex filings where we have different elements we need
to work through. So I don't think we're ready to discuss the details of the response because we
still need to work through with the agency how best to resolve their concerns. But as I've stated,
we'll keep you updated as we work through the issue.
Now, with respect to CTL019 and DLBCL, I misspoke. We continue to be on track towards our
planned filing in 2017. And I think I'll hand it back to Joe for the next.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And Paul, on respiratory, the scale question.A - Paul Hudson `
So I think we have some exciting things in our hands at the FLAME data, which theoretically could
be game changing, again, for the standards of care in COPD. We have the triple in asthma, also
can be very exciting. And then we have some small molecules for the ramp. Too early for me to
say whether I think we have enough but, Vas, maybe you want to comment.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
Hey, when we look at severe asthma, we think there is going to be increasingly the opportunity to
segment these patients as you've seen with the anti-L5 approval. And you've seen the
eosinophilic cutoff at the FDA gave in the labeling or the lack of eosinophilic cutoffs that the FDA
gave in the labeling. So we think there is a substantial opportunity.
I mean, our strategy here is we have Xolair as the preeminent drug for atopic asthma in Th2 high
patients. We have QVM, which is our triple, that's progressing now in clinical trials. And we believe
we can be first to market with the triple in asthma and give these patients another strong option.
And then, finally, QAW, our CRTh2 antagonist which is completing both of its Phase III trials, which
will give us another oral option which we hope to position ahead of in biologics because when
you take that portfolio together as well as additional molecules, we have earlier-stage NIBR. I
think we have an attractive res portfolio.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. I think we have time for one more question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC from Leerink. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thanks very much for the questions. So sorry for the feedback. Just a couple of quick questions
here. As you guys look at your opportunity in immuno-oncology, there were some interesting
data on PD-1 plus MEK inhibitor. You guys have obviously a PD-1 that's in early development. But
what do you see in terms of the opportunity to move forward your MEK inhibitor in combination,
specifically with the PD-1? Is that something that you would seek to accelerate?
Separate question and, again, my last question here is, really, as we look at the Alcon story on a
go-forward basis, should we really be thinking about the investment here as a significant
reduction in operating income in relative near-term to really drive top-line growth and are we still
looking at the same timeframe of a second half of this year for top-line growth acceleration?
Thanks.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Starting with Vas on the I-O opportunities?
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So with PD-1 we continue to evaluate a range of different options whether it's in IO-IO
combination or in combination with our targeted therapies. We've certainly seen the potential of
PD-1 with MEK and we are evaluating that. But, I think, the key is going to be for us to prioritizeamongst all of these opportunities to find the ones where, we think, we can have a sustainably
differentiated position. And, as I said, that's something we're really focused on doing as we get
the readouts towards the end of this year and early next year.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And Mike on Alcon?
A - F. Michael Ball `
Yeah. With respect to the investments to drive the growth, as I mentioned previously, that's
obviously impacting the operating income line. As I look to the end of the year, we are taking the
right actions now in terms of investments and innovation, business development, et cetera, to
ensure that this business has a sustained growth profile. In terms of the timing, that's always
tough to predict. But my best guess right now is Q4, we get back to a growth profile headed into
2017.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And, Seamus, the way that we're thinking about margins also is, right now, the priority is to get
the business turned. So you're seeing pretty good margin suppression, right? But if you look at
these businesses and you benchmark – the device businesses like this and Alcon has got the
advantage that they've got very, very strong shares in many segments. They deliver mid-20%s of
core operating income margin, okay?
So there is no reason why we shouldn't be at that level at some point. That's not the priority
today. So today, the priority is to spend, to get thing turned, to fix some of the customer issues
on the business and then, the margin is going to follow. So that's the way we think about the
margin.
Okay. I want to thank everybody for tuning in and we look forward giving you an update at Q3.
Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you for joining today's conference call. You may now replace the handsets.