Q3 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Jasmine, your Chorus Call operator.
Welcome and thank you for joining SAP's Third Quarter Results 2016 Conference Call. Throughout
today's recorded presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. The presentation will
be followed by a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Yeah. Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the third quarter 2016. I'm joined by
our CEO, Bill McDermott; and `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO, who will both make opening remarks on the
call today. Also joining us for Q&A are board members, `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member, who runs Global Customer
Operations; `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation, who leads Product Innovation; and `Steve Singh, Executive Board Member at SAP, President Business Networks and Applications, Head of SAP Business
Networks and Applications.
Before we get started, as usual, I would like to say a few words about forward-looking
statements. Any statements made during this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking
statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as
anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict, should, outlook
and will, and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify such forward-
looking statements.
SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial
results are discussed more fully in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,the SEC, including SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2015 filed with the SEC on March 29,
2016.
Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of their dates.
I'd like to note that we would like to welcome you back to our annual Capital Markets Day again in
New York City on February 9, 2017. Invitations for this event will be sent out shortly.
And finally, please keep in mind that unless otherwise noted, all financial numbers referred to on
this conference call are non-IFRS, and growth rates are non-IFRS at constant currency unless
otherwise noted.
With that, I would like to turn the call over to our CEO, Bill McDermott.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Stefan, and hello, everyone. Today, SAP is reporting very strong Q3 results
and we are raising our outlook for the full year. We delivered solid top line growth in the quarter.
In the cloud, we were up 29% in Q3 and up 32% year-to-date. In software license revenue, a solid
2% increase. In cloud and software, we were up 9% in Q3 and 8% year-to-date. All metrics are
tracking to the upper end of the outlook we set at the beginning of the year.
We also delivered a solid bottom line performance. Non-IFRS operating profit was up 1% and this
is impressive when you consider the comparison against our 15% growth in Q3 of 2015. On a
year-to-date basis, operating profit is up 5%, also tracking to the upper end of our initial full-year
outlook.
Also, consider the following. We hired 2,500 people in Q3, which was our biggest hiring quarter
this year. We made investments in co-innovation with strategic replicable customers to drive
sustainable growth. And on the IFRS operating profit side, our rising share price caused a nearly
€300-million effect for employee stock-based compensation. I like to think of this as the happy
cost of doing business. And on a year-to-date basis, IFRS profit is up 25%.
The bottom line is this. We're growing in every region of the world. Our growth drivers are
performing on all cylinders. Our pipeline is strong for the fourth quarter. And all of these factors
led us to confidently raise our full-year outlook for both the top and bottom line.
Allow me, please, to give you some additional color on the momentum of SAP. Our digital core
S/4HANA is amazing. We see continued strong momentum with more than 4,100 S/4HANA
customers. This is up 400 customers in the quarter, of which more than 40% were net new to
SAP.
Since announcing S/4HANA last year, more than 10% of our ERP customer base has already
signed on. And this represents the fastest adoption of any SAP solution at scale in our company's
history.
Our value assurance program is resonating very well. It delivers every customer a clear migration
roadmap and helps them realize the full potential of S/4HANA. All global service partners,
including Accenture, Capgemini, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, Fujitsu, HP Enterprise, IBM, Infosys,
itelligence, PwC, and Wipro have embraced the SAP value assurance approach, are trained,
certified, and rolling out big-time opportunities for our company. Together, with SAP's Digital
Business Services, the SAP partner ecosystem is committed to making every S/4 implementation
very successful.In Q3, companies of all sizes like ChemChina, Shanghai X.P.T. Technology and Allgeier IT Solutions
chose S/4HANA to be the backbone of their digital strategy. Swiss Re has gone live with S/4HANA
in the quarter as well. Significantly, S/4 is also catalyzing broad customer adoption of our entire
innovation portfolio.
Now for the cloud total workforce management. First, Human Capital Management with SAP
SuccessFactors. SAP is the only company that delivers total workforce management solutions
across permanent and contingent labor with SuccessFactors and Fieldglass. Our solutions are
now localized for 79 countries in 42 languages, and we are rapidly infusing intelligence like
machine learning to rude out all bias in the workplace while at the same time promoting diversity
and inclusion. We now have more than 1,350 Employee Central customers and we're on a roll.
PepsiCo, as one example, is one of SAP's largest customers. They are live on Employee Central
now across 78 countries with over 159,000 employees. The United States and Canada are
expected to go live in early 2017, which will bring the total to over 250,000 employees on
Employee Central. That's right, we know it scales.
Cintas Corporation selected SAP SuccessFactors over Workday. They expect a much higher level
of employee service to significantly drive self-service so they can push down cost. Cintas will also
be available to make strategic decisions in real-time, which will give them a live business
advantage. This ability is unmatched in the industry.
I'm also very pleased to announce that Microsoft has selected SAP over competition and
SuccessFactors is the solution of choice because Employee Central did more for them on a
global scale than any other company could. Under Satya Nadella's strong leadership, Microsoft
expects to deliver an enhanced employee experience consistent with their cloud and mobile first
philosophy. They will better attract and retain talent, foster higher employee engagement and
drive improved business outcomes. This is only the latest step in our signature global partnership
with Microsoft. As you heard at SAPPHIRE, SAP and Microsoft are collaborating more closely than
ever on HANA, Azure, Microsoft Office and SAP Cloud Applications. We're really proud of our
growing partnership with Microsoft.
Industry analysts are now validating SAP Cloud Applications in this highly competitive human
capital management market. Gartner's own words speak for themselves. The results of Gartner's
month-long evaluation found SAP SuccessFactors with the highest rankings in cloud HCM for core
HR and talent management for global organizations with more than 5,000 workers.
So, if you move now to SAP Fieldglass, we have demand for our best-in-class flexible labor
solutions ever increasing. With now over 2.8 million workers, we placed them in over 130
countries in the past 12 months alone. CPFL Energia chose Fieldglass to globally manage their
external workforce.
Let's talk cloud and customer engagement and commerce. Moving to the front office, SAP is the
only company that can connect a demand and supply chain end-to-end across any channel, any
device, and any industry. SAP's Hybris solution serves both B2C and B2B across a wide range of
industries, including retail, telco, financial services, public sector, and manufacturing. Customers
like Tata Chemicals, SWISSRAIL, and others have recognized this distinct advantage. Our SAP
Hybris and customer engagement solution saw high double-digit year-over-year customer growth
in the third quarter.
Now to our cloud and business networks. Moving to business networks, SAP's network businesses
are leading their respective markets by a very, very large margin. Ariba continues to scale as theannually. Leading global companies like Shell have selected Ariba. Concur helps more than 44
million end users effortlessly process travel and expenses. Philip Morris recently chose Concur.
On the platform side, let's talk about the HANA Cloud Platform as a platform for innovation.
HANA Cloud Platform is at the heart of the Internet of Things. This revolution is just getting
started. The opportunity is estimated to reach €250 billion by 2020. SAP HANA Cloud Platform
connects everything, devices, sensors, and machines. SAP is making a $2-billion investment in IoT
over the next five years to meet the ever increasing demand for IoT solutions.
We're also accelerating innovation across the IoT stack with our two new tuck-in acquisitions,
Fedem and PLAT.ONE. Fedem replaces the need for physical inspection with a digital inspection.
With PLAT.ONE, we can deploy and manage complex IoT capabilities in the HANA Cloud Platform.
We will establish SAP IoT labs around the world to serve as lighthouse locations for IoT research
and incubation. Planned locations include Berlin, Johannesburg, Munich, Palo Alto, São Leopoldo
and Shanghai.
With SAP IoT technology, customers like Trenitalia and new strategic partners like Bosch are
connecting vehicles, manufacturing machinery and tools that transform asset management with
live insight from sensors.
Stara S/A, a leader in agricultural machinery, headquartered in Brazil, expanded their SAP footprint
by choosing SAP HANA Cloud Platform and our IoT solutions to grow their business. This will help
farmers monitor crop activities through sensors in their equipment in real time. They will have
better control over their operations, avoid waste and achieve a greater level of productivity.
Finally, SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud continues to offer customers a secure and fast option to
migrate their mission-critical processes to the cloud. We are the cloud company powered by
HANA.
In summary, the power of SAP is that our technology helps the world run better and improve
people's lives. We have committed our people and our products to address the biggest
economic, societal and environmental issues of our time. SAP customers are achieving great
things in areas such as chronic disease prevention, humanitarian relief, digital government and
energy efficiency. That's one reason SAP has been named the number one in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index for the software industry for the 10 year in a row.
We have incredible momentum, ladies and gentlemen, as we go into the year-end push. We're
raising our full-year outlook and this should be interpreted as a very, very clear statement that
SAP is a growth company that will continue to be the business software market leader without a
doubt.
Finally, as always, I would like to recognize SAP's nearly 83,000 employees and their continuing
dedication to our customers.
Now, I'm very happy to turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, my friend, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer. Luka,
over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks very much, Bill. Hello, everybody from my side as well. Bill just talked about how our
employees and our technology help the world run better and improve people's lives. And as
SAP's proud sponsor for sustainability, I absolutely share his enthusiasm that the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index has awarded us the top spot for a decade running now, and clearly recognizesIn my role as the CFO, I'm convinced that running a company with an intergraded approach
enables us to make better decisions as we simply have deeper insights on how to drive business
outcomes. As a knowledge company, it is critical for us to steer the company with non-financial
KPIs like employee engagement and others. The management team at SAP is committed to
integrated thinking, which makes SAP at the end stronger and more resilient. Our holistic
approach is fundamental to achieving our goals and realizing our vision.
Now, before going into a more detailed discussion of our financial results, it's worth for me
repeating that year-to-date we are tracking to the upper end of all outlook metrics set at the
beginning of the year, as Bill alluded to already.
One of those key revenue metrics is cloud. Cloud has become a major part of our business and
already accounts for almost 15% of our total revenue today. Our revenue growth rates in cloud
have been around 30% or more for almost four years now, growing 32% year-to-date. With this,
we are currently growing faster than the CAGR needed to reach our 2020 ambitions.
Looking at new cloud bookings, which fuel our future committed cloud revenue growth, they are
also in line with our underlying assumptions for our midterm growth ambitions, and increased this
quarter by 24%. This is a strong result considering that last year, Concur's fiscal year still ended on
September the 30.
Going forward, we see a very sound pipeline for Q4 and we actually expect an accelerating
bookings performance in our cloud business as well. With our cloud backlog and bookings
performance on top of our existing cloud revenue base, we are on track to deliver on our
midterm growth ambitions in the cloud.
We are achieving these very consistent results in our fast-growth cloud business, while our
industry-leading software license business continues to grow. In fact, software revenue grew 2%
in Q3, fully in line with our year-to-date performance. This is especially notable when taking into
account a tough year-over-year comparison. You may recall, in Q3 2015, we reported 4% growth
in software licenses.
Now, the stability of our cloud and software business also depend heavily on our maintenance
business, which continues to renew at a very, very high rate. This business shows an ever-healthy
growth rate and will remain highly predictable going forward.
We reported 6% growth in support revenue for Q3, as well as for the first nine months. As a
result, the share of our more predictable revenue was 65%, so almost two-thirds of our total
revenue for the first nine months, which is up 2 percentage points year-over-year, and reaching
€10 billion year-to-date. This is another indicator of our ever expanding more predictable
business model as we aim to deliver on our 2020 ambitions. This, at the same time, gives us far
more stability in a volatile fast-moving world.
To summarize, both of these key growth drivers, our cloud and core business in combination
resulted in strong growth of 9% in cloud and software revenue in Q3.
Now, let me spend a few words on the regional results. We had a very strong performance in
EMEA, with an increase in cloud and software revenue of 8%. Cloud subscriptions and support
revenue grew 38% in the quarter. In EMEA, we had double-digit software revenue growth in
Germany, France, UK, and South Africa.
In the Americas region, we grew cloud and software revenue by 9%, and cloud subscriptions and
support revenue by 24%. In Latin America, despite continued macroeconomic headwinds, SAPhad very solid double-digit software revenue growth in both Brazil as well as Mexico.
In the APJ region, cloud and software revenue was up 8% with cloud subscriptions and support
revenue growing by 46%. In APJ, we had double-digit software revenue growth in Japan,
Malaysia, and Singapore, as well as solid growth in SAP's Greater China region.
Now, let me come to the bottom line. Before I'll talk about operating profit, I would like to provide
some more details about the gross margin development for the quarter on a reported basis. For
the third quarter, we saw a decrease of 3.9 percentage points year-over-year resulting in a cloud
subscriptions gross margin of 64.9%. The primary reason for this decrease can be explained by
revenue mix shift effects.
If you look at our cloud margin in more detail, you will see that our Business Network cloud
segment margin further increased sequentially, but decreased year-over-year to 76.8%. The
Applications, Technology, and Services, or in short, ATS cloud segment margin was stable
quarter-over-quarter but declined to 51.4% year-over-year. This was caused by a mix shift effect
within the ATS segment given the accelerated growth and consequently higher share of our
private cloud business which nevertheless, broke even in the third quarter as expected. And we
definitely continue to expect further improvement in the gross margins in the HANA Enterprise
Cloud also going forward.
There is an additional mix shift effect on the overall cloud margin since the ATS segment now has
a higher share of our total cloud business which impacted the cloud margin as well. In addition for
our entire cloud operations, we are still investing heavily in personnel and are also incurring costs
to converge our acquired cloud applications onto SAP HANA, which will provide massive benefits
for customers.
Overall, we continue to expect the full year 2016 cloud gross margin to land at around the same
level as in 2015.
Our cloud and software gross margin was sequentially nearly stable at 83.5% and down 60 basis
points year-over-year. The usual mix shift effect we see from the cloud business on our cloud and
software gross margin was the primary reason for this decline.
Our services gross margin was down by 2.9 percentage points year-over-year to 20.5%.
However, our services margin is trending up sequentially in 2016. We had a sequential
improvement in the services margin of 2.6 percentage points, which comes off a further 4
percentage point sequential increase that we had in the second quarter. And we expect this
trend to continue as we enter into the New Year. Why? Well, because this development needs to
be seen in the light of significant further investments, around $50 million, that we took into core
innovation projects for strategic industry customers in Q3. We expect these projects to be
finished by the end of Q1 next year, allowing for further improvements in 2017.
Our underlying operational performance in the services business has already significantly
improved, which you can also see by the fact that services revenue was up 7% in Q3.
Finally, our overall gross margin was stable compared to the previous quarter at 72.7% and down
90 basis points year-over-year.
Now, let me come to our operating profit development. We saw continued operating profit
expansion in the third quarter, sequentially as well as year-over-year, which is on top of an
exceptionally strong operating profit performance in the previous year, as Bill already mentioned.As expected, this quarter, the growth rate has come down since the benefits from the company-
wide transformation program had annualized at half year. In addition, we continued our
investments in innovation and high growth areas, while expanding our workforce in parallel by
more than 2,400 FTEs in the third quarter. Taking all of this into account, we had a strong quarter
in terms of operating profit performance, which grew by 1%.
As we continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness in each and every business, our
operating profit will continue its growth trajectory towards our 2020 ambitions. For the first nine
months, we are right where we anticipated we would be, growing our operating profit by 5%,
representing a growth rate towards the high end of our guidance range communicated at the
beginning of the year.
Before I talk about cash flow and liquidity, I would also like to make a few comments on our IFRS
results. Our IFRS operating profit, as you will have noted, was impacted by an increase in our
share-based compensation expenses, which is mainly due to the strong development of our
share price quarter-over-quarter. This increase overcompensated the further decrease in
restructuring expenses year-over-year that we saw in Q3.
Consequently, our IFRS operating profit declined by 9% to €1.1 billion. Year-to-date, however, our
IFRS operating profit is up 25%. The IFRS tax rate in the third quarter was 28.4%, up from 27.1% in
the prior-year period. The non-IFRS tax rate in the third quarter was 29.7%, up from 28% in the
prior-year period. As expected, our tax rate increased this quarter, which reflects the change we
made to our tax outlook for the full year when we announced our second quarter 2016 results.
IFRS earnings per share decreased by 19% to €0.61 per share, and non-IFRS earnings per share
decreased by 7% to €0.91 per share. The main reason for the decline on an IFRS basis was, again,
the higher share-based compensation expenses. In addition, both IFRS and non-IFRS earnings per
share were impacted by lower non-operating and financial income, mainly driven by a minority
investment that we sold off in Q3 of 2015. Year-to-date, our IFRS earnings per share were up 19%.
Now, let me come to cash flow and liquidity, which was clearly a bright spot in this quarter. In the
third quarter, our operating cash flow rose significantly, up 52% compared to the prior-year
period. This led to strong operating cash flow for the first nine months of €3.6 billion, or up 12%
year-over-year. This result was primarily due to our strong top-line performance in the first nine
months with an increase in total revenue of 8% and higher profit, as well as due to the absence
of restructuring-related cash outflows. We expect this trend to absolutely continue in Q4.
At the end of the third quarter, we improved our net liquidity by almost €2 billion compared to the
end of 2015, which is an improvement of 33%. At the end of the third quarter, we had a net debt
of €3.7 billion. We remain committed to quickly further deleverage and expect to have completely
repaid the term loan related to the Concur acquisition by the end of the year.
Now, let me move on to our outlook. As Bill has said, as a result of our strong execution year-to-
date and our robust pipeline, we are raising our outlook for the full year. We now expect full year
2016 non-IFRS cloud subscription and support revenue to be in a range of between €3 billion to
€3.05 billion at constant currencies, full year 2016 non-IFRS cloud and software revenue to
increase by between 6.5% to 8.5% at constant currencies, and full year 2016 non-IFRS operating
profit to be in a range of €6.5 billion to €6.7 billion at constant currencies.
We have also updated our expectations for the currency impact on reported growth rates in
2016. For details on this, please see our quarterly statement published earlier today.So, let me summarize. In closing, our position as a leading innovator helps our customers to
succeed with their digital transformation. Be it the most modern business suite S/4HANA, our
platform and cloud offerings, or in new markets like IoT or machine learning, we help customers
meet the challenges of today's marketplace. SAP has never been clearer about its strategy,
underscored by our vision to help the world run better and improve people's lives.
Looking at our own business transformation, I'm really pleased to see that we are continuously
progressing in all dimensions in a market environment that is more dynamic than ever. We are
delivering on our promises while increasing diversification, predictability and rapidly building on
our already solid business foundation.
We released really strong third quarter results today, showing continued momentum and strong
execution. Even after making some strategic short-term investments in the third quarter and
going up against a very strong comparison, we managed to expand our non-IFRS operating
profit. With our robust pipeline and our unparalleled focus, we are very confident that we will
deliver yet another strong fourth quarter.
More importantly, our long-term growth drivers are rock solid. Year-to-date, we are tracking to
the upper end of all outlook metrics set at the beginning of the year. For that reason, we raised
our outlook as we go with full confidence into our largest quarter of the year.
Thank you very much and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Yeah. Thank you. Operator, you can now start the Q&A session.
Q&A
Operator
The first question comes from the line of Michael Briest with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Great. Thank you and congratulations on the quarter. In terms of the cloud, there was
announcement a couple of days ago about SuccessFactors moving onto Azure or being available
on Azure. Can you talk about your underlying cloud strategy there? What they're doing? What
you're doing?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
And CapEx is quite a lot this year, partly related to those cloud investments. Is that something
that maybe reduces the level of CapEx we should expect in Q4 and next year? And then
secondly, just on the number of S/4 customers that are live, could you give an update there? And
maybe how many are moving to the HANA Enterprise Cloud? And how significant HANA
Enterprise Cloud is now within the revenues? Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `Michael, I'll start us off and allow you also to get some feedback from `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member and `Steve Singh, Executive Board Member at SAP, President Business Networks and Applications.
First of all, on the Microsoft partnership, I've always said that we do stand on the shoulders of
giants. And about three-and-a-half decades ago, Bill Gates and Hasso Plattner began an amazing
partnership between Microsoft and SAP. And I'm very proud to say that Satya Nadella and myself
are continuing in that tradition, as evidenced by Satya being at SAPPHIRE with me and also in
recognizing the power of SuccessFactors to run Microsoft's people strategy, but also to take
Azure and adopt HANA, the S/4 applications and also our cloud applications for the line of
business and, of course, the Business Network. So, I think you should look at a multi-faceted
strategy here. The first piece is now unfolded, but we are going to continue with Microsoft in a
highly strategic fashion.
I'll let Rob give you an update on the S/4 and then Steve give you some more color on our cloud
strategy and what we're doing especially with Microsoft. Rob?
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Yeah. So, with S/4 right now, we have just over 350 customers live. When you look at the last
customers in S/4, what's particularly pleasing is that out of the customers that are doing projects
right now, more than 50% of them are full scope. In other words, with the 15/11 release of (31:40)
and the full ERP scope, most of these customers are now actually implementing full ERP scope for
S/4.
And as it relates to – what you'll also see is more than 80% of these projects are now done by
partners. So, this is very, very pleasing news in the S/4 environment.
A - `Steve Singh, Executive Board Member at SAP, President Business Networks and Applications `
So, I'll add a couple of things to this. Obviously, as we continue to see our cloud businesses grow,
the opportunity to leverage public cloud infrastructure to drive more scale in our gross margin is
very substantive. And so, leveraging relationships like Microsoft with Azure is a fantastic
opportunity for our company. SuccessFactors is one of many opportunities to work collaboratively
with Microsoft on Azure. We also, obviously, worked with AWS. Our recent announcement on BW
for HANA is an example of that. I think as you think about our global reach and our capacity to
serve customers in any corner of the world, the opportunity to leverage public cloud
infrastructure in other parts of the world is a massive advantage for the company.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And maybe a last point on the size of the HANA Enterprise Cloud opportunity in total. I think
this is becoming quickly a grown-up business, I would say. It was a small toddler two years ago
and we invested a lot and there were lots of doubts. However, when you take a look at today's
performance, this is actually already on a year-to-date basis, now a triple digit million business
and it continues to grow fast.
And more importantly, for me, from a CFO perspective, it increases the efficiency very quickly in
Q3 as expected. And as we predicted, the business has been breaking even on a gross margin
basis. And it continues to be on a strong role in terms of increasing the efficiency further. So, it is
of growing its strategic importance to SAP.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
And Luka, will the CapEx come down because of the relationships with public cloud companies?A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
I would say, as we grow the opportunity and as we grow the partnership, there is certainly an
opportunity for that. It will not have a massive impact for the remainder of this year. But as we
move forward, as you know, we have the expectation that we will see substantial improvements
in the gross margins across our different business models and utilizing these mega-IaaS providers
is one aspect to that equation. So, absolutely, this is part of our consideration. But you should not
see it as a short-term opportunity now for the next few months.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Thanks.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. Thank you. A couple. License revenue growth, 11% in Q4 last year, so tough year-on-year
comps but, you did say, robust pipeline and confidence to deliver yet another strong fourth
quarter. Do you think that means positive license growth in Q4 of this year?
And then, just quickly on S/4, you mentioned catalyzing a broad adoption of SAP products. Could
you give some examples of that and what kind of leverage that might be? So, is it 1.2 times ERP in
terms of revenues, 1.3 times, 1.5 times, 2 times, something like that?
And then, the last one quickly on M&A, can you talk about recent acquisitions? And your future
thinking, would they be of similar size and what types of technology are you looking for?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. This is Bill, Stacy. Thank you very much for the question. What I'll do is I'll give you a little
color on the robust nature, the pipeline and our determined forecast for Q4, as well as the M&A.
Rob can give you some further color on the forecast as Steve can as well. But here is the big
picture.
What we do is we run the company on HANA, so we have a real time, in-memory column store
data platform giving us feedback as to what's going on in every industry and every geography
and every territory in the company in real time.
And when you look at the facts, you can only come up with one conclusion that the pipeline is the
biggest it's ever been and the level of sales cycle is deciding that it would give you a growth
forecast on a year-over-year basis including in the core business. So, that's where it's at. And the
cloud is continuing its natural progress, growing fast and also giving us a balanced business
model, which gives you much more predictable revenues just as we stated in the midterm
forecast of the company. So, we're right on track. So, yeah, we're expecting very good growth in
the quarter.As it relates to the M&A activity, I announced a couple of tuck-ins that we did on the IoT in my
opening remarks. Right now, you shouldn't expect SAP to surprise you with anything large. The
reality is there isn't anything large that we see worth buying. Most of them don't make a lot of
money. We beat them hand over fist in the marketplace game set match. So, why would you buy
them.
And what we are doing is we're very proud of what Bernd is doing and the development in
innovation machine here in the company, and we are bringing out massive innovation in S/4,
including in the fourth quarter where lots of upgrades and lots of decisions will take place. For
example, we invested €50 million in Q3 on a co-innovation level with a few customers. Because
we go in to new areas like retail, we prove it with a lighthouse and then we replicate it many
times over.
So, you're dealing with a management team here that's not just thinking 90 days. We're thinking
next move. We're already thinking 2017 whilst at the same time, delivering the promise in 2016.
So, we might do some tuck-ins. We don't see any big ones on the horizon right now. And we'll
give you a further update on that in January when we give you the guidance for 2017. But the
organic execution is the story at SAP right now.
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Yeah. And in terms of the pipeline and outlook as we see it. I mean S/4 has clearly taken out
customers by storm in the sense of how they see it and the value they're getting at. With the
reference customers we have and connecting our Big Data play with HANA together with S/4, the
work we're doing in machine learning and then you connect the cloud solutions, our customers
understand the value of all of the integration between the core and the edge and the edge and
the core. And we're seeing that across all regions and all geographies. So, it's not a – it's a very,
very positive story for SAP in the complete sense. And all aspects of our portfolio are working
really well right now.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And let me maybe just add very quick – sorry, I didn't want to interrupt you. Go ahead,
please.
A - `Steve Singh, Executive Board Member at SAP, President Business Networks and Applications `
No problem. The only thing I would add on the pipeline overall for cloud is that we continue to
see a robust environment for our cloud offerings. Obviously, we're managing through a change in
Concur's fiscal year-end from September to December. But if I look at it more granular, we really
see a strong environment for Concur. I believe as demand environment continues to grow, I
mean year-over-year basis, we're seeing really strong demand for our SMB offerings as well,
including our SMB ERP offerings. So, very pleased with the demand environment and see that
continuing to be that way for years to come.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Then, I just wanted to add that you have various levels of how S/4HANA is actually reinvigorating
growth across our entire portfolio. I think Rob has described this core-to-edge, edge-to-core
concept very well. You see this reflected in the fact that our average deal size in the higher ticket
amounts is actually going up and that we see a higher relative share of revenues in this higher
ticket volumes.However, it's also important to note that with the upcoming S/4HANA release, which now delivers
all of the functionality that we have re-architected for native HANA in-memory data processing in
2015 across all of the industries just is also amplifying the opportunity that exists in S/4 itself
because we can now really, across all industries, not only move into the generic areas like finance,
but we can really move into the core business processes of our biggest oil and gas companies,
of our biggest retail companies and so on and so forth. And this, of course, also raises the
potential for S/4 itself in terms of average deal sizes.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation `
Maybe for each of the smaller tuck-in acquisitions, a word from my side, this is Bernd. Internet of
Things and digitalization of the business in general is on top of the agenda of any customer I
have spoken the last recent quarters. So, while we do not want to play a me-too game, we want
a uniquely different shape with our capabilities. We have selected these assets with a dedicated
purpose.
Let me start with LTSCALE. A clear proof point that the move to the cloud is happening and it's
happening in a direction where we have to live in future with de-central storage of data, not all
the center data that the board produces can be stored in a single data center. And we also with
Hadoop-as-a-Service de-centrally and connecting it to our core winning platform, HANA, a Big
Data solution, no other IT vendor can offer this space.
And if it comes to the capabilities of HANA itself, we have PLAT.ONE, we have now a unique
differentiator to connect to any physical asset in the world. And we said them, we are able to
model any physical product as a digital twin, and this is the way the Internet of Things in the digital
world will win going forward. So, this tuck-in acquisition create a tremendous differentiating
capability in the whole space of Internet of Things. And I think you've heard it from Bill, we have
committed to a total invest of €2 billion, and we expect massive return on that investment going
forward.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Bernd. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks very much, and congrats from me as well. Two questions. One on the public cloud version
of S4/HANA. Bill, when do you think that will become publicly available, generally available? And
then second, on the conversion of the line-of-business cloud apps to HANA. Look, I'm curious
again. When do you think that will be complete? And if we could isolate the gross margin impact
for those businesses, how material could that be? Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much, Ross. First of all, I'll just start off with the S/4 public cloud addition. We
have a whole division at the company dedicated to that, and we're going with everything SAP has
and more to make sure that that's a masterpiece of our growth story. And Rob and Bernd seems
up on that. There's a very serious executive that's running that for us. His solution is totally ready.
And with a dedication of a division of the company, you won't have any mixed-up peoplebetween whether they're going to put something in the cloud or in our customer's datacenter.
So, Rob, maybe you'll make some comments on that.
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Yeah. With Darren Roos heading up that cloud division, the S/4 Cloud division, we've actually
gone live with some customers already. We're actually really excited with the results that these
customers have shown. We have another, quite some customers that we signed up that will
actually be live before the end of the year. And then, the plan is to go launch in January at our
field kickoff. We will actually launch that S/4 Cloud division to all of SAP and then, obviously, in New
York City when we meet all of you again. We will launch the S/4 Cloud and it will be a big part of
SAP in 2017.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation `
Yeah. This is Bernd. Maybe a comment on conversion of our public cloud offerings towards HANA.
We have started where our customers gets most value out of it and this is clearly where we
process huge amount of data in the analytics space. So, consider this as done.
I would say, looking at our more than 10,000 customers, SAP is already having the biggest
datacenters on the world, running cloud applications on HANA, as we speak today. Now, your
question is when are we complete? This is a two-step approach. Number one, getting the
capabilities and unleash the massive value of HANA into these applications and not just do
importing. We have done it completely for SuccessFactors, and we are in process of migrating all
of these customers to the HANA database, expect and forecast is that we are done in fourth
quarter, so 12 months from now. We are in process of migrating as well, Ariba, Concur, Fieldglass,
it might take a couple of weeks or months longer. We will decide this based on growth rates as
we have a customer-first approach.
You asked for CapEx investment and we want to serve them, and I think the impact on the
financials I would pass over to Luka.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Absolutely. So, first of all, initially of course the migration of our customers to HANA is an
investment case for this year as well as for next year as we have to maintain for some time as we
migrate the different customers, as Bernd has explained, double infrastructure. That's why we are
not planning for substantial increases in our cloud gross margin in 2016 as well as in 2017.
There are some additional investments that we are making into converged cloud infrastructure as
well as data center consolidation that also play a role in this regard. However, then, as of 2018,
we, of course, expect that we will derive massive benefits from these migrations going forward.
As you know, we aim to achieve around about 7% increase in the cloud gross margins until 2020
with an exponential uptick in the years 2018 and going forward. And that's exactly because of
those efficiencies that we are gaining by running our own platform underneath all of our cloud
applications.
But quite frankly, it's not only about our efficiencies and our gross margin improvement where this
is baked into the 7% improvement. Much more important is that our customers are gaining
transformational capabilities through the migration, much faster analytics, for example, much
more responsive transactional processing across those different solutions. And that's what I'm
really excited about, that we can unleash the full power of this best-of-breed applications that weare having with the most modern and most robust and performant database platform that you
can find in the market today.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks very much.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Charles Brennan from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Charles A. Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Great. Thanks very much for taking my questions. I've got two, if I can. The first is just on the
balance sheet and the cash flow. Bill, there are some comments quoting you, I think, on the wires
suggesting that going into 2017, there's scope for higher dividend payments or maybe share
buybacks. Can you just outline your medium term philosophy of where you think the right balance
sheet structure should be and how you're thinking about balancing cash flows between
shareholders and M&A?
And just on the cash flows, it looks like DSOs continue to tick up by a day a quarter at the
moment. Luka, where would you like to see those metrics stabilize and where do they go from
here? Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much, Charles. Maybe I'll start off on the balance sheet and cash flow. I'm
going to actually allow Luka to give you the good news on the cash flow because I think you'd be
quite impressed with what's going on in the company's cash flow.
But on the balance sheet, let's, first of all, get clear on what I said. I said that SAP will remain an
excellent dividend payer as we have consistently done now for years and years and years. So, put
that in the win column for the shareholders.
I said that we would be very thoughtful on M&A and not surprise you with anything that didn't
make sense. We talked about the priority areas. Bernd elaborated on that.
So, we'll do things on the M&A side that make a lot of sense. One of the things you should look
at is the record that we have with M&A. All the companies that we acquired outpaced the
business case we put in front of the board when we bought them. And if you remember, there
were times when we were under serious fire if we paid too much, was it the right M&A. And now,
just about everything is paid off and SAP shareholders will benefit from those moves in
perpetuity. That's a pretty good thing.
And finally, as it relates to share buybacks, it is possible that in the second half of next year
because we are spinning off tremendous cash flow, there could be an opportunity for that. And
we'll weigh that in the balance between investing in organic, investing in strategic M&A or, in fact,
buying back shares in combination with being a good dividend payer.
The main thing is we're going to be extremely shareholder friendly. We believe that a growthactually extremely proud of this quarter is the fact that the employee base compensation related
to the SAP shares was actually €296 million strong. That reflects that our external shareholders
are benefiting and now 70%-plus of our internal employees are bought in to the internal share
program of SAP. That is an organization that's exhibiting enormous pride in this company. So, we
don't just have employees anymore, we have owners.
And Luka, I know you want to talk about the cash flow which is stunning and some other things.
Over to you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think you already stole most of my thunder. But absolutely true that we are seeing now the
fruits of our growth in the year-to-date also in the operating cash flow. We had briefly discussed
this on the last quarterly call where I told you that due to the absence of restructuring cash
outflows, we expect a much stronger cash flow in Q3 and going forward and this is exactly what is
happening now with 52% operating cash flow increase. And this will continue also in Q4 because
also in Q4, we had quite significant restructuring-related cash outflows in 2015, which we won't
have in 2016.
So, it is absolutely clear that we are about to generate excess cash. We have a strong priority on
deleveraging. We have another €1 billion of private placement that is becoming due for
repayment in the first half of 2017. In the first half of 2017, we will also pay a very nice dividend. As
you know, we have a dividend policy of paying out more than 35% of net profit. Net profit is up
significantly when you take a look at our IFRS numbers. So, chances are that the dividend will also
be up significantly.
So, those are priorities. Organic innovation is a priority. Tuck-ins, if we don't see more than tuck-
ins of the nature that we have done, obviously, we will return to the question of possible
buybacks then in the second half year. We expect to have more clarity for you on that already by
the time when we meet together at the Capital Markets Day.
On the DSO, you are right. Actually, the DSO increase is slowly coming to an end. This quarter, we
have seen a 0.4 days increase. So, it just met the rounding edge, so to say, so that you see it as a
day an increase, but it's actually 0.4 days. I expect this movement to now completely come to a
halt in Q4, latest in Q1. I would expect us to see returning to lower deals or there are multiple
measures that we are driving especially in some of our emerging markets.
As you know, we were facing difficult macroeconomic conditions where overdues have accrued,
and we are working this now down aggressively with executive sponsors for all significantly
overdue items with an aggressive debookings policy. And we believe that we will have made a
substantial progress as we enter the New Year.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC of Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Thanks very much. And I'll add my congrats on the quarter. Bill, obviously, a really strong hiring
quarter for you, all. I assume a fair number of those new hires are in customer-facing roles. I wasjust kind of curious where you might be adding strength in terms of specific verticals or on
specific products. Just trying to get a sense of where you guys feel like you might be not pushing
as hard as you could perhaps on the sales front just in terms of numbers. Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Kirk, maybe I'll just start it off. Philosophically, if you're not coding software, and you're not
selling software, we're probably not chasing you down right now. So, that's the bottom line.
We want people that are engineers, that are data scientists that really understand the systems
and have a great, great future in technology in the company, and we want great customer-facing
professionals, including young professionals from the right curriculums in schools that can actually
help us take care of the customer and move our software in the open marketplace.
We have one of the most sophisticated young training programs, I think, of any company in the
world right now. We're extremely proud of it and I'll definitely let the colleagues give you some
color on where we're really focusing the talent. It's pretty exciting and the company is getting
younger all the time, which I think is very exciting. When you walk in the halls of SAP, you feel like
you're dealing with a very young vibrant company, not a company that's been around four-and-a-
half decades. It's pretty exciting. Rob?
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Yes. So, we're actually definitely selling software. So, in order to continue that, we've actually
added resources to our line-of-business solutions, our global expansion, our channels, our
commercial sales, our inside sales organization. Pretty much the expansion is global and broadly
based. The sales university continues to attract a number of young people that we bring in to the
company every year. And we're seeing a major return on that, especially in the emerging
markets, where we're training talented folks. We actually see significant production and we've set
that up in all of our emerging markets.
So, pretty much in all the line of business applications from SuccessFactors, Hybris, Ariba, Concur
and our global expansion in the regions and that's where we enact channels as well.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And Bernd, you may want to mention what you're seeing on the engineering side.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation `
Yeah. Sure. So, innovation is basically the fuel for our future growth. So, I elaborated already on
Internet of Things, but we are as well heavily investing in new technical capabilities like machine
learning, artificial intelligence. It will be the fuel for a whole new set of new applications. You will
hear more from us in the next couple of weeks. And there is as well, capabilities in the area of
bots, so we see the human machine interaction as the future user experience.
It's not just having nice (56:52) UIs, it's enabling our customers that there is a natural human being
machine interaction which will be our future. So, in these areas, we are more or less
strengthening across the entire portfolio.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Good. Thank you.Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Thanks very much.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. We have time for two more questions, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Gerardus Vos with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `James A. Goodman, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Well, good afternoon, and thank you for taking the questions. It's actually James Goodman on
Gerardus' line. If I look at the movement in deferred, the cloud billings growth was very strong
this quarter ahead, again, of both the bookings and the revenue growth on cloud.
So, aside from the Concur impacts that you've mentioned, is there anything else we should
consider here in terms of the way those metrics relate to one another? And is it feasible that the
new cloud bookings measure could actually move ahead of both revenue and billings growth
over the coming quarters?
And then, the other question I had was just coming back to the temporary investment that you've
mentioned a couple of times during the quarter. Could you provide perhaps a little bit more
context there, the nature of those investments? Are they related to S/4HANA extensions? Or is
this new product initiatives or we're not quite sure. And when you said this will be done by the
first quarter 2017, is the magnitude of investment similar over the coming two quarters? Thank
you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Maybe I can answer the first question. So, first of all, on the calculated billings performance
versus new cloud bookings performance, yes, there can always be variations between the two.
And it's possible, definitely, that new cloud bookings could exceed the calculated billings because
it's just simply a different methodology. One is an order entry methodology, and one is a
methodology that is calculated, as you know, of course, based on revenue changes and changes
in deferred movements. So, the reason for the difference between the two is definitely for the
most part in this quarter the Concur effect.
We absolutely expect Concur to have a blowout Q4 because that was last year not their Q4,
which they had in Q3 and hence the bookings performance in Q3 was a little bit lower. But as we
know how our deferred revenue composition looks like, how our backlog looks like, that of course
makes us very, very confident around the cloud revenue figure. And again, on the bookings side, I
expect a very strong Q4 because of a broad-based performance that I see ticking up especially
also in Concur.
On the temporary investments, maybe I'll answer this quickly as well. That's actually industry
specific innovation that we are driving, so we are working with customers, for example, in the
retail space to completely redefine the way how they can get – keep track of their customers and
can get customer preferences, customer buying behavior, customer data integrated into a one
holistic record, the customer get more intimate with customer, interactions and track them across
all of the channels of interaction with their customers.Similarly in the insurance space, we are completely redefining with some very, very forward-
looking customers the way how front office operations in the core insurance space can look like
based on the HANA platform that we have. This type of development not really directly related to
S/4, but industry specific co-innovation with leaders in the space.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And that entrepreneurial spirit is alive and well in SAP; and in terms of how you should expect that
playing out in the future quarters, because that was part of your question, I would say the ones
that we've made for 2016, we've made for 2016. So, that's why we're raising forecast. And
incidentally, what we're always trying to do now is look into the windshield, not just the rearview
mirror, in terms of the next move.
And I think what you will see is some of those small investments instead of complex M&As
leading to great replication and faster time to value across industries. Luka talked about retail and
insurance. Those were the ones that impacted this quarter, but we're certainly not limited to that.
We're really focused on the customer and making sure they're live, they're happy, and we can
replicate it many times over.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Now we have time for the final question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of John King of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go
ahead.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank Of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my questions. I've got two, I think, focused more on the
kind of 2017 outlook. Firstly, going back to your comments on the services margin, Luka, a good
improvement there to 20%. I guess, we'd been thinking about more in a mid-teens rate looking
backwards. So, what's the right run rate as we think about 2017 for the services gross margin and I
notice obviously you've left your guidance profit in profit for next year unchanged. So, just
wondering if there's any – is that sustainable or not or is there another offset to think about.
The second question was, again, more of a bigger picture about the cloud transition. I guess, a
couple of years ago, you reset the expectations somewhat about license growth with the
likelihood that over time you'd see some of that get cannibalized in the core and shift towards in
cloud subscription. Where do you think we are really on that, if you revisit those assumptions now,
are you on track? It feels like, at the moment, most clients are still taking their ERP and wanting to
own the software and buying licenses. So, in that context, do you think it's possible we see some
further resilience in license into next year? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, first of all, on the services, and you are absolutely correct, we have improved the
underlying business performance in services quite nicely in the last six months, which was actually
already becoming visible in Q2, and we have further progress now. So, I think, I have a strong
confidence that the overall services margin, for next year, should not, on average, fall below the
level that we have achieved right now. So, especially, once the investment projects that I've been
talking about are fully delivered and this will be the case in Q1, as I said, 2017, then we shoulddefinitely see that these margins are becoming sustainable, again, at the level that we have
achieved right now.
Well, first of all, on the outlook for 2017, we have just raised the outlook for 2016 and we will
attempt to 2017 when we output our numbers for Q4. So, I think, there, you need to hang in a
little bit with us. But you can see, from our confidence in raising the 2016 outlook, that there is,
obviously, nothing fundamentally wrong with the company. And, hence, we also believe strongly
that our midterm outlook continues to be sound.
In terms of the trajectory that we are on for licenses, you're right. When we started our midterm
guidance framework in early 2015, we were not entirely sure. We had a strong belief that S/4
could become a game-changer for us across the entire spectrum of our portfolio, both cloud as
well as on-premise. But we were not sure about the uptick. Now, we know that it's a tremendous
innovation that clearly has reinvigorated growth in our on-premise business to a greater extent
than we would have expected for the first two years, which is great news.
As we move into the future as Rob has also said, we plan in the future to also deliver S/4 to the
market in the public cloud version. We see a great prospect for this solution in the market. There
will be, of course, still a case and a strong case for S/4 in large scale deployments also on-
premise. But keep that in mind. And hence, we are very confident around S/4 to spur growth in
both the cloud as well as in on-premise core licenses. At the moment, I feel very comfortable with
the midterm outlook that we have and we will have further update for you when we meet in
January and at the Capital Markets Day in February.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And, John, to build on what Luka's saying – so to build on what Luka's saying, one of the things
you may want to think about is the order entry in the company for the software and the cloud. So,
substantially year-over-year increases in 2016, you'll see substantial increases in 2017. What I think
is kind of interesting about SAP – and history is a relative guide for the future. When you look at
the competition down in double digits in their core and propping up on concrete and servers as a
cloud model versus software, we kind of like the idea that our core is solid, our cloud is solid,
SMB, Business Network and an ever-expanding ecosystem that also wants our applications in
their clouds.
And when you're a great brand and you're willing to meet our high standards for security and
reference architecture, we have no quarrel with expanding our footprint than our channel capacity
to sell more software. So, all the lines are in the water for continued sustained software and cloud
growth. And if history is any predictor of SAP, because of our substantial lead with S4/HANA and
the 21st Century ERP, we'll do a lot better than the other ones.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Well, thank you very much, Bill. This concludes our Q3 earnings call for today and we look forward
to meeting you, again, in January and later in our Capital Markets Day in New York City on
February 9. Thank you for joining and good-bye.