Q3 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the fiscal year 2015 third
quarter. I am `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation; and Ms. Saito, our interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Ms. Saito will take over the rest of the
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask your
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statement is included on page two of
today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page three. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the third quarter of the fiscal year ending March 2016.
Let me start with slide five. Compared to the same period of the previous fiscal year,
consolidated vehicle sales for the third quarter of the current fiscal year decreased by 48,000
units to 2,215,000 units; although sales in North America grew and the market remained solid.
Sales in Africa, Central and South America and the Middle East fell as the consequences of lower
oil prices and weaker local currencies. Sales in Asia also fell due to sluggish markets and
intensified competition.As shown on the right-hand side of slide five, our consolidated vehicle sales for the nine months
from April 2015 to December 2015 decreased by 247,000 units to 6,493,000 units. For your
information, total retail vehicle sales for the third quarter increased by 37,000 units year-on-year,
as indicated in the bottom of the slide.
Please look at slide six. Consolidated financial results for the third quarter of the current fiscal
year were net revenues of ¥7.3398 trillion; operating income of ¥722.2 billion; pre-tax income of
¥777.7 billion; and net income of ¥627.9 billion.
Now, I'd like to hand the rest of today's presentation to Ms. Saito, our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Next, using slide seven, I would like to highlight the factors behind the decrease by ¥40.6 billion in
the third quarter operating income year-on-year. Despite the positive factors, such as progress in
cost reduction efforts in each region, operating income was down due to fewer vehicle sales and
an increase in R&D and other expenses.
Please turn to slide eight, consolidated financial results for the nine months from April 2015 to
December 2015 were: net revenues of ¥21,431.3 billion; operating income of ¥2,305.6 billion;
pre-tax income of ¥2,452.9 billion; and net income of ¥1,886.0 billion. For your information, slide
nine summarizes the major factors which impacted operating income for the nine months year-
on-year.
Next, I would like to discuss operating income for each region, focusing mainly on the third
quarter performance indicated on the left-hand side of each of the next five slides. Page 10 is
Japan. Although, new models such Sienta, Alphard and Vellfire drove sales, overall vehicle sales
for the third quarter decreased by 5,000 units year-on-year to 493,000 units as the mini-vehicle
market continued to be sluggish. Operating income decreased by ¥32 billion to ¥392.7 billion,
mainly as a result of increased R&D and depreciation expenses in spite of progressing cost
reduction efforts.
We are pleased to inform you that orders for the new Prius reached nearly 100,000 units, so
roughly eight times as many as its planned monthly sales, almost within a month after its launch.
Please turn to slide 11. In North America, the third quarter vehicle sales grew by 16,000 units to
728,000 units year-on-year, driven by SUVs such as RAV4, Lexus NX and the 4Runner in particular.
Operating income, excluding valuation gains and losses from interest rate swaps, et cetera, was
¥141.8 billion, down ¥26.1 billion compared to the third quarter of the previous fiscal year. This was
mainly due to increased sales expenses, which exceeded the positive factors, including cost
reduction efforts.
On slide 12 is Europe. Vehicle sales for the third quarter decreased by 10,000 units to 210,000
units. This was mainly due to decreased sales in Russia, where the market remained depressed
despite increased sales especially in Western Europe, such as France, where the Auris and the
Yaris performed strongly. Operating income was ¥20.5 billion, down ¥12.7 billion year-on-year,
primarily due to the effects of marketing activities.
Please turn to slide 13. In Asia, overall vehicle sales for the third quarter were down 12,000 units
year-on-year to 362,000 units. Our sales dropped in Indonesia where the market remained
sluggish; and in Thailand, where competition became tougher. Nevertheless, operating income
reached ¥134.8 billion, up ¥27.1 billion year-on-year as improved export profitability due to thedepreciation of the local currencies and progress in cost reduction efforts more than offset the
negative impact of the decline in vehicle sales.
In Asia, following the renewal of the IMV series light trucks in Thailand, our manufacturing plants in
Indonesia started producing the new Innova in November and the new Fortuner in January. Going
forward, we will maintain and enhance the efficiency of global production and supply of the IMV
series light trucks while further improving their cost competitiveness.
Please turn to slide 14. In other regions, the third quarter vehicle sales increased in Oceania driven
by the Camry for instance, but decreased in Africa, Central and South America and the Middle
East year-on-year. As a result, overall vehicle sales fell by 37,000 units to 422,000 units
compared to the same period of previous fiscal year. Operating income was ¥25 billion, down
¥4.3 billion year-on-year, mainly due to fewer vehicle sales despite cost reduction efforts.
Now please turn to slide 15 for financial services. Operating income, excluding swap valuation
gains and losses for the third quarter remained in line with the same period as the previous fiscal
year at ¥83.2 billion. This was mainly due to growth in lending balance, which offset an increase in
cost related to loan losses and residual value losses.
Please turn to slide 16. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for third quarter increased by
¥20.9 billion year-on-year to reach ¥106.0 billion. This was due to a solid performance of our
affiliated companies in Japan and China. Please note that the fiscal year-end of our affiliated
companies in China is in December. Therefore, equity in earnings of these companies for the
third quarter reflects the earnings from July to September of 2015.
Now, let me move on to discuss our outlook for the full fiscal year, which will end in March of 2016.
Please turn to page 17. As we announced earlier, our vehicle production in Japan will be
suspended from Monday, February 8. This may cause concern as well as inconvenience to our
customers and other stakeholders. However, please be assured that we will ensure safety and
product quality as top priority and take all measures across the company for speedy recovery.
Please note that the impact of the suspended vehicle production is not factored in our forecast,
due to difficulty of estimation at this point in time. We appreciate your understanding on this
matter.
Please turn to slide 18. With regard to our consolidated vehicle sales for the full fiscal year, we
maintain our forecast of 8.75 million units in total, as previously announced in November. Please
note, however, that the regional breakdown is now revised, up 20,000 units for North America
and down 10,000 units each for Central and South America and for the Middle East respectively.
Please turn to page 19. We revised our assumption of foreign exchange rates to 115 yen to the
dollar, and 125 yen to the euro from January onwards. Thus adopting 120 yen per dollar and 132
yen per euro for the full fiscal year. Based on this assumption, we maintain a forecast of net
revenues, operating income and pre-tax income as we previously announced. With regard to net
income however, we raised our forecast by ¥20 billion to ¥2,270 billion, factoring in the improved
outlook of equity in earnings of affiliated companies.
Now, please look at slide 20, for the analysis of our latest operating income forecast in
comparison to our previous forecast. At ¥2.8 trillion, our latest forecast remains unchanged from
the previous forecast, having affected those positive factors, such as progress in cost reduction
and the weaker than expected yen so far; and negative factors, such as an expected increase in
sales and other expenses.Please turn to slide 21 for the outlook of R&D expenses, capital expenditure and depreciation
expenses. We raised our forecast for CapEx by ¥20 billion to ¥1,230 billion as we intend to bring
forward a part of the TNGA related investment. For R&D and depreciation expenses, our forecast
remain unchanged.
Page 22 please. Lastly, we will continue to manage operations diligently, while staying vigilant in
assessing the current uncertainty over the outlook of emerging markets and the impact of the
suspension of vehicle production.
At the same time, we will continue to focus on the improvement of our profit structure through
cost reduction and other efforts, while steadily implementing initiatives for strengthening our true
competitiveness, including adjustments for future growth. This way, we remain committed to
working towards establishment of a business foundation, which enables us to respond speedily
to any changes.
This concludes my presentation on the third quarter financial results. Thank you very much for
your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Now, we will gladly take your questions, but only up to two questions per person,
please. Further questions may be posed for later if time allows. You don't have to name
yourselves. Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Hachisuka.
Hello, yes. My first question is on North American profitability. In the third quarter operating profit
fell by as much as 15.5% in North America despite higher volumes and an improved model mix
and cost saving measures. So I just wondered, if you could give me more details on that, you
were mentioning higher sales expenses, is that for instance incentives from passenger car sales?
And does it also include, maybe quality expenses? That's the first question.
The second question would be on financial services which saw a decline in the third quarter
operating profit, despite an increase in the lending balance. You were mentioning loan losses and
residual value losses, and I just wondered, if we can have more details on this as well and if you
could give us an outlook for financial services for 2016. Thank you.
Thank you very much for the question. Let me start by answering your first question about the
North American operation profitability. So let me explain two factors behind the decline in North
American profit. First is the sales impact. You're correct pointing out we had the impact of the
increase in incentives, which led to the decline in profits in North America.
Models like Camry and Siena had introduced new versions of the models two years ago, and we
increased the incentives for these models in Q3 which had an impact on North American
profitability. The other factor is the impact of foreign exchange rates. If you look at the
relationship between the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar, in Q3, the Canadian dollar went
weaker as compared to the U.S. dollar.
So, as I mentioned, there are two factors behind decreased profitability in North America. First is
the sales impact, and this had the impact of roughly ¥35 billion. And the second factor is theforeign exchange rate. This had an impact of ¥15 billion. And these led to the decline in
profitability in North America.
Your second question was about financial services. Let me discuss the factors behind the change
in the operating profits in Q3. As we mentioned, we did see an increase in lending balance, which
led to an increase of roughly ¥5 billion in profits. Then there is another factor, which is the
difference between the lending rate and the procurement rate. This has increased compared to
the third quarter of the previous year, and this has led to an increase of roughly ¥7 billion.
Now if you look at the negative side, we have seen an increase in loan losses and the increase in
residual value losses. If you look at the loan loss ratio compared to the same term in the previous
year, we have seen an increase of 0.02%. And we have seen a slight increase in residual value
losses as well. So if you add up the loan loss ratio increase and the residual value aside, in total
that has had an impact of roughly ¥10 billion. And in addition to that we saw an increase in SG&A
expenses. And excluding the swap-related income, we have seen a decline in operating profit of
¥2.8 billion in the segment.
Now for outlook for the full year of fiscal 2016, yes, we do have some negative sides like loan
losses and residual value losses increase. But on the other hand, we are also seeing an increase
in the loan balance and also the spread between the procurement rate and the lending rate. So
excluding the impact of swaps, we are expecting a similar operating income as the previous year.
Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - Operator
Hello. I had two questions. The first question was related – a follow on really about costs and the
lower gross profit margins that we saw in the third quarter. You mentioned U.S. incentives, some
currency impacts. But also, when you look at Japan, it appears that profits were down there as
well. Were there any other factors, any one-offs perhaps related to the Prius launch or anything
like that? If you could talk around other factors that may have got down gross margins in the third
quarter that would be helpful, please?
And then my second question is just trying to reconcile your fourth quarter expectations. You
have quite low revenue expectations in the fourth quarter. However, you expect wholesale
volumes to be relatively flat, and within that you expect the U.S. and Japan to be better,
emerging markets, others being weaker, which I would imagine would be more positive to mix
and so positive to revenue. If you could talk about the expectations you have for the fourth
quarter? And within that also the fact that you expect Asia and others to decline by so much?
Thank you very much for your question. Let me start by talking about the Japanese profitability
and revenue. For Japan, we have seen an increase in expenses and that has pushed down our
profits for this quarter. More specifically R&D cost, labor cost, depreciation cost and other
expenses have increased year-on-year which have pushed down our profits.
Now for the Japanese profitability, it is true that, if you look at the exchange rate between U.S.
dollars and the Japanese yen, the Japanese yen has been weaker and that would be a positive,
that would have positive impact on profitability. However, if you look at the exchange rate
between the Japanese yen and other currencies, for example, the euro, Australian dollars,which would have a negative impact on profitability. So, that is another factor behind the
reduction of profit in Japan in Q3.
Now, let me confirm one point about your second question. You wanted to know the background
of why in Q4 we are forecasting such a low profitability in Asia.
But certainly low wholesale volumes in both Asia and others. And also looking overall revenues,
you're expecting quite a large drop despite the U.S. and Japanese wholesale volumes rising to
offset Asia and others.
Thank you very much. First for the low profitability in Asia, actually the trend will be the same for
revenue or sales. But in Q4 we are forecasting a decline in units or volume in Asia. So we are
forecasting a decline in Q4, in volumes compared to the previous term. In Asia more specifically,
we are expecting a decline of 57,000 units in Q4 and one of the reasons behind that is there will
be a review of the taxation system in Thailand and also in Indonesia, we are in a phase where will
be switching over with IMV and therefore we expect a decline in Asia.
If you look at overall sales in Q4, I may not have been clear in explaining this, but our outlook for
the exchange rate in Q4 is ¥115 against the U.S. dollar, and ¥125 against the euro. So, compared
to previous quarters, we are shifting slightly towards a stronger yen, and that may be one reason
why you might look at the numbers and feel like sales is not increasing.
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Thank you. I'd like to confirm the sensitivity of your profit to exchange rate changes again.
And also, this is still part of the same question, your policy toward currency hedging and the
degree to which you might hedge, and whether there's been a change in your hedging policy
that's my first question. Thank you. And if you could give me the sensitivity to not just the dollar,
but also to some of the other key currencies. Thank you.
Thank you very much for the questions. Let me give you exchange rate sensitivity for each of the
major currencies. For the U.S. dollar, a ¥1 change in exchange rate would lead to a ¥40 billion
difference, in the case of euro, ¥4 billion; Australian dollars, ¥4 billion; Canadian dollars, ¥1 billion;
the UK pound sterling, ¥500 million; and the Russian ruble, ¥100 billion.
And let me add to that, we are doing a global business and therefore, how the emerging
markets, emerging country currencies move against key currencies like the U.S. dollar and the
euro would have a major impact on overall profitability of the company.
And part of your question was about exchange rate, exchange hedge – or foreign exchange rate
hedging policy. We have always been – have had a currency forward contract for about 50% of –
we've had forward exchange contract for about 50% up to about six months from a specific
point.
Okay. Thank you. And my second question is regarding the stoppage of production due to a fire
at Aichi Steel factory. I believe that, as of now your schedule to have zero production assembly in
Japan next week. I am wondering if you could just kind of give us a little bit more background into
what parts are in short supply and how much variability there might be behind your assumption ofone week stoppage in production? Is there – what's the possibility, it may have to be extended
and if so, how much might the stoppage need to be extended. Thank you.
Thank you for your questions. Let me start by answering your second question which was about
the stoppage of the assembly lines in Japan. We will be stopping vehicle assembly from February
8 to February 13 of next week.
And we will be starting our production as normal from February 15. We just announced today that
we will resume production as normal on February 15, because we are now sure that that is now
possible. So please do not worry about any possibilities of the suspension of production going
beyond February 15.
Okay. Thank you very much. Go ahead, sorry.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - Operator
Hi, thank you for taking my questions. My first question is about slide seven. You have increase in
expenses for ¥45 billion, maybe if you can give us a bit of color what is the breakdown for that
¥45 billion?
And my second question is about the breakdown for the decrease on the total liquid assets. It
went down in Q2 from ¥9.1 trillion to ¥9 trillion. What were the major drivers outside the stuff that
you have announced already, the buy back and other things that you've announced (43:59).
Thank you.
Excuse me, clarification from the interpreter. The ¥45 billion, that's for – I am sorry...
That's on slide seven, and that's in increase in expenses, ¥110 billion. There is a breakdown at the
bottom of the slide for ¥45 billion expenses, et cetera.
So you want the breakdown of the expenses, et cetera?
Yes.
Okay. And your second question was the reason behind the decrease in liquid assets?
Yes. That's disclosed in the supplemental material.
So let me start with your first question, which was about the breakdown of ¥45 billion. The largest
portion of that ¥45 billion is a little over ¥20 billion in general expenses. And to your question
about the decline in liquid assets, we saw a decline in volume in the number of units; and with it,
we saw a major decline in accounts receivable. Compared to end of March 2015, we see a
decrease of about ¥235 billion in accounts receivable.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - OperatorCould you please give us a bit more detail on the strategy for absorbing Daihatsu? How will that
change Toyota and Daihatsu going forward, and how do you intend to use Daihatsu once it's
absorbed?
The second question is, just a very quick question, with regard to the production suspension, is it
reasonable to assume that much of the lost production will be made up during the month of
March in terms of overtime shifts or additional stress and weekend work? Thank you very much?
Let me start. Thank you very much for your questions. Let me start by answering your first
question, which is about the integration or making Daihatsu a wholly owned subsidiary. The
purpose of making Daihatsu, a wholly owned subsidiary is to strengthen our small vehicle
business by utilizing the two brands of Toyota and Daihatsu.
So that is the biggest purpose of making Daihatsu a wholly owned subsidiary. So the two
companies will be doing small vehicle business under the same strategy and both companies will
work to focus on its strength. So that, both Toyota and Daihatsu can continue to make ever better
cars in the small vehicle category.
Both Toyota and Daihatsu have accumulated strengths and advantages in the small vehicle
business, and the two companies will enhance the cooperation between the two companies, and
will continue to make our small vehicle business stronger. And in particular, we will be focusing on
the emerging markets for small vehicle businesses.
And on to your second question, that was about how to recover by the end of this fiscal year, the
impact of the suspension of production for vehicles. And as I mentioned before, starting on
February 15, all our production lines will go back to normal production. And as we start normal
production of vehicles, we will continue to monitor the situation of component and parts supply.
And based on that conformation, we will confirm on our plan of vehicle production and – excuse
me, so will monitor the situation of parts and components supply and make our utmost efforts so
that we can go back to as close to normal as possible. And we will make efforts so that we can
recover the lost production to the extent possible.
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please?
Q - Operator
Can you hear me?
Yes.
My question relates to the marketing activity, if you look at slide nine, for the first nine months of
the year, marketing activity subtracted ¥95 billion from operating profit, yet for the full year for
that category you have a positive $65 billion. Guessing how you're going to close that gap and
have what would be quite a big reversal simply in Q4.
My second question relates to affiliate income. And could you explain the growth in Japanese
affiliate income, given that volumes were lower please?
Excuse me your second question was about the affiliate income increase in Japan? And...So let me start with your first question. On a consolidated basis, the number of units sold was
decreased unfortunately by 247,000 units and that has had an impact of ¥170 billion on the
negative side. And on the other hand, if you look at the model mix and the region-by-region mix,
we have seen an increase in North America and we have seen a decline in Japanese mini car. So
that would have a positive impact on our results. And with the change in these mixes, we have
seen a positive impact of ¥50 billion.
And at the same time, we saw a positive impact of sales price increase. However, we also saw an
increase in sales related expenses, so that increase in sales related expenses offset the increase,
the impact of increase in sales price because the amount of these two were about the same.
And page nine is about the nine months cumulative effect, but we saw a positive effect on after-
market part, the supply part, on operating profit.
And with all these added up, we saw a negative impact of ¥95 billion for the first nine months of
this fiscal year. And as you mentioned, if we look at Q4 on a year-on-year basis, we will have a
positive sales related effect of about ¥110 billion. And one of the large factors that contribute to
that result is that we forecast an increase in volume in Q4. And in Q4, we expect an even more
positive impact of model mix and regional mix.
Your second question was in particular about the Japanese – the factors behind the Japanese
affiliates increase in profitability. So, for example, companies like Toyota Industries Corporation
has a positive effect on our result, and that has – that is one example of having a positive effect
on our affiliates based on the equity method in Japan.
Thank you. Could I just get some clarity on the first answer? Could you tell me how much of that
¥110 billion for Q4 is volume and how much is the mix?
Thank you for the question. With the volume increase in Q4, we expect a positive effect of ¥20
billion, and the mix improvement will have a positive contribution of ¥40 billion.
Sorry, I thought the overall was ¥110 billion?
Excuse me for that, so the volume was ¥20 billion, mix was ¥40 billion plus, and also there are
other factors like the improvement or increase in sales price, and all that included will have a
positive impact of about ¥110 billion sales related positive impact – ¥110 billion.
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. It seems there are no more questions. So this concludes this conference call now. If
you require further information, please contact our IR representatives in New York or London.
Thank you very much for joining us today. Good-bye.