Q3 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. And our first question comes from the line of `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Yes. Thank you for taking my question. It's `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. here. I've got two questions actually.
The first question just relates to – I know the market is very nervous at the moment about
spending across the sector as a `whole, as our spearhead of innovation and technology enabler. We are consistently applying. I just wanted to know just how confident you are of
sticking within your targeted range for both R&D and CapEx in the medium-term. I know you were
saying Q4 spending will rise. But how confident are you that those target ranges don't have to lift
up to take into account all the spending on future mobility trends?
And then, my second question relates a little bit to the head count cost. Where do you see this
trend moving going forward? Clearly, there is going to be some needs to sort of shift where the
head count is coming from in terms of what people are developing, moving some combustion
engines to new technologies. I'm presuming you are preparing for those shift, but how difficult is
it to move that head count into the new areas that you need and retrain old engineers into some
software engineering purposes, and what more work do you have to do in that area? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Kristina. Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance?
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
Kristina, thank you for your question. So first of all, well, we are focusing now for preparation of
the next big product momentum coming to the BMW Group. So with many news cars that we are
waiting for to see them being very successful in the market starting in 2017 with the new 5 Series
and later on with all the other volume models and X models to support our performance.
So this has to be prepared. In the same point in time as you mentioned, we have to develop new
technologies, and we have to see how we move forward in a digital world. So this has, of course,
a cost associated to this strategy; and therefore, I cannot rule out that in 2017, for example, the
ratio will be a bit higher and maybe a bit outside of the corridor.
But as we guided our investments in 2013, we think that's a period of one or two `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than thes, but we
possibly need a bit more in this field in order to make the `company, 1,200 of them in Germany. competitive. And then our
expectation is to come back into this corridor of 5% to 5.5%. So that's what I can say about R&D.
And, well, CapEx, basically, we see more on R&D side now, and CapEx should be fairly `stable, we can confirm our guidance from the beginning of the `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the. The BMW Group expects to in
the ranges as far as I see it from today's perspective. So that's one point of it.
And head count, basically, you're right. The `company, 1,200 of them in Germany. is in a situation where we have to think
about many new areas that we have to support with head count in a field of digitalization, new
technologies, electro-mobility and so on and so forth. And the way we want to approach it is that
we are streamlining existing processes, being more efficient, moving resources out of other
areas. So our intention is not to put everything on top. It has to be managed. And we have
already started severe projects in order to get into this position. But that would mean that we
need to hire specialists, of course, that we have not onboard and we have to think about how we
move, where we move people to in areas where maybe, the work is not required in the future.A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay.
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Understood. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) from UBS. Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) `
Yes. `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker), UBS here. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group performed well in the third quarter of. Two questions, please. Regarding the fourth
quarter, that's my first question, and the margin you expect there. You mentioned three
potentially negative factors driving the margin downwards such as destocking, such as skewing
cost and CapEx to the fourth quarter, and the ongoing very competitive situation in the U.S. So I
was wondering can you make any comment whether the Q4 EBIT margin on an isolated basis is
going to remain in the 8% `to 10%, at 8.5%. corridor? Or could we actually see a Q4 margin that falls below
that range?
And my second question relates to your EV strategy. You've announced the electrification of two
models, the `MINI, Rolls-Royce and BMW Motorrad VISION vehicles combine all these characteristics, as well as and the X3. So these are not brand new models like the i family. That's just an
electrification of existing platforms. Is that shift in strategy or modification of your strategy the
way forward that we'll see a fully-electrified version of all the big volume models going forward?
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Patrick. We start with Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance and then `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., about the e-models.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
I mean, basically, what I can say, we are confirming our guidance for the full `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the and our margin
guidance is always related to the full-`year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the result. We never guided so far our quarterly margins. So
– and I want to stay with this principle going forward.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead.?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First of all, the BMW Group is both a pioneer and a leader in electric-mobility as we started with
the BMW i3 in 2013. We just announced yesterday that we now have delivered more than
`100,000 vehicles with an electric drive train sold worldwide. That means, more than 60,000,000 electrified vehicles to our customers, roundabout of them are 30,000 plug-in hybrids,
ePerformance models for the brand BMW. We have roundabout more `than 10,000 BMW i8s, making it the number one electric sports car; and around about 30,000,000 i8s, and the
rest of it is the i3. So roundabout more than 60,000 i3s.If you look at this one, the BMW i brand is still something which is – which we understand as the
innovation leader, yeah, and the target is to go beyond and develop further things. And that's
why we deliver the BMW iNEXT in 2021 focusing on three, four major innovations which is e-
mobility of the future, which is connectivity of the future, which is also lightweight structure and
autonomous driving, for example. And this syncs, as you can see, with the i8 plug-in hybrids. We
had the i8 plug-in hybrid and transfer that technology then to the core brand BMW. And that will
continue in the future.
That's why we are calling it we are now in Phase II of the electrification strategy because we now
transferred into the main models like the `MINI, Rolls-Royce and BMW Motorrad VISION vehicles combine all these characteristics, as well as electric, which will come on the market in 2019 or
the BMW X3, which will come to the market by 2020. You can see that we have developed our
architectures, our product momentum in that way that we are not just doing the i brand, which is
also having the i8 Roadster in 2018. We are going now into the main brands and main models.
And this gives us lot of flexibility for the future to cope with the demand on battery electric
vehicles, as well as on delivering the targets on CO2 and emissions.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) `
Thank you. And, Dr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, can I have a very quick follow-up question regarding your comment
about the U.S. situation? You mentioned that it's going to remain very competitive in the fourth
quarter there as well. Looking at the latest data we got from October, it really seems BMW is
falling behind competition in terms of volumes, which I guess has to do with the product cycle. But
do you see any other reasons why BMW right now is actually underperforming the premium
peers? And by when would you expect that trend to end? Thank you.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
Well, if you look at the worldwide growth of the `segment, we expect return on equity to remain at last `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the's level and therefore above our, I think we cannot say that BMW is
underperforming the premium `segment, we expect return on equity to remain at last `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the's level and therefore above our, right? Maybe that one competitor has a strong
momentum for the time-being, but that's only one competitor in a field of more than one
competitors. So we shouldn't forget that where the comparison is. We just tend to look at two
players and I think it's not the `whole, as our spearhead of innovation and technology enabler. We are consistently applying premium `segment, we expect return on equity to remain at last `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the's level and therefore above our.
And as I said, we know that the product momentum is coming back with the replacement and
offer of volume models like 5 Series, 1 Series, 4 Series and so on, also with many X models. And
on same point in time, we are adding new models like the X7 into our portfolio. And this is
basically supporting our performance going forward. And this will come in, I would say, in the
second half of 2017, remember, and then very strongly in 2018 and 2019. So that's how we look at
the way into the future.
Actually, with a strong still good performance in markets like Europe, Asia, we maintain our
profitability in a targeted range of 8% `to 10%, at 8.5%.. We think that this is a good result if you look at the
cycle where we are. And we are, of course, ambitious to stay at that level going forward.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) `
Sure. Thank you. My question was more in the U.S., but thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please.
OperatorThank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd from Evercore ISI. Please
go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd `
Yes. Thank you. I've got one question on the 7 Series and then into the 5 Series, please. Krüger,
have you learned anything from the 7 Series launch that made you change tactics on the 5 Series?
Because what I'm hearing a lot and I guess what most of us are seeing as well is that the 7 Series
is struggling a little bit. It's already coming with quite significant discounts and actions in the
market. And investors fear that the 5 Series might experience similar problems when it's being
launched beginning of the next `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the. Is there something that you're still thinking you could do, you
need to do, anything you want to do different with the 5 Series compared to the 7 Series? Thank
you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Arndt. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead..
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Okay, Arndt. On the question on the 7 Series maybe first, three facts. The one is, it has been the
most successful 7 Series so far compared to previous generations. We have in the first nine
`months, 9.8% more than the previous `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the. The overall volume of new business climbed around sold much more vehicles than compared to the previous generation.
Secondly, if you look at the global situation, there are markets where we are still already leading
and are ahead of the competition in terms of, for example, the European markets mainly, where
we are leading the markets in the U.S. is very competitive between our main competitor and us,
and China is also a very important market, where we are still number two. But if you look at the
global picture, it differs very much in terms of where are you and what can you see in terms of
competition.
As we are in the launch phase, we now have put on, in addition, the plug-in hybrid 7 Series has
just come to the market. And we are now in the launch phase which will come next `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the. Probably
not the biggest volumes but also important for the 7 Series is the V12 M Performance model.
So there is definitely competition going on, and this is good for all brands. And we will see what
the outcome will be in the next weeks and `months, 9.8% more than the previous `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the. The overall volume of new business climbed around to come. But so far, the new 7 Series has been
the most successful 7 Series ever.
Secondly was the question do we do something on the 5 Series different? On the 5 Series, it's
already the `segment, we expect return on equity to remain at last `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the's level and therefore above our leader. So 5 Series had also, if you look at the figures, it's still leading the
`segment, we expect return on equity to remain at last `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the's level and therefore above our in the run-out phase, which shows that the current 5 Series is still very successful.
If you have the outlook, we will replace the 5 Series next `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the. We will also have at China, long-
wheelbase version next `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the. So there is more models to come next `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the with – like Fritz just said
before, the product momentum will be especially coming in the second half of 2017.
And we have done something special on the new 5 Series, which is the driving momentum, as
well as the connectivity. We are quite sure that we are the leader of the game in terms of
connectivity, and we will show that to our customers when it comes on being presented to the
car. So there are a lot of innovations coming with the car, and I'm positive about it.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd `And if I may, just a quick follow-up here.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd `
Are you also happy with the pricing of the 7 Series? And I'm asking this because we see 0%
financing, £10,000 dealer cash here in the UK. And I see similar price action in other markets,
which, at this stage of the cycle, at least to me, seems a bit too much.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
The 7 Series pricing is always depending from the competition and where we are going and how
the strong the brand is. And there is a different picture across the globe.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) from Deutsche Bank. Please
go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
Yes. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group performed well in the third quarter of. `Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for for taking my questions. I would ask two, please. The
first one is on electrification again. It seems that we have all these noise and views around tighter
emission standards, electrification and so on and so forth. `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., when you discuss with
politicians, what is your impression behind closed doors? We get now discussions around an EU-
wide regulation, a national regulation that you had seen in some in selected cities. Some views
that are very different from the national level.
When you discuss with regulators behind the doors, are they approaching you more hostile than
before VW Dieselgate scandal? Or is it still a rational constructive talks where they understand
the economical and physical limitations that you guys are subject to?
And then secondly, I just like to ask about China. Your operations are, obviously, run pretty well
there. Currently, we have two debates in that market, about the tax incentives and then also
about this apparent quota for electric vehicles that might come or might not come now. Could
you perhaps share your thoughts on these two things? And also why you added to the risk
section that you see a substantial risk for a financial crisis in China coming up in the next couple of
quarters? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Tim. We start with `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead. and then Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of ManagementTim, on the questions on tighter emission targets, on emissions of CO2 and the discussion we
have with the politicians, first of all, I deeply believe in sustainable mobility and the electrification
for the future. Because if you think about reducing on improving air quality in China, you need
electric vehicles, yeah? Without that significant portion, you will not solve those problems.
Secondly, the CO2 targets in 2020 and beyond in Europe, you can't meet without any
electrification. You need, maybe, we see a portion of 15% to 25% electrified vehicles in `the `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the, so we expect this to have a dampening effect on earnings. Capital expenditure will also
2025, but you cannot achieve those targets without plug-in hybrid or a battery electric vehicles.
So that's why I deeply believe in that one.
There is also the chance – and if you think about the future, the costs for developing further the
combustion engines and the emission systems is getting more and more expensive, the tighter it
is. So e-mobility is clearly the pillar of Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT.
I will cover also to your question about China, tax incentives on the electric cars. I mean, that is
currently a proposal that's on the table which is under discussion. Nothing has been decided so
far. We have electric vehicles in China as the i3 import car, we have also local plug-in hybrid cars
just launched, the new X1 plug-in hybrids long wheelbase for the Chinese market. But we need to
see what is the outcome. One thing is for sure for me is, China will be one of the big markets for
electrification in the future.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance?
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
Well, on the risk side in China, what we said is that we see a growing debt especially for state-
owned enterprises, for provinces, and in the real estate sector. And that is something that is
discussed for the `whole, as our spearhead of innovation and technology enabler. We are consistently applying industry and not only for automotive. And, of course, if this comes to a
bubble and comes to a burst, then we would definitely feel it. So that's the point we wanted to
make clear, because we don't see it coming down. It's going further up.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
Great. Thank you. If I just may very quickly follow-up, `Mr. Krüger, please go ahead., on your answer. It seems as an
external observer when you talk to politicians and you also talk to the press and several other
stakeholders that the environment did become a lot more hostile. It seems like politicians don't
necessarily really want to be associated too much with car lobby agencies nowadays. I think we
on the banking side know that quite well unfortunately. Is that a wrong assessment? Do you still
feel that these guys are acting economically rational and understand your needs and limitations,
or is it really the case that it became a lot less unfriendly?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
I mean it requires an intensive dialogue on both sides, and you need to share the arguments, you
need to share what is technically possible, how we are moving forward. But it will be always, what
I would call a constructive and intensive discussion, and sometimes, you have different opinions,
but that's it. But this is everywhere in the world.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker) `
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Philippe Houchois from Jefferies. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Thank you. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group performed well in the third quarter of. My first question is on the Financial Services. You had a quite a strong
contribution in `the third quarter, net financial assets amounted to €16.72 billion., and a quick question there. Is there anything non-recurring there
such as no lease of sales of off-lease vehicles? In the longer-term, in Financial Services, I'm just
wondering, are you preparing yourself for – I mean, you've done a good job recently of re-using
leasing exposure, doing other financing mechanisms, but are you preparing yourself in a (48:54)
to absorb the higher share of leasing coming through one consumer's concern about technical
obsolescence of cars and wanting to have kind of the protection against those risk. And also, a
higher penetration of fleet buyers within the industry that would force you to, to have a higher
exposure in terms of leasing?
And the other question I have is totally different, and it's a minor one in maybe some ways, but an
interesting one. I just saw the lawsuit, the legal challenge that you're having with SKF on the back
of this sign on this selling of the – of some of the ball bearings. I'm just wondering is, this is
typically the kind of stuff we would expect you and SKF to work out behind closed doors, and not
make it to the public scene? Is this a sign that OEMs are potentially getting a bit more combative
or aggressive towards suppliers, especially the ones who are more in the – more traditional end
of the industry, and you're putting a bit more pressure on the pricing of your suppliers? Thank
you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay, Philippe, thank you very much. This answer will be answered by Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
Well, basically, you're right. We have a strong Financial Services business, and it is first of all
supported by low interest rates and a favorable financing in some markets. We even don't have
to pay interest, and we have negative interest so that helps a lot from this side. And we have a
strong business in the United States and especially now in China, where in the meantime,
penetration rate is above 40%. That's basically more or less background of this result, nothing
really extraordinary.
`Now, let's move on to the outlook for the fourth quarter. Costs generally rise towards the end of, your question about leasing, basically, as you can see the number, we still keep the leasing
share in the business flat, right? This is – it's basically one-third. But you cannot run away from
leasing in markets like the U.S. where without leasing, you wouldn't sell a car. So that's one thing.
On the other hand, that's fairly balanced with the development in China because we don't have,
really, leasing in China so far. It will come at a later stage and we are preparing for that. But that's
basically the position, the different positions in those two markets.
Looking into the future at mobility services and new ideas, I agree with you. This means that more
and more cars will definitely be leased. And the only way to prepare for this is a rigid riskour contracts. And on the other hand, we have to strengthen our used-car channels, which is very
important in order to manage all the off-lease products that are coming in the future. So those
are the two areas, where we are really focusing on and we are making progress, also in a digital
world.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
Last question was a comment on supplier relations.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yeah.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
But there are no concerns so far. We have good relationships and there's nothing where I have a
– we would see a problem.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Okay, thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Philippe. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) from HSBC. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Yeah. Thanks for taking my question. It's Horst from HSBC. First of all, again, some questions on
Q4 and I know that you've said, you don't give guidance on Q4. But I just want to ask, should we
expect for Q4 the usual seasonal turnaround to production volumes will be fairly significant below
retail sales, roughly 30,000, units, 40,000 units?
And then, I want to know as well if the Q3 EBIT at Financial Services was just an outlier or if you
should expect a strong margin also in Q4?
And then, more longer-term and coming back to your EV strategy update, I just want to know if
we should work in the forecast also in the future with other cost changes in the magnitude of,
yeah, roughly minus €500 million per annum, so I mean, in terms of sequential annual increases.
And then the last question that I have relates a little bit to the U.S. elections next week and
potentially to get more volatility in the currency market on the back of that depending on who
wins. And I just want to know to which extent you are now already hedged for the U.S. dollar in
2017 and 2018? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate AffairsOkay. `Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Horst. Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, please?
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
Well, basically, first question about production below retail in Q4, that's right. So we are always
ramping up production in the second quarter and third quarter for sales. And this will be the case
this time also by a big amount. And so it supported what you said.
EBIT at FS, well, as long as the business is moving forward and is doing well in China and in the
U.S., and the second question has to do with your last one, right, is we are expecting a sort of a
good result from Financial Services in the fourth quarter as well. Because there is no reason to
believe that there is a dramatically change from today's perspective, and we are already standing
in November. `Now, let's move on to the outlook for the fourth quarter. Costs generally rise towards the end of, that's what I can say here. So I'm not expecting a surprise in the fourth quarter
for the Financial Services result.
And then, the question about the – other cost changes in the future. Well, basically, we have to
say that we will have to invest more into the competitiveness of the `company, 1,200 of them in Germany.. I mentioned it
already today. So our expectation is for example in the R&D field that the ratio will be a bit higher
next `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the, maybe also above our (55:35) 5% to 5.5%. And for the digitalization, we also we'll have
to invest more.
So there are investments coming. And they will make us – they will generate a certain burden for
profits that will generate cost. But having said that, at the same point in time, we are looking for
efficiency measures and then we also launched initiatives in order to streamline our processes to
be more efficient to take cost out and to balance as much as possible. `Now, let's move on to the outlook for the fourth quarter. Costs generally rise towards the end of, that's what I can say
for this item.
And, well, U.S. election are basically, we're not arguing on the political side. What I can say is from
our side, we have a very good hedging position for U.S. dollar going forward in 2017 and 2018.
That gives us some flexibility and I think I cannot say more.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Then just last follow-up on this – on the cost changes. It does not mean necessarily that the cost
will sequentially increase. You could potentially offset additional costs related to the EVs by cost –
by other saving measures.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
I mean, we have to see that we – of course, fixed cost will – at a total amount in a growing
environment, fixed cost definitely will go up, right? The question always is by how much and how
is it balanced against other revenue and the sales side, right? And from today's perspective, it
should be possible to have a similar balance as they have it today in order to support our 8% to
10% margin target. Otherwise, this would not be possible.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Okay. Thank you. That's clear.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. So `Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat what I said in L.A. We have already arrived at a place thank you very much for your questions today. It's now
approximately five minutes to three. Today's closing remarks belong to `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd. Arndt,
please go ahead.Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd `
Yes. Thanks for allowing me in again. Dr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, now that we have come to the end of your last
earnings release, and if I'm right, I counted 31 of them. 31 quarters out of which you've met or
beaten your 8% `to 10%, at 8.5%. margin range. I just wanted to say, really, big, big thank you. For the past
eight `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than thes, you've been amongst the most trusted and forward-looking CFOs we've been lucky
to work with. It's been a really impressive light since you took over the CFO job in late-2008, right
in the middle of the financial crisis.
And we're all aware that you've been instrumental in managing the general market volatility
especially growth in China and in addition to that, the major influence on the BMW i launch. And
despite BMW's really significant financial success over `the `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than the, so we expect this to have a dampening effect on earnings. Capital expenditure will alsos, you've never shown signs of
complacency but instead, have operated with decorum and honesty that we've all appreciated.
So we all wish you all the very best for the future. A couple of really well-deserved rounds of calls
and again, on behalf of all us, many thanks, Dr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Do you want to say something personal?
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
I'm surprised. You surprised me really.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay.
A - `Friedrich `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance, Member of the Board of Management-Finance `
Well, thank you Arndt for your remarks. I really have to say we developed I think a good
relationship, I always tried to be honest, and give you the right indication. So no surprises.
Sometimes, in the first `year, the BMW Group delivered almost 1.75 million vehicles to customers, 6.2% more than thes, you didn't believe what we said. I know that. But then, you
discovered that basically, what we are saying, we tried to deliver and we had a good basis on
that. And a person who we really like, the way we worked together and your questions that were
always at the point.
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, ladies and gentlemen. That's all there is to say. `Thank you very much, Mr. `Eichiner, our CFO. First, Harald Krüger will give you an update on the business performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for for
joining us today. Bye-bye and [Foreign Language] (59:34).