Q2 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Hachisuka from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the Fiscal Year 2017 Second
Quarter. I am `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation; and Ms. Ota (1:06), our interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Ms. Ota (01:19) will take over the rest of the
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and that actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page two
of today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading
is included on page three. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the first half of the fiscal year which will end in March 2017. Let me
start with slide 5. Compared to the same period of the last fiscal year, consolidated vehicle sales
increased by 85,000 units to 4.363 million units. Vehicle sales decreased in Middle East and
Africa, where the economies and the markets were affected by falling oil prices, but increased in
Japan and Asia mainly driven by popular new models.
Please look at slide 6, our consolidated financial result for the first half of the current fiscal year
were net revenues of ¥13,070.5 billion, operating income of ¥1,116.8 billion, pre-tax income of
¥1,176.5 billion and net income of ¥946.1 billion.Now, I'd like to hand the rest of this presentation to Ms. Ota (03:34), our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Next, using slide 7, I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-
year. Despite the positive factors such as cost reduction and marketing efforts, operating income
was down ¥466.5 billion compared to the first half of the last fiscal year due to the significant
impacts of yen appreciation. Nevertheless, operating income excluding the overall impact of
foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses was up ¥200 billion.
Please see slide 8. For the second quarter, our consolidated financial results were net revenues
of ¥6,481.4 billion, operating income of ¥474.6 billion, pre-tax income of ¥499.4 billion and net
income of ¥393.7 billion. For your information, slide 9 summarizes the major factors which
impacted operating income for the second quarter year-on-year.
Now, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region. Please see slide 10. In Japan,
vehicle sales increased by 94,000 units year-on-year to 1,078,000 units driven by new models
such as the Prius, Sienta and Passo. Operating income, however, declined by ¥473.4 billion to
¥485.7 billion due to the effects of forex rate and an increase in expenses despite vehicle sales
growth and cost reduction efforts.
Please see slide 11. In North America, vehicle sales were 1.4 million units, down 13,000 units year-
on-year due to a decline in passenger car sales as demand shifted to light trucks. Nevertheless,
operating income improved by ¥11.0 billion to ¥296.8 billion compared to the first half of the last
fiscal year, mainly as a result of cost reduction efforts despite increased marketing expenses.
In Europe, on slide 12, vehicle sales grew by 27,000 units year-on-year to 434,000 units on the
back of solid sales in Western Europe particularly over hybrid models. Operating income
increased by ¥2.4 billion to ¥34.6 billion as a result of vehicle sales growth and other marketing
efforts.
Please see slide 13. In Asia, vehicle sales were up 111,000 units year-on-year to 765,000 units
driven by new models such as the IMV series light trucks, and Calya, and Indonesia and the
Philippines in particular. Operating income decreased by ¥23.1 billion year-on-year to ¥219.6 billion
despite marketing and cost reduction efforts due to increased expenses and decreased exports
to the Middle East.
Please move on to slide 14. In other regions, overall vehicles sales were 686,000 units down
134,000 units year-on-year as sales declined in the Middle East and Africa under the influence of
falling oil prices. Operating income decreased by ¥13.8 billion to ¥55.2 billion primarily because of
the effects of forex rates and an increase in expenses despite marketing efforts such as raising
prices.
Next, please see slide 15 for financial services. Operating income excluding swap valuation gains
and losses for the first half of this fiscal year declined ¥41.9 billion year-on-year to ¥138.1 billion
due to increased costs related loan losses and residual value losses despite an increase in
lending balance.
On slide 16, equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the first half of this fiscal year increased
by ¥6.7 billion year-on-year to ¥168.3 billion. This was a result of solid performance over affiliated
companies in China.
Next, please look at slide 17 on shareholder return. With regard to the interim dividend onbased on our policy of paying dividend stably and sustainably using the consolidated payout ratio
of 30% as a benchmark.
Next, please see slide 18. In addition, we plan to buy back up to ¥200 billion or 40 million shares
of our common stock. We will continue to repurchase common share flexibly as a means of
improving shareholder return as well as capital efficiency.
Please refer to slide 19, which compares our shareholder return programs for the current fiscal
year and those of the last fiscal year. In addition to the interim dividend on common shares, we
plan to pay an interim dividend of ¥52.5 per share on the Model AA Class Shares. As a result, the
total amount of the interim dividends will be ¥302.8 billion. Adding this to the share repurchase
program of ¥200 billion, the total shareholder return for the interim period will be up to ¥502.8
billion and the total return ratio will be up to 53.1%.
Slide 20 shows changes in the balance of treasury stock. We held 300 million shares of treasury
stock at the end of March 2016. The balance is expected to be 375 million shares at the end of
March 2017. As a consequence of both the announced share repurchase programs for the
purpose of shareholder return and the share exchange for the purpose of acquiring the full
ownership of Daihatsu.
We intend to keep the balance of treasury stock at approximately 300 million shares for the sake
of flexibility of management and to cancel excess shares in principle. Therefore, we plan to
cancel 75 million shares of treasury stock by the end of this fiscal year.
Now, I would like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year ending in March 2017.
Please look at slide 22. Our latest forecast of consolidated vehicle sales for the full fiscal year are
8.85 million units down 50,000 units from our previous forecast. Vehicle sales is excepted to
increase in Asia against the backdrop of the recovering market but are likely to decrease in North
America where passenger car sales are more severely affected by the demand shift to light
trucks.
In Japan where the mini car market is slowing down and the Middle East where market conditions
are deteriorating with weak oil prices. Please, see slide 23. We maintain our assumption of
foreign exchange rates of ¥100 per dollar and ¥110 per euro for October onwards thus adopting
¥103 per dollar and ¥114 per euro for the full fiscal year.
Based on this, our forecasts of consolidated financial performance for the full fiscal year are net
revenue of ¥26 trillion, operating income of ¥1,700 billion, pre-tax income of ¥1,900 billion and
net income of ¥1,550 billion.
Please see slide 24 for an analysis of our latest operating income forecast. In comparison to our
previous forecast at the first quarter reporting while reflecting actual forex rate for the first half
we have factored in additional profit improvement measures totaling ¥65 billion consisting of cost
reduction, marketing efforts and revision of expenses as a result, we revised our forecast up
¥100 billion to ¥1.7 trillion.
Next, please see slide 25, which compares the latest operating income forecast for the current
fiscal year with the result of last fiscal year. Operating income excluding the overall impact of
forex rate and swap valuation gains and losses was expected to improve by ¥50 billion year-on-
year at the first quarter reporting. It is now expected to improve by ¥115 billion as a result of the
additional profit improvement measures of ¥65 billion.Finally, please see slide 26 for the outlook of R&D expenses, capital expenditures, and
depreciation expenses. The outlook of R&D expenses and CapEx remain unchanged from our
previous forecast. Depreciation expenses, on the other hand, are now reduced by ¥10 billion to
¥910 billion.
This summarizes our latest financial result and forecast. Going forward, our external environment
is likely to remain challenging with yen appreciation and ongoing changes in market conditions.
We will therefore pursue further profit improvement in the areas of marketing efforts, cost
reductions, and fixed cost control.
At the same time, we are determined to make progress towards our future growth through the
implementation of TNGA and R&D activities involving ADAS, connected vehicles, and next-
generation environmental technologies.
This concludes my presentation on the financial result for the first half of the fiscal year ending in
March 2017. Thank you very much for your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you, Mr. Otake and Ms. Ota (15:07). Now we would gladly take your questions, but only up
to two questions per person please. Further question may be possible later if time allows. You
don't have to name yourself. Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your lines.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Mr. Hachisuka. We will now pause for a moment to receive the first question.
Good morning. Can you hear me?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Yes.
Q - Operator
Just you mentioned that your volumes were down in North America because of the mixed shift
towards car – towards trucks and away from cars. I'm just curious if you are considering or will
consider a shift in capacity towards crossovers and trucks to address this issue in the short term
and in the long-term, and if you think that this is a more structural shift that you really do need to
address.
[Foreign Language] (17:53-18:40)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. Yes, as you pointed out that there is a continuous trend that is a shift
from the – toward the trucks and SUV-type vehicles.
[Foreign Language] (18:54-19:14)
According to forecast and outlook that the market of the Americas is to reach 17.4 million units,
and of that total, the composition or contribution by the trucks and SUV is estimated to reach
60%.[Foreign Language] (19:37-19:54)
To respond to that situation, that we are accommodating ourselves to respond to this changing
demand shift, for example we are gradually increasing the capacity of production of the Tacoma,
Highlander and Tundra and so forth as the – gradually, so that we can cope with this shifting
market.
[Foreign Language] (20:23-20:48)
We are analyzing the factors contributing this shift, that is to say oil prices has come down and
that low oil price situation seems to have stabilized as a backdrop. Therefore, gasoline prices
have come down and then – I think it has created a comfortable situation for the buyers and
potential buyers to afford such type of a model.
[Foreign Language] (21:14-21:41)
However, we are introducing TNGA to the passenger vehicles where we would have – and we will
launch good quality, good models, with a highly competitive edge, and those new models are to
be deployed. Therefore, we would like to cautiously monitor the model mix in the market
concerned so that we would like to follow the trend of the U.S. market.
Q - Operator
Thank you. And second question on the marketing expenses that you highlighted as a pressure
that you were able to offset in the quarter in North America, are those efforts going to be
ramped up or will you prefer to cut production further in response to a weakening or sort of a
lightening U.S. market and the shift towards trucks?
Also, we're hearing from dealers that gross margins are coming under pressure particularly at all
dealerships but also especially at Toyota dealerships. So, they seem to be bearing the brunt of
some price cutting to move inventory. So, I'm just curious, as you think about going forward, will
you favor production cuts versus price cuts as the market weakens?
[Foreign Language] (22:57-24:20)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Just as you pointed out that the sales competition is – marketing competition is getting more and
more fierce, which is a fact. And the – as to the incentive compare to the period six months ago, I
think the increment of this incentive cost is maybe curtailed at the $200 increment level
compared to the previous periods.
[Foreign Language] (24:50-25:10)
Therefore, in the North America, the operation it is very – faced with a very severe and difficult
market. So, currently, our operation is of course focused upon and always focused upon how to
strike a good balance between the profitability and the volume unit.
[Foreign Language] (25:29-25:52)
So, by implementing the proper and optimal management of operation that we will like to
maintain the level of inventory at the optimal level, and then, at the same time, we would like to
make efforts to try to maintain and improve the profitability for the dealers as well.And in order to carry out the optimal good operation that the sales financing is a very important
so that the sales as well as the financing will team up in an optimal way so that the good
cooperation between those two parties will enable the good optimal operation.
Q - Operator
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Thank you very much for the call. Just two questions for me and a follow-up to the previous
question. You were talking about finance operations yet on page 15 of the slide pack, you
highlighted decline in the financial services based primarily on loan loss ratios and residuals. Could
you give us an update on the loan loss ratio, your overall lease ratio, and what the outlook you
think is for residual pricing in North America, that's my first question.
[Foreign Language] (27:36-28:32)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
As to this – that loan ratio the losses during this first half of this year, the North America TMCC
had this rate of 0.31%.
[Foreign Language] (28:49-29:05)
Excuse me, let me correct this figure. This 0.31% of bad loan ratio was the percent applied for the
same period last year and this first half of this year, this ratio has deteriorated to slightly to
0.43%, that is a loan loss ratio.
[Foreign Language] (29:26-29:47)
So, during the first half there was slight increase of loan losses; however, we have implemented
the optimal and proper management measures as well as the collection methods improved so
that the risks are now controlled more appropriately. And then so, gradually, this – the loan loss is
on the decline.
[Foreign Language] (30:10-30:27)
Another question related to lease ratio that the lease ratio has gone down slightly that is currently
30.7%.
[Foreign Language] (30:36-31:04)
Another question related to residual-value losses, the background for that is this lowered price
for the second-hand used cars and then there has been this increase (31:19). However, I think the
situation has improved slightly and is improving slightly so that the return ratio is going down
according to our forecast.
Q - OperatorOkay. Great. Thank you very much. My second question is on slide 16. The affiliated equity
earnings, and in Q2, China actually noted a slight decline in profitability despite a solid
improvement in Q1. Could you give us an explanation of that decline – or is that basically flat? And
the outlook going forward for China? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (32:08-32:48)
Thank you very much for your question. Yes, as you pointed out, it's correct that in China, during
this second quarter, these three months, this figure has been almost leveled off in China. It is
almost at the same level as the same period before.
[Foreign Language] (33:08-33:22)
So, we scrutinized this content of this number. I think foreign exchange has adversely affected. In
other words, the renminbi has been depreciated which has adversely affected the Q2.
[Foreign Language] (33:39-33:57)
So, the situation and our approach is similar to what we have done to the operation in North
America but in China as well that we would like to maintain and enhance the profit for each
vehicle, as well as to achieve the overall volume target so that we would like to strike a balance
between those two.
[Foreign Language] (34:19-34:37)
The number of units, the volume, is developing quite steadily. And for the one calendar year, the
base, that we would like to make further efforts to try to reach our target of 1.15 million units or
more.
Okay. Thank you. If I could just follow up, could you quantify the impact – the negative impact from
foreign exchange? In other words, how much negative impact was generated in Q2?
[Foreign Language] (35:14-36:26)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you for waiting. We do not have the exact number for the three months period. However,
we have this overall figure for the six months, and for the affiliated company in China, the forex –
foreign exchange impact – negative impact is just around ¥10 billion.
Q - Operator
Okay, great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Operator
We will now pause for a moment to receive the first question.
Okay, thank you very much for taking this call. My question is on your forecast and what that
implies for your second half? And it implies over ¥500 billion full half and half in operating profitscompared to the first half. And I wonder what are the key factors that will lead to that full end
profits? And are any of them one-off?
[Foreign Language] (38:10-39:01)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Throughout the year, our forecast was ¥1.7 trillion and when you calculate the latter half amounts
to ¥580 billion so that compared to the first half, the second half the figure represent minus or
the reduction by ¥530 billion.
[Foreign Language] (39:28-40:04)
Well, there are different factors behind this. Well, especially, as I mentioned in my presentation,
the foreign exchange rates have fluctuated adversely. In other words, during the latter half, the
assumption of the exchange rate is ¥100 to the $1 – per $1 and ¥110 per €1. And compared to the
first half, in this second half, the foreign exchange rates, the euro as well as the dollar as well as
the other currencies are concerned, the, I think, impact is assumed to be negative in our
calculation.
[Foreign Language] (40:45-40:59)
So because of this forex negative impact as compared to the first half, in the second half, outlook
and scenario is drafted based upon this assumption that there should be a reduction by ¥175
billion.
[Foreign Language] (41:15-41:42)
In terms of our sales forecast, we expect that volume, the units are likely to increase slightly.
However, in conjunction to that, the incentive expenses are likely to go up as well because during
the latter half that we are scheduled to have the launch of some new models, which would
require some promotion expenses.
[Foreign Language] (42:10-42:27)
And as to the expenses that we at the timing of the Motorola switch for some new models so
that the depreciation costs are likely to increase as well compared to the first half, and that
additional depreciation cost is estimated to be around ¥70 billion.
[Foreign Language] (42:52-43:04)
And also this is a huge trend observed in many years that the general expenses are likely to
increase in the latter half of the year compared to the first half of the year.
[Foreign Language] (43:19-43:33)
With regard to the quality related costs, compared to the first half, it is likely to increase in the
latter half according to our plans.
[Foreign Language] (43:45-44:03)
So, we have taken into account the factors of foreign exchange rates as well as the likely, the
increase of the expenses, and those potential impacts are taken into account. As a result, we
expect that compared to the first half, in the second half there would be the substantial reduction
of the income.[Foreign Language] (44:29-44:52)
With regard to the problems related to foreign exchange rates, of course, there's not much for
us to do at all. However, with regard to the increasing expenses, we would like to utilize our
money more efficiently so that we would like to adapt our efforts and measures to improve the
profitability.
Q - Operator
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Thank you very much for the second opportunity. I was just wondering if you could give us
please an update on the current state of the discussions with Suzuki. And should that relationship
emerge, what do you see is the key benefits to Toyota from such a relationship with Suzuki?
Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (45:54-46:26)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you for the question. With regard to our relation with Suzuki, we just now are on the
starting line to start to talk about it. So, we will start to consider the future outlook from now on.
[Foreign Language] (46:43-47:25)
We are currently thinking about the potential corporation in the field of environment, safety and
information technology and in these areas, I think, the standalone effort of one company might
hinder the speed of that development, as well resources-wise it's quite difficult. Therefore we
would like to consider openly the possible collaboration with the other automotive companies as
well as the other companies in general to consider the corporation.
So, that we could really have the technology – a collective technology from different companies
as well as wisdom and knowledge, so that we would like to create the colleagues and allies in
that collaboration, so that we would like to build such relationship and enhance collaboration.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you. Would I be fair to rule out any potential for Toyota taking an equity stake in
Suzuki at this point?
[Foreign Language] (48:38-49:02)
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
At present, as of now, we are not at all thinking about that possibility. We are not starting this
negotiation or talk based upon the potential equity relationship.
Q - OperatorA - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
It seems there are no more questions. So, this concludes today's conference call now. If you
require further information, please contact our IR representatives in New York or London. Thank
you very much for joining us today. Good-bye.