Q1 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
Now, I would like to hand over to Mr. Hachisuka from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the fiscal year 2018 first
quarter. I'm `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation. Today,
we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Senior Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of Toyota
Motor Corporation; and Ms. Ota, our interpreter with us.
The agenda with today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss
Toyota's earning results. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome
to ask questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page 2 of
today's presentation material and complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page 3. Therefore, both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the first quarter of the fiscal year ending March 2018.
Let me start with slide 5. Compared to the first quarter of the previous fiscal year, consolidated
vehicle sales increased by 43,000 units to 2.215 million units. This was a result of strong sales in
Japan, North America and Europe, driven by new models.
Please look at slide 6. Consolidated financial results for the first quarter were: net revenues of
¥7,047.6 billion, operating income of ¥574.2 billion, pre-tax income of ¥679.3 billion, and net
income of ¥613.0 billion.
Using slide 7, I'd like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year.
Despite the positive effects of cost reduction efforts, operating income was down ¥67.9 billion,mainly due to the effect of marketing activities and an increase in expenses. Excluding the overall
impact of foreign exchange rates and flat variation gains and losses, operating income fell by ¥25
billion.
Next, I'd like to break down operating income by region, please see slide 8. In Japan, vehicle
sales increased by 33,000 units year-on-year to 544,000 units driven by new models such as the
Roomy, Tank and C-HR. Operating income increased by ¥29.7 billion to ¥319.9 billion mainly due to
the weaker sales growth and cost reduction efforts.
Please look at slide 9. In North America, vehicle sales grew by 8,000 units to 723,000 year-on-
year. Operating income was ¥88.8 billion, down ¥76.5 billion compared to the first quarter of the
previous fiscal year. This was largely a result of marketing expenses. Although, we have increased
marketing expenses in response to the current market and sales environment, we intend to
control them adequately following the launch of the new Camry.
The new Camry which is being rolled out in the States this summer, is the first model with all new
TNGA platform and powertrain. It delivered significantly improved driving, safety and fuel
efficiency performance in addition to an attractive design. We hope many more customers will
enjoy the Camry.
In Europe, on slide 10, vehicle sales grew by 18,000 units year-on-year to 240,000 units on the
back of solid sales of the brand-new C-HR. Operating income was up ¥11.9 billion to ¥20.5 billion.
This was mainly a result of increased vehicle sales and cost reduction efforts.
Please look at slide 11. In Asia, vehicle sales were down 21,000 units year-on-year to 363,000
units. Operating income decreased by ¥21.7 billion to ¥102.8 billion, largely due to the effect of
ForEx rates and the decreased vehicle sales.
Please move on to slide 12. In other regions, overall vehicle sales for the first quarter were
345,000 units, up 5,000 units year-on-year, driven by Central and South America and Oceania.
Operating income increased by ¥11.3 billion to ¥39.5 billion, mainly due to the impact of ForEx
rates and vehicle sales growth.
Next, please look at slide 13 on financial services. Operating income, excluding swap valuation
gains and losses for the first quarter declined ¥6.4 billion year-on-year to ¥75.1 billion. Although
the lending balance grew, there was an increase in costs related to loan losses and remarketing
of returned leased vehicles.
On slide 14. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the first quarter increased by ¥47.8
billion year-on-year to ¥137.8 billion. This was primarily a result of solid performance of our
affiliated companies in Japan.
Now, please look at slide 15 on liquid assets. At the end of June, net liquid assets reached
¥7,872.8 billion. We remain committed to investment in R&D and CapEx and shareholder return. In
addition, we are aware of the necessity to consider all options, including M&A, as a mean to carve
out our future.
Now, I'd like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year ending March 2018. Please
look at slide 17. We maintain our initial forecast for the consolidated vehicle sales at 8.9 billion
units. By region, vehicle sales reversed up in Japan and Europe and down in North America and
Asia.Please look at slide 18. From July, we adapt ForEx rate assumption of ¥110 per dollar and ¥125 per
euro, making the full year assumption ¥110 per dollar and ¥124 per euro. Based on this, our
forecast for consolidated financial performance are: net revenues of ¥28,500 billion; operating
income of ¥1,850 billion; pre-tax income of ¥2,050 billion; and net income of ¥1,750 billion.
Please look at slide 19. Our latest forecast for operating income is now ¥1,850 billion, up ¥250
billion from our initial forecast. This is due to the weaker yen assumption and additional effects of
marketing activities and the cost reduction efforts that we have identified and factored in.
Next, please see slide 20 for the year-on-year comparison of operating income, excluding the
impact of a foreign exchange rate and swap valuation gains and losses, operating income is still
expected to decrease by ¥270 billion. However, we will strive to minimize this by all possible
means.
Please look at slide 21, which summarize our discussion to avoid two consecutive years on
earnings decline. We remain determined to implement further profit improvement measures.
Please turn to slide 22, at the same time, as communicated by Akio Toyoda, our President, at the
year-end financial announcement in May and at the AGM in June, we are committed to enhancing
our competitiveness this fiscal year. Our plan is to actively engage in offence to read the
competition in the future; defense that focuses on the immediate business challenge; and work
innovation that is not constrained by the way of the past. In this way, we will continue to
strengthen our mid to long-term competitiveness, while accelerating earnings improvement for
this fiscal year.
This concludes my presentation. Thank you very much for your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Now, we're ready to take your questions, but only up to two questions per person
please. Further questions may be possible later, if time allows. You don't have to name
yourselves. Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Hachisuka. We will now pause for a moment to receive the first question.
Thank you very much. The first question I had – and thank for the call this morning. The first
question I had was on your remarking performance for vehicles coming off of lease. You
highlighted that was a pressure in financial services. I'm just curious, if you could give us more
color around what that performance was by segment. If it's only pressure in the car segment or
has that pressure started to seep into the CUV and potentially truck segments as well?
Thank you very much, for your question. I think the gist of your question relates to the possible
residual value loss incurred. As to the data of the last three months in the USA, the – overall the
loss is on the decline. For example, per unit loss have declined as well as the total number of the
returned vehicles after the lease also have been decreased. So, I think as you pointed out as to
the specific segment, passenger car segment is adversely affecting our performance.
Okay. Thank you. And then, a second question. There were conflicting data points in the U.S. on
average transaction prices increasing, but incentives also increasing at a faster rate. I'm justcurious how you would characterize the current competitive environment, for pricing in the United
States, also maybe similarly by car, CUV and truck segments?
As to the U.S. market, the situation, that the over market size this year compared to that of the
previous year seems to be contracting, getting smaller. And in the based upon the data of the
first half of this year the estimate for the – throughout the year of the market size is around 17
million units.
Touching upon the breakdown of the market mix or the segment, the truck and SUV percentage
ratio is increasing further. On the other hand, the passenger car percentage is declining.
Taking into account, this kind of market condition, especially in order to support the passenger
car sale, the per unit incentive is increasing.
Especially in this first quarter, compared to year-on-year comparison, the incentive has markedly
and substantially increased. However, as I mentioned in my presentation around this August, new
Camry – all new Camry is launched across the country in the U.S.
Especially this new Camry has such the competitive edge, therefore per unit the incentive, I think
could be and will be properly controlled.
I'm sorry. Just one follow-up, could you comment on the pricing and incentive activity in the CUV
and trucks segment as well? Thank you.
Frankly speaking, gradually and slightly compared to the previous year, incentive in this segment
is increasing as well. However compared to the incentive provided in the passenger car category,
the incentive value is curtailed and suppressed in this category.
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Hello. Thank you very much for the call. Just to kind of the follow-up on North America. There
was a sharp profit decline in the first quarter. You already mentioned incentives, I just wondered if
you could give us more details also on maybe on the volume and mix contribution and expenses
and the impact of financial services on profit – in profits in North America? That's the first
question.
The second is the production cost savings, your forecast for positive contribution for the full year
is ¥100 billion, so you slightly raise that, but you already reached ¥50 billion in the first quarter and
commodity prices seem to be weakening rather than increasing. Can you maybe also give us
more details and elaborate on where you're coming for the production – further product cost
savings? Thank you.
Thank you for your question. I'd like to now explain the factors involved in the increase and
decrease of the income in the North American segment.
First of all, in this first quarter, the major contributor which brought the adverse impact upon this
declining income is the increase of the marketing expenses. And so, the majority of this ¥76.5
billion is due to this increased incentive, as well as the so-called market expenses.And as you pointed out that the model mix of the sale, I think, contributed to this increase, the
incentive, as well as the marketing expenses, because the ratio or the weight of the passenger
car, which needs more incentive increased in this quarter.
Another factor contributing to this declining income in the North America is the slightly weakening
Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar, as well as the slightly reduced income for the financial
segment.
The second question that you have raised is this situation related to the cost reduction or
improvement. And in the Q1, the ¥50 billion improvement is made; on the other hand, throughout
the year, the fiscal year, the target is ¥100 billion. So what is the ratio or the correlation?
As you pointed out properly that during the first quarter, this cost improvement, the progress was
quite substantial against the overall assumption, considering the fiscal year assumption.
I would like you to understand the situation that, during the latter half of the last fiscal year, the
new model, the C-HR, was launched. And then it has made a contribution to improve the gross
income profit. And then, I think that good ripple effect is still being felt in this quarter as well, so
that – more than we had expected in the year-round outlook. This particular quarter, the progress
of the improvement seems to be the quite expedited.
And another factor for this term is that our year-round outlook assumption for the cost reduction
is ¥100 billion. And then, however, on the other side of this coin, actually we were assuming that
the material cost – the procurement costs are likely to go up, which is about ¥200 billion increase
of the cost. So by netting all these factors, we assume that in this fiscal year, ¥100 billion
improvement is likely to be achieved. And so, per annum, we continue our effort of annual
reduction of the cost by ¥300 billion, and this effort is still ongoing.
Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question please.
Q - Operator
Hi. (31:16). Thank you for the call. Just firstly on U.S. volumes, why are you expecting a full-year
decline when we saw a rise in Q1 and you have the new Camry coming up soon. So it suggests
that you're going to see quite a decline from here on a year-on-year basis. So could you just talk
us through that decline and what models you're expecting to lead that decline for the rest of the
year, please?
Compared to the previous year, this fiscal year outlook has been adjusted down to – downward
by 40,000 units and that's year round assumption incorporates and takes into account this first
quarter assumption and performance as well.
Unfortunately, when we look this performance of the U.S. car market during the first half of this
year, based upon some monthly result, it's not likely to reach 17 million units.
Therefore, our assumption for the U.S. market for this year has been downwardly adjusted from –
to the range of around 17 million or to 17.2 million.
Taking into account this market condition that segments like Camry now have a new model,
therefore the volume is likely to increase according to assumption. On the other hand, the otherpassenger cars like Corolla or Prius, we assume that the volume is likely to go down.
Okay. Thank you. And just my second question is actually on the decision with respect to the
Mazda partnership, could you perhaps just outline briefly why that decision was made. And I'm
particularly interested in why the timing that seems like an agreement which could have been
made any time in the last few years, I'm just interested in why now is the best time for that?
Thank you for your question. Yes in May 2015, we have signed the memorandum of
understanding as to this agreement on the corporation or the partnership.
And ever since that, every month we had mutual exchanges to know each other about our
personnel, technology and corporate culture, and very carefully and very sincerely that we have
this broad range consolidation to promote the technical exchanges and enhance understanding.
So based upon this very steady and the consolidation between the two parties over the years on
collaboration in partnership we decided to – this time to announce and confirm this new
agreement between the two parties on the capital as well as business collaboration and
partnership.
And I'm sure that today's announcement on this alliance will further strengthen our – the
sustainable relationship in a more developed manner and then further accelerate this alliance in
the future. So I'm sure today's announcement is the first important step forward.
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Edward Ritchie from Manulife. I was also going to ask a question about the Mazda tie-up. I
guess, my question is why the 5% capital tie-up and did you – was there any consideration of the
full takeover of the business? What is the reason behind the 5% capital tie-up?
As to this capital tie-up that we are equal partners – parties, and then we'd respect each other's
autonomy and independence.
So mutually, we now have the equity, yeah, mutually with each other. So, we would like to achieve
many things together as announced today. And together, we will like to be seriously engaged in
those projects. And then so, today, we have really declared our intention and our decision on
both points.
Okay. And then, in terms of the new U.S. plant that has been announced. Can you confirm
whether that's solely for building electric vehicles, what are you expecting to produce in that
plant?
First of all in the new plant, our plan is to produce Corolla as our model.
However in the future, we would like to consider the possibilities of building other segment
vehicles that includes the electric vehicle that you have mentioned as well. So we would like to
enhance or expand the scope of this production.
Thank you very much, and then let me repeat the content. Let me repeat this content thisThe 150,000 units of production by Toyota – on Toyota line and 150,000 units on the Mazda line
and the total investment planned is $16 million – or the ¥1.6 billion. And 4,000 people are
scheduled to be hired.
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next please.
Q - Operator
Hi. I have two questions. The first question is: on page 14 you have a significant increase in your
equity in earnings of affiliated companies especially in Japan. So I just want to understand, where
that is coming from, because I've looked at, kind of, your subsidiaries including Denso, Aisin. It just
seems like there is something in here that's unaccounted for? And then my second question is
can you just help me understand, in your first quarter quality expense, how much is booked or
reversed, and for the full year what are you expecting to come out?
Excuse me, did you say quality expense?
Yes. Yes, quality expense.
As to the first part of your question on this equity base affiliated companies, as you pointed out
especially the companies in Japan have made a contribution to push-up this income.
Especially at Denso or the Toyota Industries and as well as the Toyota Tsusho, those are the
affiliated companies made great contribution to improve this performance.
As to your second part of the question related to this first quarter of the quality expenses as well
as the overall year-round quality expenses.
In this quarter for this three months period, the quality expense is increased by ¥5 billion.
In the meantime, this year-round assumption outlook is the rather the reduction of this quality
expense by ¥100 billion.
Okay. Thank you. Can I just quickly follow-up just on the first question, which is the Denso, you
said Denso industries, those two are the big contributors. Could you just give a rough sense of
how much each one of those contributed, or the top three that contributed to the ¥40 billion or
so of increase, please? Thank you.
As to the specific break down and exact figure of contribution by each company, I would like to
refrain from making a statement. However, the top three companies are the affiliated companies
that made contribution for this group performance is Aisin AW, and Denso, and then the Toyota
Industries.
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next please.
Q - OperatorHi, good afternoon or good evening. And thank you for taking my question. Can you provide us
with your solid-state battery development and electric vehicle take rate assumptions over the
next 10 years for the industry. This could be a huge breakthrough for not only you guys, but for
the industry in general. And also on the solid state-battery that you guys were developing, is this
the technology that you'd be open to licensing to other OEMs? Thank you.
Thank you for your question. Yes, the solid-state battery development have been the project of
R&D for many years.
And our target date of this commercialization of this technology is around 2020. And then, in
conjunction, we are devoting ourselves for R&D of the production, engineering and so forth.
However, as for the specific commercialization product plan, our licensing agreement or licensing
provision to other companies and so on, the details and so forth are not yet available, or we are
not in the position to announce that for the time being. Sorry about this.
Great. Thank you so much.
Hello? Can you hear me?
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Yes.
Operator
Yes.
Thank you. I wanted to ask a question on slide 22, the enhancement of competitiveness. You
make some references to shifting resources for AI and next-gen vehicles and I was wondering if
perhaps you could quantify or give some scope in terms of the change of investment, because of
course you've been doing that for some time?
And then, the second question relates to the AI Ventures fund, The Toyota AI Ventures fund and
Mirai Creation Investment LP. Could you give us some scope as to the structure of these
investment funds and the capital that's being committed to them?
Thank you very much for your question. For the page 22, the as you have asked us that we are
shifting R&D resources to crucial fields including the autonomous driving AI and next generation
environmental vehicles.
And, with regard to, so called, the crucial areas, we have dedicated about 20% of our R&D
budget or the fund to these areas up until the last year. However, this fiscal year, we intend to
increase this percentage to 25%.
And as to your second part of the question about the Toyota AI Ventures fund and where the
money has been committed to and invested, specifically in Nauto, as well as SLAMcore and
institutional robotics. These are the three recipients of this investment.
And for the Mirai associate fund, specifically we have invested into Getaround and Uber and
(00:56:30) and others.
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting DivisionNext please? That's it? Hello?
Q - Operator
Hi. I just had two questions. One was, I think you have – I know that your treasury shares didn't
really changed this quarter, I think you have a ¥250 billion share buyback plan and I was
wondering in terms of the shareholder returns is that going to be then – we'll probably see that in
the second quarter of this year and given your strong free cash flow, should we assume that
you'll be re-upping it even further into the second half?
And then the second question I had was I saw that – I noticed that your equity in your Asian
subsidiary forecast, you revised down your estimates for the volumes, but it seems like you're
taking a fairly good results coming out of China and other Asian countries. So maybe just talk a
little bit about what you're seeing in Southeast Asia and China? Thank you.
We thank you for your question, as to the first part of your question of this share buyback and the
– we have announced already this upper limit of the buyback over ¥250 billion and we are steadily
implementing this buyback.
And as to this, our plan for this share buyback after the mid-point of the fiscal year, we have not
decided the plan yet. However, as we have explained previously that we will consider the
shareholders return as well as this efficient utilization of the capital, we would like to consider this
nimbly and flexibly to acquire and buyback shares.
The second part of your question relates to the outlook of the income for the Asian segment?
As I explained to you earlier that during the first quarter, it was reduced by ¥21.7 billion, so it was
not performing so well.
For example the Chinese renminbi has been weaker against U.S. dollar on the other hand the
Thai baht have become stronger against U.S. dollar and so this kind of a fluctuating foreign
exchange rate had a negative impact upon the performance in the Asian segment.
The actually the – in Asian segment, we are very actively and positively implementing the activities
to improve our profitability. And for example the marketing and sales expenses should be
curtailed and then we should increase the sales as well as the cost should be improved as well.
So, by implementing those measures to improve the performance, we hope to markedly
improve our outlook of the next term. And so in the Q1 it was a ¥20 billion negative impact and
that was the four times more than the assumption, but in the next quarter we will not have any
such – we do not expect repetitions of such a poor performance.
The good performance of the Chinese business, I'm sure will positively contribute to the better
consolidated operating income of this Asian segment on the whole. And then I think, it will also
have a positive impact upon the equity-based investment, the profit and loss figures, thanks to
the Chinese good performance as well.
Thank you. Just a follow-up on the share buyback, I noticed in your cash flow statement that you
didn't really have any share buybacks. So, should we assume that, that will occur all in the second
quarter then, the ¥250 billion?
Yes, what you have observed is correct. In the first quarter figure, this ¥250 billion figure for the
share buyback is not accounted for.Okay. So, should we assume that's going to happen then in the second quarter?
Yes, what you pointed out is true, correct.
All right. Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you very much. It seems there are no more questions. So, this concludes today's
conference call now. If you require further information, please contact our IR representatives in
New York or London. Thank you very much for joining us today. Goodbye.