Q2 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line remain muted until
the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the request
of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Hachisuka from Toyota who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the Fiscal-Year 2018 Second
Quarter. I'm `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Senior Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation; and Ms. Morita (1:03), our interpreter with us.
The agenda with today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss
today's earnings results. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome
to ask questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page two
of today's presentation material, and the complete cautionary statement concerning insider
trading is included on page three. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the first half of the fiscal year, which will end in March 2018.
Let me start with slide five; compared to the first half of the previous fiscal year, consolidated
vehicle sales increased by 26,000 units to 4.389 million units. This was a result of robust sales in
Japan and Europe.
Please look at slide six. Consolidated financial result for the first half of this fiscal year were net
revenues of ¥14.1912 trillion, operating income of ¥1.0965 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥1.2521 trillion
and a net income of ¥1.0713 trillion.
Using slide seven, I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-
year. Despite a positive effect of yen depreciation and the cost reduction efforts, operatingincome decreased by ¥20.3 billion, mainly due to the effect of marketing activities and increase in
expenses. Excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and
losses, operating income fell by ¥110 billion.
Next, I'd like to elaborate on operating income for each region, please see slide eight. In Japan,
vehicle sales increased by 9,000 units year-on-year to 1,087,000 units. Operating income was up
¥156 billion year-on-year to ¥641.7 billion, mainly due to the effect of foreign exchange rates and
the cost reduction efforts.
Please see slide nine. In North America, vehicle sales were 1,396,000 units, barely changed year-
on-year. Operating income was ¥141.1 billion down ¥155.6 billion compared to the first half of the
previous fiscal year. This was largely a result of an increases in marketing expenses combined
with a temporary decline in vehicle production related it to the Camry switchover.
In Europe, our vehicle sales grew up 35,000 units year-on-year to 469,000 units on the back of
solid sales of the brand new C-HR. Operating income was up ¥4.4 billion to ¥39 billion. This was
mainly a result of increased vehicle sales and cost reduction efforts.
Please look at slide 11. In Asia, vehicle sales were down 21,000 units year-on-year to 744,000
units. Operating income decreased by ¥6.7 billion to ¥212.9 billion, largely due to the effects of
ForEx rates.
Please move on to slide 12. In other regions, overall vehicle sales went up 7,000 units year-on-
year to 693,000 units, driven by Oceania and Central & South America. Operating income
increased by ¥16.6 billion to ¥71.8 billion, mainly due to the impact of ForEx rates and the
marketing efforts.
Next, please see slide 13 on the operating income for financial services. Operating income,
excluding swap valuation gains and losses for the first half of this fiscal year was up ¥5.8 billion
year-on-year to ¥144 billion, mostly due to an increase of the lending balance.
Next, please look at slide 14 on shareholder return. With regard to the interim dividend on shares
of common stock, we plan to make it ¥100 per share, the same amount as the last fiscal year. We
will continue to pay dividends stably and sustainably using the consolidated payout ratio of 30%
as a benchmark.
Please look at slide 15 on share buyback. We plan to repurchase up to ¥250 billion or 45 million
shares of common stock. We intend to continue flexible share repurchase as a means of
improving shareholder return and capital efficiency. As a result, together with the interim dividend
and the total shareholder return for the first half of this fiscal year will be up to ¥547.1 billion and
the total payout ratio will be maximum of 51%.
Now, I'd like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year. Please look at slide 17. Our
latest forecast of consolidated vehicle sales for the full fiscal year are 8.95 million units, up
50,000 units from our previous forecast at the first quarter results reporting. We have improved
our sales plan for Europe and other regions.
Please see slide 18. We adapt the ForEx assumptions of ¥110 per dollar and ¥130 per euro from
October, which makes the full-year assumptions ¥111 per dollar and ¥128 per euro. Based on this,
our forecast for consolidated financial performance for the full fiscal year are net revenues of
¥28.500 trillion, operating income of ¥2 trillion, pre-tax income ¥2.250 trillion and net income of
¥1.950 trillion.Please see slide 19, which compare the latest operating income forecast for this fiscal year with
the previous forecast at first quarter reporting. Operating income forecast has been revised up
by ¥150 billion to ¥2 trillion. In addition to adjusting the ForEx rate assumptions to the weaker yen,
we have factored in additional profit improvement anticipated from cost reduction and marketing
efforts and reduction of expenses.
Next, please see slide 20, which compare the latest operating income forecast for this fiscal year
with the result of the previous fiscal year. Operating income, excluding the overall impact of ForEx
rate and swap valuation gains and losses is now expected to improve by ¥150 billion compared
to our initial forecast. Compared year-on-year, however, it is still expected to be down ¥185
billion. Under the challenging business environment, which is also affected by rising low material
prices, we will strive further to improve the underlying profitability.
Please see slide 21. As has been communicated since May, we are focusing on slowly enhancing
our competitiveness during this fiscal year while reforming the ways we work to address the
challenges identified under in-house company system. We are accelerating the research and
development of advanced and cutting-edge technologies. In this way, we will continue to engage
in actions for both defense and offense.
In the final part of my presentation, I'd like to mention the Toyota Investor Summit, an IR event
held at the new headquarter of Toyota Motor North America in Plano, Texas, in the United States.
In his presentation, Akio Toyoda, our President, discussed Toyota's initiative and strategy to lead
mobility innovation for the future in the following areas: manufacturing, next-generation
powertrains, connected vehicles, autonomous driving. Please see the following slides which
summarize the relevant discussions. The full presentation is available for replay on our website,
as indicated in the footnote of slide 27. Please take a look at it when you can spare time.
This concludes my presentation. Thank you for your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you, Mr. Otake. Now, we will gladly take your questions, but only up to two questions per
person please. Further question may be possible later if time allows. You don't have to name
yourselves. Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Hachisuka. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
Thank you very much. Two questions. The first is on the change in guidance as it relates to the
cost items. They were negative in the second quarter and for the full year you're expecting a
favorable turn for both expenses and marketing. And I was wondering if you could give us a
sense geographically of where you expect to see that improvement? And I have a follow-on
question.
[Foreign Language] (14:49 – 15:16)
[Foreign Language] (15:18 – 15:39)
Thank you for your question. When we made the announcement this time with respect to the full-
year outlook of operating income, we increased that guidance by ¥150 billion from the previously
announced figure of ¥1.850 trillion to on the full-year basis at ¥2 trillion.[Foreign Language] (16:04 – 16:25)
Allow me to give you some detailed breakdown of that. First of all, relating the impact from
current foreign exchange rates, for the full-year basis, we changed the exchange rate assumption
moving toward the depreciation of the yen, made the revision to that extent and that proved to
be positive ¥65 billion improving the operating profits.
[Foreign Language] (16:46 – 16:59)
Secondly, with respect to the benefits of our cost reduction efforts, compared with the guidance
we gave when the first quarter results were announced, we were able to add another ¥20 billion
to the benefits or effect of cost improvement.
[Foreign Language] (17:16 – 17:33)
As a result of that, with respect to the outlook on the full-year basis of cost improvement efforts
compared with the same period previous year, we are likely to see ¥120 billion in the benefits of
cost savings.
[Foreign Language] (17:50 – 18:23)
Furthermore, opposite side of this cost improvement benefits of ¥120 billion, we have some
negative influence coming in that relates to the surge or substantial increase in the raw material
cost to the tune of ¥200 billion for this period which is incorporated in our guidance or outlook. So
combining together, the actual benefit stemming from cost improvement efforts is likely to be on
the full-year basis in excess of ¥320 billion, and that is exactly outlook we currently have for the
full year.
[Foreign Language] (19:05 – 19:26)
Going back to the upward revision by ¥150 billion, the third factor relates to the efforts made on
the marketing and sales side. And we've been able to accelerate the benefits stemming from
marketing efforts, adding ¥15 billion, stemming from that.
[Foreign Language] (19:48 – 20:12)
The largest factor behind that relates to the upward revision or forecast of our sales units of
50,000 units. Especially in relation to North America, there is a risk factor of the actual marketing
expenses increasing further. But even including that risk factor, we were able to have a clear
outlook of making additional marketing efforts benefit of ¥15 billion.
[Foreign Language] (20:41 – 20:53)
Furthermore, as the specific content of the upward revision we made for this period, we also
included ¥50 billion positive impact from more efficient use of the expenses overall, so that's the
last point.
[Foreign Language] (21:08 – 21:35)
Specific guidance include, first of all, so-called quality-related expenses. The actual payment
relating to recalls, among others, decreased. That resulted in decrease in expense spending of
approximately ¥30 billion. And in addition to that, through efficient use of the information-related
expenses, among others, we were able to achieve reduction of that expense by around ¥20
billion.Thank you very much. My follow-on question relates to the new partnership with Mazda and
Denso for some of the new investments that the three of you have to make. And I'm wondering
if you could talk about two things, one is the capital structure and number two if the expenses
related to these initiatives for Toyota will flow through that venture or will they be on your
consolidated income statements?
[Foreign Language] (22:43 – 23:12)
[Foreign Language] (23:12 – 23:30)
First of all, the capital structure of the new company that we announced this time is as follows,
90% owned by Toyota, 5% equity coming from Mazda and 5% from Denso.
[Foreign Language] (23:45 – 24:18)
Another aspect of your question related to the expenses of this new company and how that is
going to be reflected in Toyota's financial results. First of all, the company has just been set up,
and at the initial stage it consists only of approximately 40 employees. And therefore, the
company is not likely to have any meaningful significant impact in terms of expenses on the
consolidated financial results of Toyota.
Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (24:50)
Hi. Yeah. So can I come back on the cost reductions? In the first half I think you managed savings
of ¥100 billion. Could you split that out, please, between lower costs and the impact to raw
material? And forecast for the first year of ¥120 billion means there's only ¥20 billion left for the
second half. So could you split the second half assumption between cost saving and raw material
impact as well, please?
[Foreign Language] (25:32 – 26:01)
[Foreign Language] (26:02 – 26:32)
With respect to the cost improvement activities we conducted in the first half of this year, the net
benefits coming from that was ¥100 billion, but that includes ¥70 billion in increase and surge in
raw materials expenses. And therefore, combined, during the first half of this year, ¥170 billion
worth of cost improvement activities were implemented.
[Foreign Language] (27:02 – 27:27)
On the full-year basis, the net improvement activities totaled ¥120 billion. Specifically, for the full
year, the cost improvement activities totaled ¥320 billion, but in the background of that was
higher raw material prices of ¥200 billion included in this outlook.
[Foreign Language] (27:54 – 28:18)
And therefore, the cost improvement benefits that was mentioned earlier of ¥20 billion for the
second half can be broken down into cost improvement activities generating ¥150 billion, but that
was offset by negative ¥130 billion stemming from increase in raw materials expenses and
therefore that resulted in the net improvement activities of ¥20 billion.
Thank you. Could you just clarify why raw material impact will be almost twice what it was in the[Foreign Language] (28:59 – 29:05)
[Foreign Language] (29:05 – 29:24)
Right. For the second half, we are expecting increase in prices and cost of various types of raw
materials. However, when it comes to specific transactions involving, for example, steel material
prices, I would like to refrain from responding to that.
Okay. Thank you. And just on the second question, the Japanese unit sales were up in the first
half, but were down quite a lot in the second quarter. Could you comment on what dragged on
the second quarter and also why despite that you've been able to raise your fiscal-year guidance
for Japan units?
[Foreign Language] (30:12 – 30:38)
[Foreign Language] (30:39 – 31:16)
Yes. In the second quarter, the three-month period there compared with the same period last
year, the volume in Japan decreased by 24,000 units. This is due to the fact that on the same
period previous year that is between July and September of last year, because of the recovery
efforts made in production to recover from the earthquake in Japan among others that
represented about rather a large number of our shipments stemming from recovery activities.
And, therefore, in comparison with that period, the second quarter of this year represented a
reduction in volumes.
[Foreign Language] (32:02 – 32:25)
Your second question related to the reason why we are expected increasing the volume in Japan
for the full year basis. During this period, the Daihatsu brand vehicle sales are very strong –
continued to be very strong. And we factored that in to our guidance and thus increased the
Japan volume by 10,000 units.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
I'd like to ask you a follow-on question. Over the course of the last two months, a number of your
global competitors have – like you talked about the initiatives in autonomy, mobility, connectivity
and electrification, there's been a very wide ranging estimated impact on the financial
performance of these companies in their estimates and their discussion ranging from
improvements in margins, to flat margins, to lower margins. And I'm wondering if you could offer
a way that you would encourage investors to think about the impact of Toyota's initiatives in
these areas over the next several years? Should it be a headwind to margin, should it be net-
neutral, or are there opportunities? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (34:02 – 34:53)
[Foreign Language] (34:54 – 35:13)First of all, from the short-term perspective, we are very proactively spending R&D-related
expenses to next generation technological developments, sort of, areas you have just mentioned
in your question.
[Foreign Language] (35:29 – 35:44)
For the current fiscal year, we are expecting to spend ¥1.060 trillion for the year for this R&D,
which means increase by ¥22.5 billion in R&D-related investments.
[Foreign Language] (36:01 – 37:01)
As you have just pointed out, the electrification, autonomous driving, connectivity, those are the
areas we consider would be supporting our growth in the future to which we are rather
proactively making investments and spending expenses. But at the same time, we are investing
in research and development for conventional type of, for example, model change among
others. But in those areas, we are trying to enhance the usage of investment funds more
efficiently. For example, by reducing the number of our prototypes to be produced before those
model switches.
And therefore, in essence, by enhancing the efficiency of existing investments into conventional
type of areas thus releases resources from that and creating resources to be used for new
investment areas, which is to support growth going forward. And that is what we are doing right
now in terms of our R&D spending. And therefore, in essence, in those areas which will support
our future growth, where we have very strong objectives and motivation to go forward are
receiving continued investment of a rather substantial amount of research and development
money.
[Foreign Language] (38:31 – 39:15)
We are making proactive planning and also sowing seeds through investing in those new
technology areas in order to create affluent and also enriching a mobility-based society. And we
intend to surely nurture those investments and seeds that we are sowing right now.
And therefore, although there is no specific number that I can cite at this juncture that could
indicate in any way the potential outlook of what sort of sales would we produced by those
investments in what sort of timeframe, but without a doubt as the enriched mobility-based
society is being created, I'm confident that positive impact will be generated from those
investments into our financial results as well because we intend to pursue every effort and
activities to ensure that.
Thank you. (40:18) if I could ask a follow-on to that. I guess I understand you're saying that to-date
you've been able to derive efficiency in your core business to offset the impact of the spending
on these initiatives. And does that, over the near- to mid-term, will be the goal of the company is
to not see a net increase in R&D as a percent of sales related to these activities?
[Foreign Language] (40:49 – 41:18)
[Foreign Language] (41:19 – 41:55)
Right. As much as possible, we intend to generate resources by enhancing the usage of R&D
investments for current convention activities, including the model change related investments so
that those resources can be used for future investment. But at the same time, we have a strong
objective and desire to continue making those research and development for the sake ofcreating affluent, mobility-based society in the future. And, therefore, the aggregate amount of
the R&D expenses we expect will continue to be in excess of ¥1 trillion.
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Can you talk about quality costs? I understand that this year you have ¥130 billion of tailwind. How
much more is there to come in the following years? I understand that I think at the end of last
year you had about ¥900 billion of absolute quality expense provisions, which is something like
3% of revenue. So, just trying to get a sense for how much more unwinding there is.
[Foreign Language] (43:25 – 43:53)
[Foreign Language] (43:53 – 44:20)
Thank you for your question. Right last year, the quality-related expenses totaled ¥900 billion.
And compared with that, we are expecting reduction of those expenses by around ¥130 billion
for the current fiscal year, meaning the level of ¥770 billion.
Right. And just a follow-up on that, just trying to get a sense for, as a percent of sales, that's still a
large amount compared to some of your peers. Just trying to get a feel for what is the right
amount of quality provision, the 2? Is it 2.5%? Is it 1.5%? Just trying to get a feel.
[Foreign Language] (45:07 – 45:27)
[Foreign Language] (45:28 – 46:14)
Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I do not have the number that could indicate the appropriate
level of quality-related expenses as a percentage of sales. As I mentioned earlier, for the current
fiscal year, that expense is on the level of ¥770 billion. But in the past, there were periods in which
we were able to address the quality-related costs at fewer allowances. Right now, through TNGA
and other activities, we are building the quality into the products and further improving the quality
of products. And therefore, through those efforts, we would like to keep the quality-related costs
as low as – low.
And if I may ask a second question. If I look at your full-year guidance, excluding the benefits of
foreign exchange and quality cost, which I think accounts to about ¥300 billion, so year-on-year is
down about ¥300 billion, which I think probably more reflects your core business. If you look
forward, I guess, just qualitatively, would be helpful to kind of get a sense for where you see the
opportunity for OP growth? Is that more on the volume side or more on the expenses side?
Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (47:45 – 48:28)
[Foreign Language] (48:28 – 48:58)
Thank you for your question. True, as you pointed out, looking at this full-year outlook, we
mentioned that the currency had the positive impact of ¥175 billion and quality-related expenses
¥130 billion. So, those two are position factors. So, combined, the improvement in the outlook of[Foreign Language] (49:46 – 49:56)
Having said that, if I may mention that my understanding of this quality-related expenses is that
through our serious efforts to improve qualities overall, the quality-related expenses were
reduced, so that's a result of those efforts. And therefore, qualitatively shall I say, it is by nature
different from the tailwinds for example coming from exchange rate changes among others.
That's how I understand the situation.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you, next please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Thank you for taking my question. I have two questions. The first one is regarding China. I
wonder if you could tell us your Chinese volumes in the first half and your outlook for the year?
And then also I noticed your equity income in the first half increased from ¥168 billion to ¥235
billion. I wonder if you could tell us the contents of that by region and include a reference to
China. Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (51:15 – 51:38)
[Foreign Language] (51:57 – 52:22)
Thank you for waiting. With respect to the wholesale volume of our Chinese companies in the
first half, that is between January and June, the total unit sales was 635,000 units, which is up
62,000 from the same period last year.
[Foreign Language] (52:43 – 52:56)
About the equity method income as it relates to China in the first half, the Chinese portion of that
is more or less the same as that in the same period previous year.
And if you could just add the outlook for the year for Chinese volume, if possible?
[Foreign Language] (53:20 – 53:24)
[Foreign Language] (53:24 – 53:35)
Yes. On the calendar year basis, we expect the Chinese market to be around 29.4 million units.
[Foreign Language] (53:45 – 54:02)
And for our objective of our own sales, we would like to exceed what is sold in the same period
previous year, that is to say we would like to aim at selling more than 1.21 million units.
[Foreign Language] (54:17 – 54:43)
Just for your reference, the actual sales between January and October this year stood at 1.07
million units, which is a very strong figure indicating 108% over same period last year. And,
therefore, by keeping this momentum, we would like to exceed the outlook that I shared with you
earlier for the full-year sales.Thank you very much. And my last question is regarding your geographic segment for Asia. Your
volumes in the first half were down a bit and your operating profits were also down. I wonder if
you could just touch on the factors that caused the lower volumes and profit in that half for the
Asian region? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (55:38 – 55:51)
[Foreign Language] (55:52 – 56:02)
With respect to the Asian segment, starting with the volume compared with the same period last
year, the volume decreased by 21,000 units.
[Foreign Language] (56:12 – 56:28)
In countries like Indonesia, Taiwan and Thailand, we saw a volume decrease. More specifically, the
models such as Corolla, Vios and Avanza showed decrease in the sales volume.
[Foreign Language] (56:43 – 56:53)
The operating income decreased by ¥6.7 billion excluding the impact of gains and losses of swap
transactions.
[Foreign Language] (57:03 – 57:13)
Despite continued and accumulated benefits coming from cost improvement efforts, a negative
factor was exchange rate fluctuation.
[Foreign Language] (57:25 – 57:43)
Especially in this Asian segment, depreciation of renminbi vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar and also
appreciation of the Thai baht, both turned out to be the negative factor for this segment.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Just to remind you, we have about three minutes left before concluding our
discussion. May I have the final question, please?
Q - Operator
Yes. Thank you. Just a couple of quick questions on marketing activities. First of all, could you
break out the difference between volume and mix for the first half and for the full year? And
second, could you give us some more details as well, please, for the large negative from others
within marketing activities, again both for the first half and for the fiscal year, please?
[Foreign Language] (58:38 – 59:04)
[Foreign Language] (59:04 – 59:15)
For your question, during the first half, the marketing activities result generated negative ¥160
billion in the total negative factors.
[Foreign Language] (59:29 – 59:37)Breakdown of that is increase in the sales volume generated ¥15 billion in positive factor.
[Foreign Language] (59:45 – 60:01)
And the change in the model mix caused ¥80 billion reduction in operating income. For example,
in Japan, the small model such as Roomy and Tank sold well in their proportion in the overall mix
increase.
[Foreign Language] (60:18 – 60:32)
In addition to that, we have some pricing impact that is improvement in prices, especially in the
Central and South America; to respond to inflationary pressure, we raised prices, generating
positive contribution of ¥20 billion.
[Foreign Language] (60:50 – 61:06)
Lastly, the largest negative factor was related to marketing expenses including incentives, which
totaled ¥115 billion in the negative.
[Foreign Language] (61:19 – 61:31)
Moving on to the full-year outlook, the marketing-related expenses reduced the operating
income – it is going to reduce the operating income by ¥210 billion, and allow me to give you the
breakdown of that.
[Foreign Language] (61:47 – 61:58)
First of all, we project 21,000 reduction in the volume, which means reduction by ¥15 billion in
operating income.
[Foreign Language] (62:11 – 62:19)
And we are projecting ¥45 billion in the negative stemming from unfavorable model mix for the
full-year basis.
[Foreign Language] (62:29 – 62:44)
Lastly, in terms of the others, we incorporated in our guidance the negative ¥150 billion stemming
from increase in marketing and other expenses, including incentives.
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you very much. If you require further information, please contact our IR representatives in
New York or London. Thank you very much for joining us today. Goodbye.