Q3 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. `Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is one of the most profitable auto manufacturers in the, we'll now begin the question-and-answer session. We go over
to the line of `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi. `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. at Barclays. Thanks for taking the questions. My first question is looking at the
volumes, obviously, Q3 sort of consolidated numbers ex-China, did dip into negative territory. I
know you were talking just now about the importance of profitability coming over and ahead of
volume growth. But I was just wondering sort of what your outlook is with the new products
coming for the remainder of this year and going into 2018 on the volume side?
And then my `second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000 question is on pricing and whether you've been taking any more sort of
decisive views or taking a sort of a stricter view on pricing and the volume decline has been as a
result of that or is it a normalized outlook on pricing at the moment, not specifically looking at
diesel versus petrol, but just overall BMW pricing?And then, a final sort of more admin question on FX. I was just wondering what you're assuming
for the remainder of this year on the FX side, and then looking into 2018 giving the hedging that
you have in place so far, what your outlook is on the FX front for the group? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Kristina. So, we start with `Harald, please go ahead. and the first question about the volume.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Kristina, concerning the volume development. First, I would like to start with China. We see good
growth in China this year, definitely, and it's going to continue because the BMW 5 Series long-
wheelbase has just started in the third quarter which is a very important product for the market.
We do not have full availability of the BMW 1 Series Sedan, so we believe we're seeing more
growth in China this year, and next year we will have the BMW `X3, will be launched in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, the new BMW 5 Series is now fully being localized in China in the
`second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000 quarter which will bring us another momentum in China.
Secondly, the growth in the Rest of the World, we see some balanced growth in the United
States but this will change in the next weeks and months to come that we will see more growth.
The reason why we will have in the `second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000 half of November, already the first new BMW `X3, will be launched in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, the new BMW 5 Series is now fully
coming to the U.S. market which is just recently launched and with three production locations for
this BMW `X3, will be launched in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, the new BMW 5 Series is now fully in the future, we will have one in South Africa, one in China, and one in the United
States as more capacity for X vehicles available for the United States.
Second one is also that the BMW X2 is coming to the market next year, which is a `brand, MINI has always been destined for e-mobility. This is demonstrated by the first MINI plug-in-new
product where we are optimistic that we are gaining new customers in all over the world
definitely, so we will have a huge momentum, and by the end of 2018 we will produce the BMW
X7. So, if you look into 2018, we will see definitely momentum and growth coming from the X
family and new model members of the X family.
Next year, we will also have, the first time, the new BMW 5 Series at full available scale, volume,
and that gives us new products are also coming in, like the BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo. So, we
will see in 2018. I am optimistic that we will see further growth in Europe and also in the United
States.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, `Harald, please go ahead.. The question about pricing and FX will be answered by
Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Kristina, maybe to start with FX. For the remaining couple of months in `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points., we expect a slightly
positive combined net effect and maybe to give you and we have hedged our main currencies,
U.S. dollar, renminbi and British pound for `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points.. And we have a solid – already solid hedges in
place in our books for 2018 as well.
Now, maybe coming to the situation regarding pricing environment, and I think we should focus
on the three main regions in our business, so U.S., Europe, and in China. Overall, we still
experience a very fierce competition in all marketplaces, and I have to say thanks to our very
flexible production facilities. We have been able to allocate production in line with customer
demand and `therefore, did not match last year's level. As you know, the Phantom did not have full availability have seen a very stable pricing environment. Even, I think, more important
if we look forward, we have been able to adjust our inventory level in the right way, in particular inBased on the strong product momentum to full availability 35:43) now of BMW 5 Series `X3, will be launched in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, the new BMW 5 Series is now fully
kicking in, step-by-step in all markets around the globe. We expect a positive development in the
weeks to come and good outlook for 2018.
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Nicolas. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is from Michael Tyndall at Citigroup. Please do go ahead, Michael.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Hi. It's `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. from Citi. Thanks for taking my questions. Two, if I may. Just, if we look at the
Financial Services business, it looks like your new contracts in the third quarter were down 12%
year-on-year, and I understand what you're saying in terms of China and the restrictions there,
but I would have thought that would inhibit growth rather than send contracts backwards. So is
there an element of de-risking going on here where you're stepping away from certain parts of
the business? And can you give us an insight as to why it might be that you're not biting as much
business on the Financial Services side?
And then, with regards to the EBT upgrade, you've mentioned it's got to do with the business
doing better. You also mentioned it was to do with equity income and also commodity hedging.
I'm just – I'm trying to understand that given that certainly the equity income appears to have
been down year-on-year in Q3, I'm wondering how much of it, I guess, is coming from commodity
hedging, so I wonder if you could just perhaps provide a bit more color with regards to the
upgrade there, particularly as Q3 P2P (37:13) was down year-on-year. Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Mike. Nicolas, please?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Mike, maybe to start with Financial Services. So, the impact in China, which you see in our results,
in our accounts, has to do with the fact that, as you are aware, in China, we have to balance
between what is on our own books and what is with corporation banks. This has to do with the
limitations we have in the Chinese environment. And this is also the reason why this has
impacted, as you might have seen, free cash flow as well. This is why we had to inject additional
equity into our Financial Services business in China.
So, next question is related to the EBT upgrade. Maybe it's worthwhile to start with to mention
that if we look at our EBIT development in the first nine months of `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points., EBIT in the Automotive
segment has been very stable trending at 9.1% in `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points.. Outlook for the remaining part of `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points. is,
on one-hand side that we have, due to the risk situation in the UK, has some slightly uncertainties
on one-hand side. But on the other hand side, due to the fact that we have after nine months
already, a very solid development of our EBT on Group level. We are very optimistic to be able to
achieve a solid growth in the full year `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points..A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Nicolas. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is from the line of `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead, Tim. Your line
is now open.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Yeah. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our priority is the long-term perspective. For this reason. I have two questions please. This is Tim from
Deutsche Bank. The first one is just a follow-up on Kristina's first question. If we summarize your
answer, can we basically say that we have seen the trough in growth from here and that you
expect it to pick up again, from say, November, December onwards? Is that fair to say?
And then as a `second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000 question, you've highlighted that you have now ramped up to about
70,000 electric vehicles or electrified vehicles sold year-to-date. For example, in Germany, you're
selling the BMW 530e iPerformance for €2,000 less than the comparable BMW 530d diesel
engine. That's probably an interesting development looking at your margin performance, you're
still staying at the same corridor. How do you really offset the additional costs that you surely have
from these vehicles? Do your customers typically purchase that options, for example, and how do
customers react to this with respect to the take rates? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Tim. We start with `Harald, please go ahead. and then Nicolas.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Tim, as you mentioned, we do see a volume pickup in November and December. I think we will
see an increase in November and December figures and it will continue in 2018, unless there are
something happening more in the world; we should never know. But from the product
momentum and from the availability of the X family and the new X2 coming to the market which
didn't have any predecessor, the `X3, will be launched in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, the new BMW 5 Series is now fully going on demand. And later on in 2018, the three production
locations for the `X3, will be launched in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, the new BMW 5 Series is now fully, we have then two production locations for the X1; one in the Netherlands
and Regensburg, and the BMW 5 Series availability for the whole year in China and Europe. I think
there is definitely a positive outlook from our side.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Thank you, `Harald, please go ahead.. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Tim, your `second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000 question is referring to one of the major challenges the industry will face in the
years to come. How to deal with the additional cost we have to add into the car for electrifying
the drivetrain. And I'm optimistic that we will see two aspects which will support a positive
development in the process and the years to come.
On the one hand side, we will continue to optimize our portfolio with combustion engines in
order to support with this improvement the switch into the new area into electrified mobility. On
the other hand side, we are working very hard in engineering, whether it's research or
development or production to make plug-in hybrid and electrified cars even more profitable.And the third element which is important, and this is depending, of course, on the market
situation market-by-market, we will have to make our customers understand that this technology
is not for free and `therefore, did not match last year's level. As you know, the Phantom did not have full availability step-by-step to increase pricing measures in order to support
profitability with plug-in hybrid and electrified cars.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And, Tim, to add one more view to this one, we need to have a strategic ramp-up of the
electrified vehicle for the next years to meet the CO2 targets in 2020 and beyond. So going to
100,000 vehicles, electrified vehicles being sold this year, and we're going to continue that
journey next year, it's an important also milestone of our way forward and the Strategy NUMBER
ONE > NEXT to achieve CO2 targets.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for. Next question, please?
Operator
We are now over to `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) at MainFirst. Please go ahead, Adam. Your line is now open.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for. `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) from MainFirst. So two questions. Firstly, on the free cash flow,
on the Automotive free cash flow. Could you just clarify that the €668 `million, while third quarter EBIT reached €53 million. The EBIT margin for the first nine months was you report in Q3,
that that actually includes the €400 `million, while third quarter EBIT reached €53 million. The EBIT margin for the first nine months was or so capital increase in the Chinese JV? And maybe if
you could give a bit more guidance for the Q4 cash flow. I mean, you talked about here more
than €3 billion, but you're well on track for that already. And just maybe give us a bit more for Q4
as well there?
And then, `second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000ly, looking at the Q3 Automotive margin of 8.3%, I mean, it seems this is a
number of little one-offs, a legal dispute with suppliers, payment to German mobility fund, I think
your diesel software update. Maybe if you could just give us some of the quantification of what
was thought as exceptional in a sense in that Q3 Autos margin? Many thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Adam. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Adam, starting with free cash flow of €668 `million, while third quarter EBIT reached €53 million. The EBIT margin for the first nine months was free cash flow do include the equity injection in
China which, of course, is in certain way an exceptional topic which we had to execute in Q3. So if
you, in a certain way, in a theoretical way, would add this on top, you can understand even better
my statement that free cash flow definitely was very strong again in Q3. Outlook for the full year
unchanged, more than €3 billion in free cash flow for the full year.
Your `second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000 question was related to the Auto margin of 8.3%. I think, first of all, it's worthwhile to
once again state that with the 8.3%, we are once again in our guidance between 8% and 10%.
They are, as stated, one-offs for legal disputes and they are, as I said, not related to the cartelA - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Nicolas. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. And now, over to the line of `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG of HSBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yeah. Thanks for taking my question. It's Horst from HSBC. I have got a question first on other
cost changes. Maybe you can remind us what were the level of other cost changes year-to-date,
and how does that compare against the guidance for full year `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points.? And then, I want to get back
again on foreign exchange. You said you have got solid hedges in place for 2018, does that mean
that we shouldn't expect any negative FX impact for 2018? I just asked that because you have
seen already in Q3 a negative impact on revenues, of course. I just asked myself is at some point
of time we will see also an earnings impact?
And then, the last issue or the last question that I have is, you stated in your Q3 report that you
have started internal investigations on this cartel issue. I just want to know by when will you have
concluded these internal investigations? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Horst. We start with your question about internal investigations with
`Harald, please go ahead. and then Nicolas. `Harald, please go ahead.?
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Horst, on the internal investigations, we started them as soon as we were aware of the article in
the German Mirror. We also asked a consulting company and a legal company to support and
advice. But it will take time and I can't give you a final date for the investigation because we're
going backwards 20 years, and we need to look into a lot of details and a lot of protocols. And
this is going to continue for the next weeks.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
But it might be 2018, right?
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yes. This might be 2018. Definitely.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
And as soon as you have got this knowledge, you can also then quantify maybe the associated
risks, right?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
We don't know.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
By today, we don't know this at all because we are still looking and searching for data.Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay. All right.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yeah. Horst, to start with the FX hedges. It's a little bit too early to comment in detail 2019.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
2018.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
As I said, 2018, we have for most of our important currency hedges in place. So, we are confident.
And at 2019, let's discuss this in 12 months from now.
Regarding the other cost changes in the quarter, as you likely mentioned, it was more or less flat.
This means that we have been able to offset the increase in R&D expenses by efficiency gains.
And in a year-on-year comparison for the first nine months, it's had – it's a slight negative impact
in the low two-digit numbers, which is also an indication that we have been capable to offset
most of the additional R&D spending.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
So, for the full year, again?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
For the full year, due to the fact that we will continue to invest in – particularly in R&D in the fourth
quarter as well, we expect low three-digit – low to middle three-digit negative impact for the full
year, which will not impact in a negative way our overall EBIT guidance for the full year, being 8%
to 10%.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Next question, please?
Operator
Next question is over the line of Charles Winston of Redburn Partners. Please go ahead. Your line
is now open.
Q - `Charles Alastair Winston, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Yeah. Hi. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our priority is the long-term perspective. For this reason. This is Charles from Redburn. Apologies for asking what might be a
rather dry question on accounting, but I just want to understand, if I go to Note 34 in the quarterly€1.9 billion. It's down about 32%. In the first half, it was plus 2%. So there's been a very radical shift
in the depreciation of assets in that quarter. I was wondering if you could explain why, what's
behind that?
Secondly, is there any impact in the P&L from that move, and if so, could you give us some idea
of what the P&L impact would be?
And the third question is, is this the ongoing level? Is this much, much lower level of depreciation
the new normal or is it a bit of a one-off? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Charles. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Well, Charles, the development between 2016 and `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points. is a result of the lower new lease
business on one hand side, and it's also, in a certain way, driven by the strengthening of the euro
with major currency. Furthermore, it's impacted by the stable environment in the used-car market
which didn't necessitate material – additional impairments on leased assets which you would also
have to be – to account in these line items. Having said this, it's not impacting the P&L number.
Why? Because this is a plus depreciation number, whereas in the P&L, this is a negative figure
which also takes disposal into account.
Now, to your last question, is this the new normal? Probably not. Probably not, because, as I said,
it's also depending on factors which we can't control like currency development and of course the
further trend in the leasing business.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, Nicolas. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's five minutes to 3:00. We have time
for two more questions.
Operator
Okay. Well, the first – the penultimate one then would be from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG at UBS. Please go
ahead, Patrick. Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Yes. Thank you. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our priority is the long-term perspective. For this reason, everybody. My first question is regarding the R&D ratio. I think
you were quoted saying this morning with a comment from you, Dr. Peter, that 6% to 6.5% R&D
could be the new normal for the next few years. I think, at the beginning of the year, you said you
would deviate from your usual 5% to 5.5%, more towards 6%, but 6.5%? I heard that for the first
time. So, I just wanted to double check if this is the guidance going forward and what actually
have changed that drove the further increase in R&D?
My `second, expansion of charging infrastructure; and, third, enabling our production network.With electrification, we are already ramping up Phase 2. Right now, there are more than 180,000 question relates to autonomous `driving, and we will continue to take a global long-term view. and your partnership or your collaboration that
becomes bigger and bigger. I was a bit surprised to see FCA joining that collaboration project.
Does it essentially mean that it's really all about economies of scale, and there is no way to
differentiate as a `brand, MINI has always been destined for e-mobility. This is demonstrated by the first MINI plug-in, i.e., will FCA vehicles which clearly have not been known as the
innovation leaders in the industry have the same technology onboard as BMW vehicles?And, lastly, we had very poor diesel overall monthly data from Germany and the UK in October.
Could you just share the BMW-specific trend? Is it following this 9 percentage point, 10
percentage point decline we've seen for the overall market in those two countries? And if so,
would that trigger any change in terms of your strategy as far as implementation of mild-hybrid
48-volt technology is concerned? Thanks.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Okay. Patrick, we start with your question to diesel and data, but we have no data about October
but with diesel we've had.
Patrick concerning your questions on the diesel. First of all, on a global basis, the diesel has been
reduced `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points. to 2016 on – from 37% to 35%. If we look at Europe, overall Europe, we had a
diesel share of around – at BMW about 73% and this decreased to 68% in Europe. And Germany
was down from 65% to 60% from 2016 to `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points.. I don't have the detailed number of the UK, but it
should be then in the range of the European number.
The change in strategy, as I mentioned in my speech, we are definitely pulling and `driving, and we will continue to take a global long-term view. the
plug-in hybrids, as well as the battery-electric vehicles business forward, and we want to have in
2025, 25 electric vehicles on the market, 12 of them fully electric. This means also that in the next
years, and this is already in the pipeline, we will bring more plug-in hybrids to the markets to react
to the diesel change and to cope with the CO2 emission targets.
Second question you had is, this was on the partnership automotive `driving, and we will continue to take a global long-term view.. Fiat Chrysler
Automobile is joining us and is that a risk that there is a partner where you might not differentiate
the BMW technology to the Fiat Chrysler technology? This is not a risk to us because there are
still a lot of things which you differentiate from the common availability of the technology and how
does the car drives and how are the motions in the motion controllers. But for Fiat Chrysler, it
gives us an opportunity to open up into the United States and regulation in the United States, so
it gives us an opportunity with Fiat Chrysler being part of that that we also have a bigger footprint
in the United States for autonomous `driving, and we will continue to take a global long-term view..
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
So, the question about R&D ratio will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Patrick, will the 6% to 6.5% be the new normal? If we look long-term, no. If we look the next three
years, definitely yes. And we believe that this is very well-invested money, so we will see around
6% this year in `2017, customers will have access to more than 130,000 charging points.. We will see the peak in 2018. And why did we have to accelerate certain
programs because clearly the trend towards electrification is gaining speed in all areas of our
business. In particular, China is further accelerating and you have seen some of the examples at
different auto show. We have to accelerate also the development of plug-in hybrids with latest
Gen 5 technology.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
Thank you. Last question, please.Operator
Our ultimate question is over the line of `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) at Société Générale. Please go ahead,
Stephen. Your line is now open.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for for taking my question. Directly after the Brexit vote, the German auto
industry made it very clear that it was very much in favor of free trade agreement staying with the
UK. Do you feel that the German auto industry has an influence in the negotiation of the EU with
the UK?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
This is a really good question. The last question for the Chairman, `Harald, please go ahead..
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First of all, what I would clearly state is, again, that we are clearly in favor of free trade
everywhere in the world, so it's not just a question about the Brexit, so as a question of the
international trade which is bringing wealth on both sides.
Coming to the Brexit, I think there is an influence in terms of – that if you would like to be
competitive customs and supply chain management and the customs for these amount of
money, it needs to be competitive. So I do believe that we will hope that we will find a pragmatic
solution between the Euro's 27 and as well as the UK in solving this issue because if we don't find
a pragmatic solution, both sides we lose.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director-Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for, `Harald, please go ahead.. `Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is one of the most profitable auto manufacturers in the, thank you for joining us today. I wish you a
pleasant day and I look forward to seeing you next time. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the line will shortly be open for and bye-bye.