Q3 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon, Europe, and good morning to the U.S. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen to the
AstraZeneca's Year-To-Date and Quarter Three 2017 Results.
Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read Safe Harbor statements. The company intends
to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the United States' Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with respect to the
operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our expectations are
based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking statements involve risks
and uncertainties and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement made on this call reflect the knowledge and information available
at this time on this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking
statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer that
accompanies this presentation and webcast.
I will now hand you over to `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, everyone. `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director here, CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to the year-to-date and Q3
2017 results conference call and our webcast for investors and analysts. We are here in
Cambridge, UK, our global headquarters. We have people on the phone and the webcast. ThePlease turn to slide two. This is our usual safe harbor statement, so please turn to slide three. We
plan to spend about 30 minutes today on the presentation and then leave the same time for
Q&A. If you want to ask questions on the phone, you can get in the line already now by pressing
star one. There's also an option to ask questions online if you want as part of the webcast. And
we would like to provide everyone with an opportunity to ask questions, so please limit to one
question per person in the first round. Thank you for your help.
Today I'm joined by `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, our CFO; `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs,, Executive Vice President of Global
Portfolio and Product Strategy, Global Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs. We also have Sean
Bohen, our EVP of Global Development and Chief Medical Officer. And then, we also welcome
Dave Fredrickson, our new Executive VP and Head of the Oncology Business Unit. Dave was
previously the Head of our Japanese business, launching Tagrisso there with great success. And
before that, Dave was Head of the U.S. Oncology business of AstraZeneca, and he launched
Lynparza and Tagrisso in the U.S. market. Dave replaces Jamie Freedman who is now the
President of our Canadian organization. Jamie has moved back to his native Toronto.
Please turn to slide four. Here is today's agenda, which I think you will be familiar with, so let's turn
to slide five. On our conference call today, we will be making comments on our financial
performance using core reporting metrics and at constant exchange rates, which are both non-
GAAP measures. All numbers will refer to million U.S. dollars and growth rates at constant
exchange rates or CER, unless we otherwise state. With the formalities behind me, I will now kick
off.
In summary, the business performance in the first nine months continued in line with our
expectations. Total revenue decreased as anticipated and reflected the tail impact of Crestor's
and Seroquel XR U.S. loss of exclusivity. The decline in product sales decelerated from 8% year-
to-date to only 2% in the third quarter. Sales from our growth platforms increased overall and
actually improved during the third quarter, in particular in the emerging markets and specifically in
China where we are doing extremely well.
Emerging markets sales were up by 7%. Within this region, China continued to excel with a 10%
growth rate. Underlying growth is actually closer to 15% and accelerating. There was a diminishing
negative impact from the overall economic and geopolitical situation in some countries in the
international region. Our Respiratory business improved in the third quarter versus year-to-date,
but also continued to be impacted by sales of Symbicort in the U.S. while this medicine remained
a global leader in its class.
In what we call New CVMD, Brilinta continued with high growth, and in diabetes, Farxiga continued
to be the number one – the world number one in its class and also got back to growth in the
important U.S. market. Japan was up by 5% and, finally, Oncology, now 20% of the total business,
continued up with New Oncology medicine Lynparza back to U.S. growth. We had a very nice
strength for Lynparza. And Tagrisso also continuing its global launch. Earnings per share were as
expected and are now supported and updated 2017 guidance where 2017 core EPS anticipated
to be closer to the low-teens percentage decline. As you know, we upgraded our guidance.
Finally, we made progress on our sustainability agenda with two listings by the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index, as well as a very favorable A listing by CDP for climate and water.
Please turn to slide six. Our pipeline news flow continued since the last results announcement.
This list may even be the most extensive list we've ever presented. Therefore, we'll only cover a
few highlights. Lynparza, first of all, got U.S. approval in the second-line setting of ovarian cancer
with a broad label, but importantly we also had tablets approved at the same time.This was important for patients and for our company and our partner Merck with the upcoming
life cycle program for the medicine, so as I said before we've seen a very nice uptick of our
Lynparza prescriptions in the last few weeks. We presented the exciting Phase III data from
Tagrisso's FLAURA trial at the ESMO and we got a Breakthrough Therapy Designation for first-line
use in the U.S. We also presented the Phase III data from Imfinzi's PACIFIC trial at the ESMO and
we have achieved seven regulatory submissions, including the U.S., EU, Japan and a few others.
Together with Tagrisso, Imfinzi will make up a strong future presence in lung cancer, building on
the legacy of Iressa and a quite unique opportunity in our industry today.
Last, but not least, Calquence became our fourth New Oncology medicine and the first for
AstraZeneca in blood cancer. This was a major milestone for the majority investment in Acerta
that we announced in December 2015, a very exciting product with a nice label and the team is
ready to go. As usual, Sean will cover more pipeline milestones later, so please turn to slide
seven.
When we look at product sales, we continue to see underlying growth, now 5%. This growth
comes from our three main CRP areas of Oncology, CVMD, and Respiratory and from the
emerging markets, and we expect this growth to become more visible as we fully annualize the
key patent expiries. And as we see our new launches gain momentum, we expect to see an
acceleration of our growth rate for the growth platforms. During 2017, we've seen an improving
quality performance for product sales and we look forward to keeping you updated on this
journey.
Turning to slide eight, as we deliver an improved sales performance and we return to growth, our
focus on commercial execution will become more important. There are good examples today. For
instance, the emerging markets, Brilinta, Farxiga, Oncology. We've launched an unprecedented
number of new medicines, with benralizumab expected this quarter. This will be our first biologic
medicine in Respiratory to treat severe, uncontrolled asthma.
As with most years, there are positive and negatives, like the recent setback for tralokinumab.
However, overall, on an aggregate basis, it has been a defining year for our company and a year
with unprecedented news flow.
We're committed to returning this company to growth in product sales, which will be the first time
in many years and will be a successful conclusion of the pipeline driven transformation since 2012.
This really would not have been possible without the support and the dedicated work of all
AstraZeneca colleagues around the world. Together, we look forward to keeping you,
shareholders, updated on the continued journey ahead.
With this, I will stop here and hand over to `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, for our review of product sales and growth
platforms.
`Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, `
Thank you, Pascal. I'm pleased to be here today to update you on the performance of our growth
platforms, so let's get started with the next slide, please.
Today, I will cover our non-Oncology growth platforms and hand over to Dave to cover New
Oncology. The growth platforms demonstrated overall growth in the quarter with a small
acceleration during Q3, but with continued headwinds in Respiratory. Combined revenue of our
growth platforms represented over three quarters of the product sales year-to-date, and good
momentum was seen in emerging markets, New CVMD and in New Oncology. Next slide, please.Firstly, starting with emerging markets. We continue to be in line with our long-term performance
guidance of mid- to high-single digit growth in product sales. Underlying growth without the
impact from partnerships and divestments, as Pascal mentioned, was approximately 5% higher.
China exhibited a strong quarter with growth up to now 10% in the year-to-date, mainly driven by
Respiratory, CV/Metabolic and Tagrisso. Outside of China, we saw good growth across the
region, with Russia and Brazil outgrowing the local market. Next slide, please.
Respiratory sales continue to see challenges in the year, with pricing pressure in the U.S. easing
slightly. Sales declines in the U.S. and Europe are being largely offset by emerging markets and
established rest-of-world performance. With Symbicort, we're seeing a slight easing with product
sales now down by 4% in the quarter. This reflects some moderation of pricing headwinds in the
U.S. and competitive dynamics in Europe. We believe the easing is partially driven by our ability to
differentiate with Symbicort, which continues to lead volume share in the ICS LABA class globally.
In the U.S. and Europe, Symbicort product sales declined by 15% and 11%, respectively. Symbicort
in emerging markets delivered growth of 8%, with China sales up by 18% in the year.
Pulmicort continued to demonstrate strong growth up to 7% year-to-date, mainly driven again by
China, the biggest market for the product. The Bevespi launch continues with new-to-brand share
stabilizing. Next slide, please.
In New CVMD, sales were up by 5% despite intense competition, with emerging markets
continuing to offset a slower U.S. performance. Brilinta delivered product sales of $780 million in
the year-to-date, with 31% growth. A notable pickup was seen in the quarter with 67% growth in
the U.S. and continued strength in emerging markets including China. Overall, the diabetes
franchise exhibited a softer year-to-date, with sales down 3%. U.S. sales declined by 10% as a
result of intense pricing pressure and competition for market share.
Farxiga maintained a 40% volume share globally with product sales of $742 million in the year-to-
date and 24% growth. In the U.S., Farxiga product sales returned to growth, up 4% in the quarter,
in part due to optimized affordability program. Farxiga continued to deliver strong growth in
Europe and in emerging markets, with sales up 27% and 72%, respectively. We maintained
leadership and share of voice across many markets. Next slide, please.
And staying on diabetes, we're really pleased to announce an improved device for Bydureon,
Bydureon BCise, previously known as the autoinjector. Bydureon BCise was approved by the U.S.
FDA in October and has been accepted for review in Europe. The improved device plays at par
with other devices in the weekly GLP-1 market, delivering a weekly Bydureon dose in a new
formulation that requires no reconstitution. Next slide, please.
And in Japan, we continue to grow with product sales up by 5% in the year, driven by Tagrisso
and Farxiga. Diabetes continued to impress, up 14% in Japan, driven by Farxiga growth of 60%.
Farxiga is now leading in the SGLT2 class in value and volume terms, with class exhibiting strong
growth. Crestor, our largest product, saw its first generic enter during the quarter, and we do
expect more soon, which will be an important factor as we move into 2018.
We continue to have great success with Tagrisso, although with a slight sequential dip due to the
Ryotanki lift seen in Q2. Just as a reminder, prescriptions for new medicines in Japan are limited
to two weeks for their first year on the market and as a lift of this restriction occurred in Q2, there
was a volume bonus at that point.
So with this, I will now hand over to Dave, the Head of Oncology Business Unit. Dave?
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `Great. Thanks, Mark. I want to say how much I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you all on
the phone today and look forward to meeting many of you soon. Just as Oncology supported
steady growth in Japan, you can see from the chart on slide 16 that strong Oncology sales in Q3
2017 made an important contribution to our global performance for the quarter.
We exceeded $1 billion in quarterly sales, up 19% versus the same quarter last year and, as Pascal
mentioned, Oncology sales now comprise over 20% of total product sales. Also, with the
approval of Calquence on October 31, we've now delivered four new medicines within our New
Oncology portfolio and we are on track to deliver against our commitment of six new medicines
by 2020. Later in my section, I'll speak in more detail about Calquence, as well as commercial
performance of Lynparza, Tagrisso and our regulatory efforts for Imfinzi in lung cancer. But before
I do that, a brief update on Imfinzi and bladder cancer.
The U.S. approval and launch in the setting has been strategically important for us, allowing us to
raise awareness, open accounts, obtain formulary access and set important groundwork for the
future potential launches in lung cancer. Imfinzi was the fourth of now five PD-L1s to launch in the
second-line bladder space. And in this competitive space, we have seen steady progress month
over month with market share now in the mid-single digit in our first full quarter post approval.
Slide 17, please. So turning now to Lynparza. We saw strong performance in the quarter, with sales
of $81 million, as steady growth continued in Europe and, again, as Pascal mentioned, very
noteworthy, we drove a resurgence in U.S. performance following the SOLO-2 approval, which
expanded our label to second-line maintenance in ovarian cancer and, importantly, marked the
launch of tablet, eliminating the pill burden for patients that we had with capsules. Looking
forward, we anticipate several important catalysts over the coming year for Lynparza, with
potential launches of the tablet formulation in Europe, breast cancer in the United States and
launches within Japan.
The Merck collaboration is progressing well, and we've had various joint working teams already
established and good collaboration well underway. I'm working closely with Frank Clyburn, my
counterpart at Merck, and together we're rapidly advancing the collaboration between our two
companies. We look forward to the Merck salesforce coming on board in 2018, and both
companies eventually developing equal-sized field force efforts on Lynparza. With this combined
effort, we expect Lynparza to remain the leading PARP inhibitor.
Please turn to slide 18. Now turning to lung cancer and Tagrisso and the soon-to-be expected
Imfinzi. Tagrisso demonstrated continued growth on the quarter. With global sales of $248 million,
we are on pace to eclipse $1 billion in annualized sales. You already heard about the strong
performance in Japan. In the U.S., performance was underpinned by continued efforts to drive
testing where now two out of three patients are tested for their T790M status. One such initiative
is a voucher program for plasma testing, which provides streamlined process for plasma draw,
testing and delivery of results.
Also, very importantly, we saw strength in emerging markets with sales of $45 million in the
quarter, China being the key driver. As we look to Imfinzi, following on the exciting PACIFIC data
and locally advanced, unresectable non-small cell lung cancer, which we shared at ESMO, and the
simultaneous New England Journal of Medicine publication, we are very pleased to announce that
we've achieved seven regulatory submissions to date in the key markets, including U.S., EU and
Japan. We've also initiated an early access program globally to allow patients to have access to
this new therapy.Please now turn to slide 19. Lastly, we're very excited to have announced U.S. approval of
Calquence, also known as acalabrutinib, our BTK inhibitor in development for blood cancers. We
received approval in a smaller indication for previously treated mantle cell lymphoma. We
estimate that about 3,000 patients are diagnosed with mantle cell lymphoma each year in the
U.S. Based on its efficacy, a 40% complete response rate and an 80% objective response rate
combined with its safety profile, we believe Calquence is a compelling best-in-class option for
previously treated MCL patients.
The launch of Calquence was our fifth launch of a new product or line extension in Oncology in
the U.S. in 2017. Our launch experience and execution continues to build. And with Calquence, our
field force was in front of customers within hours of approval and we shipped the product into
the channel within 24 hours. While still very early, initial feedback in the marketplace has been
positive and we look forward to a more thorough update on the launch and the year-end result.
With this, I'll now hand it over to Marc for the financials.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Dave, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes taking you
through our financial performance in the year-to-date. Please turn to slide 21. As usual, I will begin
by showing you the reported P&L numbers before turning to the core performance. Total
revenue declined by 3% in the first nine months of the year, with product sales impacted by the
receding effects of the Crestor and Seroquel XR losses of exclusivity in the United States.
As you heard earlier from Pascal, product sales have seen a gradual quarterly improvement
during the year. External revenue grew by 50% in the year-to-date, with income from Merck of $1
billion making up around half of the total.
Please turn to slide 22. If we now turn to the core performance, we can look further down the P&L
and see that our gross margin ratio in the year-to-date was down at 81.8% from 82.9% in the
same period of 2016. The third quarter, however, our gross margin ratio declined by 4
percentage points to 79.6%, impacted by unusually high level last year and manufacturing
variances this year, as well as the initiating profit share agreement on Lynparza.
As part of the agreement, we will book all product sales of Lynparza and reflect the profit share
against the cost of sale. This is in line with the comments I made back in July that we wouldn't
anticipate such a high core gross margin ratio that we saw in the first half of the whole of 2017. It's
important to note that the core gross margin was also impacted by losses of exclusivity and
supply agreements on externalized or divested medicine.
Turning to operating expenses, core R&D costs declined by 2% in the year-to-date and core
SG&A costs declined by 5%. These reductions reflected our unrelenting focus on cost discipline.
We did see an uplift in core SG&A costs of 4% in the quarter, reflecting some specific factors. I will
talk more about SG&A costs in a moment. Core other operating income nearly doubled in the
first nine months, reflecting the level of disposal activity. The core tax rate in the year-to-date was
18%. You may remember that last year one-off tax benefit impacted our quarter three
performance at that time.
Please turn to slide 23. I know that some of you find it challenging to model our future
externalized revenues. Here, I'd like to provide you some more clarity, as well as reiterate that
externalization remains a key part of our strategy. We have talked to you for some time about
sustainable and ongoing externalization revenue. In the first nine months of the year, even whenyou take account of the Merck collaboration, this was 26% of total external revenue versus 22% in
the whole of 2016. Other times, we see this proportion rising further.
The Merck collaboration is expected to provide further and increasing income in the years to
come. We recognized around $1 billion in external revenue in the third quarter for Merck with
$600 million deferred to the balance sheet. This will be released in the profit and loss account
over time. As you may remember, the agreement also includes payment by Merck of $750 million
for certain license options over 2017 to 2019 and up to $6.15 billion contingent upon successful
achievement of future approval and sales milestone for monotherapy and combination. We
anticipate the first milestone in 2018.
Please turn to slide 24. This familiar slide illustrates the important progress in reducing our
operating cost base. As I just mentioned, OpEx base continued to reduce with core R&D costs
and core SG&A costs declining so far this year. I did say in July that from time to time you may see
the occasional rise in core SG&A costs and that's what you saw in the third quarter as we had the
low comparison as evidenced by the chart, made early investments in upcoming launches and
also invested in emerging markets and, in particular, China. I want to make it clear, however, that I
remain committed to our principle of cost discipline as we look to reduce SG&A costs further over
time and become a more efficient company.
Please turn to slide 25. This new slide illustrates our cash flow performance in the year-to-date.
Cash generation is a commitment and a key focus for me, Pascal and the rest of the
management team as we look to maximize our cash flow during our return to growth. On this
chart, I want to highlight the $622 million improvement of reported operating profit as well as a
slow increase in working capital. The progress that we have made, especially in payables, has
been outweighed by increases in inventory level, including inventory of new biologic medicine
and I'm determined to address this.
As we look at net cash flow from operating activities on this slide, we can see that we stripped
out the gains on disposal, which are then added back further down in the cash flow statement.
With the good news on the approval of Calquence, it is worth reconfirming that we will soon pay
$1.5 billion to the selling shareholders of Acerta Pharma. However, overall, the near $400 million
improvement in cash generation in the first nine months was very encouraging, especially as we
enter 2018.
Please turn to slide 26. I'd like to conclude with this more familiar slide, and I want to reiterate and
refine the 2017 guidance which is at constant exchange rate. I expect a low- to mid-single digit
percentage decline in total revenue. The guidance for core EPS has however been updated
today. Core EPS is now anticipated to decline towards the more favorable end of the low- to mid-
teens percentage range. This refinement partly reflects the final agreement on the accounting
for the Merck collaboration on Lynparza.
Outside of guidance, the total (00:25:42) revenue and other operating income is still expected to
be ahead of that of 2016. As I mentioned, sustainable and ongoing income is expected to
increase as a proportion of external revenue over time.
We anticipate that core R&D costs will be broadly in line with 2016 and, as just mentioned now,
we will reduce core SG&A cost for this year. We remain very disciplined on cost as we return to
growth.
And finally, I want to reiterate our cost allocation priority. We will continue to strike the balance
between the interest of the business, our financial creditors and our shareholders. After providinginvestment-grade credit rating, we will then keep under review any potential investment in value-
enhancing and immediately earnings-accretive opportunity.
That is last on the list. With that, I will hand over to Sean.
`Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Thank you, Marc. I will now run through the late-stage pipeline event since the last results
announcement and highlight some recent data presentation. I will then wrap up with a look at our
upcoming news flow.
Please turn now to slide 28. For the quarter, most pipeline news supports progress in each of our
main therapy areas. In Oncology, we received several U.S. Breakthrough Therapy Designations,
Imfinzi received USBTD for patients with Stage III unresectable non-small cell lung cancer.
Submission to the U.S., EU, Japan and regulatory authorities in other countries were also made in
the quarter.
Tagrisso received USBTD after meeting its primary endpoint of progression-free survival in the
first line FLAURA trial. Calquence also received U.S. Breakthrough Designation, which
subsequently led to approval by the FDA in October.
In type-2 diabetes, Bydureon BCise, the autoinjector, received U.S. approval and EU regulatory
submission acceptance. Furthermore, we received U.S. and EU approval for the combination of
Farxiga and Bydureon in type-2 diabetes. In Respiratory, Symbicort received U.S. approval for
COPD exacerbation. For Duaklir, another Phase III trial met its primary endpoint for COPD. Further
on data readouts, tralokinumab did not meet its primary endpoints in severe uncontrolled asthma
in two trials.
Please turn to slide 29. At ESMO, results from the Phase III FLAURA trial showed a statistically
significant and clinically meaningful PFS benefit with Tagrisso over the current standard of care,
erlotinib or gefitinib as first-line treatments in previously untreated patients with locally advanced
or metastatic epidermal growth factor receptor mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer.
Median PFS was nearly doubled at 18.9 months for Tagrisso compared with 10.2 months for the
current first-line EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
Improvements were seen in all pre-specified subgroups, including patients with and without brain
metastases. For FLAURA, we anticipate regulatory submission acceptances during the fourth
quarter of 2017. Furthermore, at ESMO results from the pivotal Phase III PACIFIC trial also showed
a statistically significant and clinically meaningful PFS benefit with Imfinzi in patients with locally
advanced Stage III unresectable non-small cell lung cancer following standard chemoradiation
therapy, a clinical setting where there are currently no approved treatments. For PACIFIC
regulatory submissions and/or acceptances in the U.S. with priority review, EU, Japan, Switzerland,
Canada, Australia and Brazil have been achieved. We anticipate first regulatory decisions in the
first half of 2018. Please turn now to slide 30.
For Brilinta, we presented at ESC the sub-analysis of data from the Phase III PEGASUS-TIMI 54
trial, demonstrating a 29% risk reduction in CB death from treatment with Brilinta 60 mg given
twice daily versus placebo in patients taking low-dose aspirin, but still at high risk for an
atherothrombotic event, a major cause of acute coronary syndrome and CB death. At EASD, we
presented the Forxiga DEPICT-1 results, which highlighted the safety and efficacy of Forxiga in
patients with type-1 diabetes uncontrolled on insulin.The trial demonstrated significant and clinically relevant reductions from baseline in hemoglobin
A1c, weight reduction, and also lowered daily insulin dose at 24 weeks versus placebo. The
Bydureon EXSCEL trial results were also presented at EASD. As a reminder, the trial met its
primary safety objective, but did not meet its primary efficacy objective.
Please turn to slide 31. We believe our biologics portfolio for severe asthma is emerging as the
strongest in the industry. Today, the science points to a precision approach. Benralizumab is an
anti-eosinophil monoclonal antibody that targets the IL-5 receptor, thereby inducing direct and
near complete depletion of eosinophils via antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. We
believe benralizumab is the precision biologic with the best clinical profile for severe asthma
patients with an eosinophilic phenotype.
Tezepelumab is a first-in-class investigational monoclonal antibody that blocks thymic stromal
lymphopoietin or TSLP. Recent Phase IIb clinical data from a study known as PATHWAY evaluated
tezepelumab in a broad population of severe asthma patients. The results were published in the
New England Journal of Medicine and presented as a late-breaking abstract at ERS. TSLP is
produced in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli such as allergen viruses and other pathogens in
the lung and acts as an upstream master-switch driving multiple downstream inflammatory
pathways, including Th2 cytokines such as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13. However, TSLP also activates many
types of cells involved in non-Th2 driven inflammation and may play a role in non-Th2 driven
disease.
Please turn to slide 32. As you know, 2017 was a busy year. Activity will continue into 2018. Before
the end of 2017, we expect to receive a U.S. regulatory decision on benralizumab for severe
uncontrolled asthma. We expect regulatory submission acceptance for Tagrisso in first-line non-
small cell lung cancer. In 2018, we expect data from Lynparza in first-line ovarian cancer from
SOLO-1, the final MYSTIC OS data plus a number of other news items including first data
readouts for I/O trials KESTREL and EAGLE in head and neck cancer. We will also see data on
PT010 in COPD.
Starting this time next year, we'll begin to see readouts for lupus from anifrolumab and have the
potential for quite a few regulatory submissions before the end of next year. Importantly, we also
expect a number of regulatory decisions including, for lung cancer, we hope to soon have
Tagrisso benefit patients in the first-line setting, as well as have Imfinzi benefiting patients with
unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung cancer.
Thank you all for your continued support and thanks to all the hardworking people who come to
work every day to make this happen. I will now hand back to Pascal for closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Please turn to slide 34. So before we end and move to the Q&A, let me
summarize. Our performance to date was in line with expectations. A new AstraZeneca grew
underlying product sales by 5%. Our financials were on track. We upgraded our guidance for
revenue and core EPS. We upgraded this core EPS guidance to a low mid-teen decline. During the
period, we also had an unprecedented amount of pipeline news flow. We delivered good
execution with Lynparza back to U.S. growth. Tagrisso continued its global rollout and we
completed the important regulatory submission for Imfinzi's PACIFIC trial. We also saw our first
medicine for blood cancer, Calquence. Everyone in the company is proud of the significant
difference our new medicines make to patients' lives.
Outside of Oncology, emerging markets continued to impress, and Brilinta and Farxiga continuedfurther support our return to growth.
We will now go to the Q&A.
Q&A
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We'll also take written questions from the webcast. And I please remind everyone to limit
questions to one to be fair to all of our callers. Thanks in advance and, perhaps, we can take the
first question from the conference call. There's one question here from `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG of
Deutsche Bank. Richard, go ahead.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Hi. Thank you very much for taking my question. Struggling to pick which one to choose, so I'll go
with the obvious one which is around 2018. Obviously, not asking you to give guidance now, but
maybe you could talk about the pushes and pulls to performance in 2018. I mean you talked
about returning the company to product sales growth, but I'm wondering about how we should
think about profitability. And, obviously, the extent to which you continue to generate additional
externalization revenue will impact that. So I wondered if you could talk about how you expect
that to evolve in 2018? Thanks very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Richard. Good question. Let me quickly comment on the sales and then I'll ask Marc to
comment on the P&L in more detail. As far as sales, you got to see two major moving parts,
really. One is the last part of our patent expiries. We're losing Crestor next year in Europe. You
know that, but I think it's important to keep in mind, but that's the last one. And sort of by the end
of next year, we'll deal with that, any major patent expiries for quite some years after that. But
certainly, next year that's happening.
On the positive side, we have a raft of launches. We're launching – we're in the process of
launching seven new products, so that's a very substantial number of launches that will boost our
growth. We also have obtained reimbursement, full reimbursement, in China. Five products that
are on the National Drug Reimbursement List, that will further accelerate our growth rate in China.
So those are kind of mostly the two big growth – the big events on the top line. And, of course,
as we continue moving forward, these new launches will drive our growth more and more rapidly.
So you have to see us become a company with a rapid growth rate as we emerge out of this final
patent expiry next year.
Marc, do you want to add any color on the externalization and the cost?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. Maybe a few factors to talk about 2018 without giving a detailed guidance. But first of all,
there are two structural issues. The first one is as we transition from primary care to a mix of
primary and specialty care over time and, therefore, the proportion of specialty care and the
greater Oncology products will help operating leverage. The second structural issue is we
continue with our cost discipline and productivity initiative. We have seen that in the last three
years, 2015, 2016 and 2017, that we have derived continuous improvement in our productivity and
also this has shown as cost savings. So these are the two positives.You asked also a question about the externalization and other income, and I can confirm that they
will continue. This is part of our business model, but we can also see that 2017 will probably be a
peak in our externalization and disposals. And lastly, as Pascal was just referring to, we have
several launches we've seen or have taken place in the immediate past, on near future and,
therefore, we also have to do justice to these products so that we put them on the best possible
trajectory. So I think these four factors have to be combined to arrive at a good projection for
2018. And I'll be happy to provide a more detailed guidance when we meet for the fourth quarter
early next year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. As you would expect, Richard, we're still going through our planning and budgeting
process. It would be premature to comment more specifically.
`Tim Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC of Bernstein. Tim, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Yeah, thank you. More of a kind of a science question. On tumor mutation burden, can you
describe how you guys are incorporating this into any of your trials? For example, is there a way
you might incorporate this into MYSTIC, like Bristol is contemplating with 227 even if only for
exploratory purposes? And then, just a quick question on the dividend. With Glaxo, there's fears
of dividend risk. With Astra, do we have anything to fear? Are there any particular items that could
create uncertainty with your dividend as you look forward over the next couple of years?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Tim. So let me start with the dividend and I'll ask Sean to cover the scientific question and
then I'll ask Marc to cover the dividend again. So what I want to say about the dividend is, we have
said this from the beginning, it has been part of our value proposition that we actually realized
that it takes time to rebuild our pipeline, rebuild the company. And in the meantime, we are very
committed to dividend because our shareholders have to be rewarded for their patience. So I will
say what I've said before, we're committed to the dividend today, tomorrow, the day after. Our
commitment to the dividend is full. Sean?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, sure. Thanks, Tim, for the question. To answer your question, so in the trials that are
already ongoing and enrolling, obviously, it's hard to incorporate a new exploratory marker
prospectively. Retrospectively, we did collect tissue from the patients in the MYSTIC trial and it
does give the opportunity to look at things like TMB or even other markers like interferon
signature as exploratory endpoints with a retrospective analysis. We have not finalized plans for
that, however, we're analyzing it as an option. One thing I would add is tumor mutational burden
is not one simple test. It's not quite like PD-L1 expression. Techniques that you use, where you
look for the mutations, how you measure the load remain quite variable. So that's a complexity
that we see, but we're definitely examining it closely.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. I think the dividend you want to hear, I turn to CFO again. So you hear it twice.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `So first of all, we remain committed to our progressive dividend policy. I've just mentioned it a
few minutes ago in my presentation on the capital allocation priority. So, again, we reaffirm once
again that we are all committed to a progressive dividend policy for the company.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. Sachin at Bank of America.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of America. Thanks for the question. On the recent study, start with IDO in
the PACIFIC setting. Will you just outline why you chose IDO versus CTLA-4? And then, Sean, I
asked the question frequently, but how do you think about IDO versus CTLA for broader
development beyond the single study? And then just a clarification on MYSTIC, if I could. My
interpretation of the messaging has changed from the 2Q call from don't over-interpret PFS, and
anyway it still has a chance, to one of limited concepts in the combo and the real focus being
mono. So I wanted to check whether that shift is correct. If so, what's behind it? And has the delay
to Merck's KEYNOTE-189 changed your thought process at all? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, so we'll let Sean cover this. But let me just say, overall, I don't think there's any shift at
least in our view. I mean, there's no new news I'd say that would shift our confidence, but, Sean,
do you want to go ahead?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Sure. So the first question was about IDO versus CTLA-4 in Stage III unresectable maintenance
setting like PACIFIC. It's important to recognize that when you go into maintenance setting,
tolerability is a very important aspect of the regimen that you choose and was indeed one of the
real unknowns for Imfinzi as a single agent prior to doing PACIFIC. It turned out that the tolerability
is quite favorable, particularly in light of the PFS benefit that was demonstrated.
We know that adding tremelimumab to Imfinzi adds autoimmune toxicity, and so it's really a
question of whether that tolerability would support a maintenance indication that led to looking at
an IDO combination where tolerability looks quite similar to, again, single-agent Imfinzi. And that
consideration will also be carried as we look forward into other combinations and whether we
might go into this maintenance setting after chemoradiotherapy.
I think with regard to broader combos, hopefully I just answered the question with the last part.
We consider not only evidence of efficacy, but also tolerability. Messaging around MYSTIC, yeah, I
agree with Pascal. We haven't really changed our messaging or our confidence. Our messaging
almost two years ago now was that we thought overall survival was the endpoint that better
capture the benefit of IO therapy. I think over the course of that period since we changed
MYSTIC, we feel even more strongly based on data from both our own data and in the field as a
whole that, that's true. The difference, I guess, I would say, and you're right, overall survival
remains to be analyzed. So we expect the results first half of next year, and still it is quite possible
that, that will be a positive result even though PFS was not a positive result.
The last part, I would say, with regard to combo versus mono, perhaps the only thing that's
changed over time is that there's more mono data showing that, that's a validated treatment
paradigm and PD-1, PD-L1 as a mechanism of action for non-small cell lung cancer. So in one case,
we have a test hypothesis which is durva/treme and another case we have a fair amount of datathat monotherapy can benefit at least subsets of patient in this setting. So that might be the only
thing that's changed.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, and I think you were very clear on Q2, Sean, that we saw a lot of possibility for the
combination and certainly not achieving PFS was not a good sign either. So I think we were
relatively clear. Sometimes the use of word, I guess, can be read one way or another,
but...Andrew at Citi, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Yes. Hi, thanks. A couple of questions. Number one, just to confirm that neither within the PFS or
OS of MYSTIC, is there a prospective analysis in TMB high patient as part of the primary analysis?
I think that's what Sean was just saying, but I just wanted to confirm. And then the question is why
didn't you? Was this a question of lacking power? Was it data capture that you just didn't have
enough sample set or some other issue? And then a couple of other quick ones. Timing for the
expansion of the Lynparza program with Merck, we're obviously expecting many more trials to be
announced. When should we expect them to hit clinical trials? Then, finally, if Pascal wants to say
something about Jonathan (sic) [Jamie] Freedman's departure to Canada and David's ascension.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Sean, do you want to cover the first two questions?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Sure. So TMB high in MYSTIC, again, no, there is not a prospective analysis. It would be a
retrospective exploratory analysis for TMB high versus low. Why is that? A couple of reasons for
that. One, when MYSTIC was designed and enrolled, the TMB hypothesis didn't really exist as a
hypothesis. PD-L1 expression hypothesis was the stronger hypothesis. I would add at this point in
time, I think in non-small-cell lung cancer, that really remains the validated hypothesis, that PD-L1
high is a better predictor of benefit from IO therapy. And so, as I said, we do have the
opportunity to potentially look at TMB in a retrospective exploratory sense. The last part I would
say is I do not think as a diagnostic modality that TMB has been operationalized in a way that
really lends itself to a companion diagnostic yet. So that's a consideration we also use. There was
another question about...
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Lynparza program expansion with Merck.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
...expansion of Lynparza program with Merck. Obviously, these discussions are ongoing. I will say
that from – Dave talked a little bit about the success that they're having in the collaboration in the
commercial setting. The development collaboration is also progressing very, very nicely, and
we're formulating plans and beginning to implement them. So as those turn into trial, we will
announce them collectively and you'll also see them appearing on clinicaltrials.gov, so that should
be coming next year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `So the last question on – as far as Jamie, I mean, we are, as a company, very committed to talent
development. And essentially what I've learned in my career as far as learning and developing is
two things. One is you have to experience different roles both in the field and globally. So we
want people to alternate global and local roles. And the second is (00:49:58) the perfect
development plan that you can put together, and then there's the opportunities that arise and
you seize those opportunities when they arise. So what happened here is that it's a great
opportunity for Jamie to gain field experience. He's never led a country, so that's a great
experience to learn a country – to lead the country. And secondly, his parents are aging. He's from
Toronto, so it's a great opportunity to match personal development and also the personal family
dimension.
So that's basically what happened here, and I really think that it's a fantastic opportunity to
develop two leaders. In fact, Jamie in a field-based leadership role, commercial role and look
forward to working with Dave, who comes historically from Genentech, actually, Roche Genentech
and joined us in the U.S. organization a few years back and has been in Japan for the recent past.
So that's really – there's nothing more than this behind this move. It's really a talent development
move, Andrew.
So let's move to Vincent of Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yeah, thank you for taking my questions. I mean, on product sales, on the Imfinzi, I mean there is
no sales contribution this quarter. $1 million for the first nine months. Should we expect sales
contribution in line as from fourth quarter on the back of the updated NCCN guidelines or later in
the beginning of next year when it is approved? And it's more or less the same question for
Calquence. I mean, should we expect Calquence to remain a kind of niche product waiting for the
next label extensions as from 2020? Or do you think you can generate more than the MCL
indication?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Vincent. So, Dave, speaking of you. It's a good opportunity for you to go over those two
questions.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, absolutely. So thank you for both questions. So on Imfinzi, certainly, we, today, promote only
in the second-line bladder setting, which is where we have our approval and we were
encouraged certainly by the NCCN's Category 2A finding for the data coming out of PACIFIC.
That NCCN Compendia Listing occurred on the 29th of September, so the last week in the third
quarter. So obviously, it had no impact on any third quarter treatment decisions. Certainly, we
know that NCCN guidelines do factor into physician treatment decisions and formulary decisions
within institutions.
We won't be promoting at all in the setting as we don't have a label until we do get approval next
year. And we do feel that this is a tremendous opportunity once we have the opportunity to
launch into the Stage III setting. Imfinzi is the first medicine to come into a setting and to show
results like the ones that Sean talked through, and so we really see this as a great opportunity for
future growth.
In terms of Calquence, again, the opportunity that we have in front of us and where we launched
into is in the mantle cell lymphoma space. We have ongoing studies in CLL and we'll look forwardto seeing those results come back. We believe that in mantle cell we've got a best-in-class
therapeutic and we have every expectation of pursuing the mantle cell marketplace with that as
the objective of making it as such.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Dave. Alex, BMO. Go ahead.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay. Good morning, folks. Thank you for taking the questions and congratulations on Calquence
and all the progress in Oncology. Just following up on the earlier PACIFIC question, how should
we think about uptake in this setting? Are these patients regularly diagnosed? Or is the rate-
limiting factor going to be the inflow of patients? Just want to get a better sense of how we
should think about the trajectory. And also, could you please provide your outlook on diabetes?
Obviously, getting more and more competitive, another SGLT2 and GLP-1 expected in 2018. So
how should we think about your growth prospects there? Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Alex. Two great questions. One, PACIFIC uptake for you Dave, and then the other
one, the diabetes market, `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, will take this one. So Mark will be happy to talk about
diabetes because we still have great expectations for diabetes. Should we start with PACIFIC,
Dave?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Sure, absolutely. So, Alex, I guess maybe to start on this, and it was the second question within
yours around is this regularly diagnosed? I think it's worth a reminder that so in Stage III, the
design of the study was such that Imfinzi was added in maintenance following
chemoradiotherapy. And so what this means is that actually physicians know very well who their
patients are today in Stage III on chemoradiotherapy, and they have the opportunity to be
thinking about those patients in anticipation of when that set of cycles of chemoradiotherapy will
end and begin thinking about adding Imfinzi onto them.
So there really is a group of patients that today are already in Stage III that are being treated with
CRT. The majority of those patients do achieve disease control and would be, therefore, eligible
for treatment with Imfinzi. Today the primary approach that physicians take is watch and wait, and
they watch and wait basically for a progression to take place. And with Imfinzi now, they have an
opportunity to provide, if approved, active therapy within that setting. So that's how I would think
about the uptake within that setting in that regard.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Mark?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, `
Thanks, Alex, for your question. (00:56:31), I don't know if this is allowed, but can I give like a
bottle of champagne for the first person that asking a question about CV, Metabolic, or
Respiratory? So I'm very happy to answer the question.
So the short answer, we continue to be very positive and excited about possibilities in growth in
the diabetes area, both for Farxiga and the SGLT2 class and also for Bydureon in the GLP-1 class. Ithink the thing to keep in mind with Farxiga is to understand how much more potential there is for
the SGLT2 class. This is a class that's now been shown in clinical studies and also with our CVD-
REAL to have a very material impact on heart failure, CV mortality, on likely renal disease, and the
penetration of the class is still relatively low. So the headroom to grow and make a huge
difference for patients is enormous. We are the leader globally, as I mentioned in my remarks.
We think Farxiga's got a great profile. We're excited about the possibilities with the Duaklir study
coming next year, which is the only study that's looking at primary prevention as well as the
secondary prevention. So really see lots of possibilities for SGLT2 class and very confident in
Farxiga's position.
We're also very excited with the possibilities of launching Bydureon BCise. We've got a product, a
new device, that is very competitive with the weekly devices and a lot of people still need further
glucose and weight control, and so we're looking forward to launching that and ready to go.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Mark. Just one other is that we have a better access profile for next year in the U.S. for
Farxiga, so it's a good plus also. So to make sure we cover as many questions as we can,
because we have a few questions waiting, we will extend the call for 15 minutes to 1:15 UK time.
So I will maybe move to one question online, and I will read it out. I think it's for you, Sean. How
should we view the decision to initiate new people to a trial with the treme/durva combo this
quarter, for instance in liver and the HIMALAYA trial, when the benefit from the combo remains
unclear? Why not wait until more proof of the benefit from the combo is available, not least to
manage your return on investment?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yes. It's great question. So thank you for the question. There are a couple of things about
durva/treme combo that I think are important to capture. The first is that, as you know, with anti-
CTLA-4 even as a single agent, different tumor types have different levels of sensitivity to the
mechanism of action. And we believe, similarly, that different tumor types will likely have different
levels of sensitivity to the Imfinzi/treme combo.
And what that means is that a PFS readout from MYSTIC not only may not read through to an OS
readout from MYSTIC, but lung cancer may not read through to other tumor types. We believe
that we have an opportunity for the combination in hepatocellular carcinoma, liver cancer, and
that's why we initiated the HIMALAYA trial. The HIMALAYA trial has as a comparator the standard
of care Sorafenib, it has Imfinzi monotherapy and then it also has the durva/treme combo. So the
reason we don't wait is because we feel like it's an independent opportunity and, of course,
time-sensitive.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Certainly. And lung would not inform us that much in the energy setting (01:00:04). So `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
from the Credit Suisse. Jo, go ahead.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you. Respecting your one question limit, I'd like you to go back and talk a little bit more
about cost, if possible. The consensus expectation for marketing costs on your core numbers is
for a small decline in 2018. Given that you have so many drugs to launch and you clearly want to
maximize their opportunity, do you think that that is still a realistic expectation? And in terms ofcost, could you also address what may be happening at the gross margin level? And how quickly
it will turn back to being above 80%?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Jo. Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Well, I will start with the second question, Jo. First of all, the gross margin, so you have seen that
the impact on the third quarter, we had the gross margin ratio of 79.6%. We have signaled that
this was unusual and, therefore, I would not recommend that it be used as a measure of
underlying performance. However, we have also said earlier in the year that the first half would
not reproduce in the second half. So I believe for margin ratio, if you look at the year-to-date and
the quarter three 2017, this could provide a good indication for where 2017 is going to finish. And I
do not expect enormous variations for 2018. I will provide more detailed guidance next year in
February. But as of today, what I can say that there shouldn't be large variation in the gross margin
ratio over 2018.
And then your next question, I can only go back to the earlier explanation, which is you have
structural trends, which is a move towards more specialty in oncology care. We continue our cost
discipline. We have productivity initiative. But as you point out, there are also quite a few launches
to support presently and in the near future. All of this will be taken into consideration as we
finalize our budget for next year and I will be happy to comment further with further detail in
February 2018.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. at Redburn. Mark, go ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Yes, thanks very much. I was just going to ask for a little bit more color, if I may, on Lynparza.
Recently, some positive data in glioblastoma. Looks very exciting in combination with
radiotherapy. And, obviously, internally you have some early-stage data for Lynparza in
combination with Imfinzi. So I know you're not going to say specifically which trials you're starting
next year, but can you help us understand sort of how broad this opportunity is in terms of sort of
tumor types and lines of therapy based on the data you've seen so far?
And as you're focusing on the stage 3 unresectable patients, whether there's an opportunity in
combination with chemoradiation? And just related to that, in terms of the Merck $750 million of
option payments, given how competitive the IO and PARP inhibitor space is, under what
circumstances would the full $750 million not be realized over the next 12 months as these trials I
suspect they're going to start in 2018? In the slide, it says a suggestion that $750 million will also
shift into 2019 as well.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, maybe we should start with the second question, which relates to milestones, so I'm going
to give it you, Marc.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `Yeah. This option, for three years – it is an option for three years, 2017, 2018 and 2019. So we
expect this option to continue over the years. But of course as the option there, the decision of
our collaborator. So we expect them to be paid, but obviously we can't be certain.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. So the other question related to Lynparza show in combination with PD-1, but also sGBM.
Assume the reference was to sGBM study done in Scotland that was communicated recently. I
assume, Mark, that's what you are referring to or...
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Not exactly. That seems to be a very broad – potential broad mechanism of action here using
Lynparza in combination with other agents, so just some thoughts there based on the data you
have in-house and that recent study you mentioned, Pascal.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, of course. So it's a bold question about combination with IO and other agents.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yes. So let me go – let me start with the – I'll start with the IO PARP combination. Obviously, we're
not going to share data that we haven't published, but that we have and we know about it, so
hate to disappoint, but that's the way this is going to end up. Obviously, the study we have that's
ongoing is MEDIOLA. MEDIOLA has really demonstrated the tolerability of the combination, which
is our first step in development and that then gives us the opportunity to opportunistically expand
into a variety of other indications, and we've shared some of those. The Lynparza indication BRCA
mutated ovarian cancer and platinum-sensitive HER2-negative breast cancer, small-cell lung
cancer, a place that we've looked at IO, gastric cancer.
So those are things we've shared with everyone. We then will also look opportunistically at what
we would like to initiate as Phase III programs and we'll announce them in due course once we've
started them, and we'll look at outside data as well and decide what opportunities we want to
initiate and complete. With regard to combinations more broadly, I think, again, there are a lot
that we can explore and some of it we'll be using preclinical data to prioritize. Some of it will really
be empirical as we generate safety data on the combinations and then again use the trials to
expand if they're tolerable opportunistically. And I think there was a question also about PACIFIC,
the idea of using a Lynparza IO combination.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
With chemoradiation, yeah.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, okay. Good. Again, as I mentioned there, I think two things going on. One is we want some
evidence that the combination shows some level of activity before proceeding. And then the
other thing I mentioned in that maintenance setting that is important is tolerability, so expanding
the Lynparza Imfinzi and Imfinzi/treme combination gives us the opportunity to assess that
tolerability and generate data to decide which regimen or both seem appropriate for going into
an Imfinzi maintenance setting a bit like PACIFIC.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Thanks, Sean. Mark, as it relates to your specific GBM question, it's a small Phase I study. Got to
remember Lynparza doesn't cross the blood-brain barrier. But in circumstances like with GBM
when the barrier is disrupted, the study shows that it penetrates it. So we'll have to see what we
do with this study, but we also have other DDR agents that do potentially penetrate the blood-
brain barrier and maybe better option than Lynparza. But certainly, a very interesting thing to look
at.
James Gordon at JPMorgan. James, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Sure. Thanks for taking the question. A question on HIMALAYA, which was how does the
HIMALAYA CTLA-4 dosing differ to MYSTIC? Is it higher and is it an ongoing CTLA-4 dose? And if
so, if there are differences in the dosing. What made you choose this different dosing approach?
And similarly I could see a reference to the STRONG trial. Is that a different approach in how
CTLA-4 is administered? Also, just one clarification. I think there was a comment about final OS in
H1 2018, implying that if there were interim OS analyses, they've already taken place. They would
presumably have informed any new approaches you are using in terms of how you were going to
dose CTLA-4?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
So, I'll take the two separately. The first, HIMALAYA, so what we've disclosed about HIMALAYA. So
HIMALAYA, again, is the unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma study. It has four arms. One is a
standard of care, Sorafenib, but then we also have single-agent Imfinzi and then we have – and
that Imfinzi is given monthly at a flat dose of 1500 mg. I think what we have disclosed is that we
have two different doses and regimens for tremelimumab in the combination arms, but we
haven't disclosed what those are exactly and so we're not going to do that now. We'll do that in
due course.
The other question was, one, was that informed by MYSTIC. The answer is no. It wasn't informed
by MYSTIC. It was informed by other data we have. And then the other question was commenting
on an interim. I'll do a couple of things with the interim question, overall survival interim question.
We don't comment on if or when they will occur. I will tell you that if the IDMC doesn't tell us that
there's something to look at, we don't even see the data so that it wouldn't inform anything
because it wouldn't get to the company. We do that in order to preserve the integrity of the
endpoint for the final analysis, which is in the first half as we've mentioned many times of 2018. So
it really isn't MYSTIC that's informing us. It's other information that we have.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Keyur of Goldman Sachs. Keyur, go ahead.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Good afternoon, and thank you for taking my questions, please. Just on 2018, consensus has
more significantly over the last three months and is now forecasting a core EPS to decline relative
to 2017. Do you think that is directionally the right place
for consensus to be at? And then, within that, Marc, you already confirmed that externalization in
2018 would be lower than that in 2017. Would that also be true for the cumulative of
externalization plus other operating income? Thank you.A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Okay, so, let me comment first on your second question. So what I said just a few minutes ago, I
said that the total of external revenues and other income in 2017 would be sort of peaking and,
therefore, one can conclude from there that the level of externalization and other income in 2018
will be at the lower level than 2017. However, I said that this is still part of our strategy and
therefore this is part of business model and will continue. So you can expect a reasonable
amount of externalization revenues and other income also in 2018.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. So we'll take two last questions, one online which is a quick one and then one
from Simon at Exane. So the online question is why is there a regulatory timing change for
ARCTIC from second half of 2017 first half of 2018. Sean, do you want to cover that?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, sure. That is accurate observation. We've updated the timing to delay it from the end of
2017 to the first half of 2018. The regulatory timing change is a knock-on effect from the data
availability timing change being pushed out. The way that ARCTIC is designed, it's third-line or
later non-small cell lung cancer and it has both PFS and OS as primary endpoint. The thing is that
in third-line non-small cell lung cancer, because the patients really don't' have good therapeutic
alternative, progression and death occur fairly close to each other, so that the overall survival and
that there's only one analysis that's triggered and it's triggered by the maturation of overall
survival. And it's just an event rate accumulation that it hasn't accumulated the overall survival.
That's to initiate the database lock and analysis.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. Very clear, Simon, Exane. Simon, go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thanks so much for taking my question. Let me return to the outlook. I know you're not going to
give any guidance on 2018, so let me try my luck on 2019, 2020 and beyond. In terms of the –
how we should think about the margin evolution? At the moment, you have R&D in the high 20s
as a percentage of your sales, which is one of the highest in the industry as you're developing the
pipeline. It's reasonable to assume at some point in the future that, that will decline to a more
normalized level. So I was wondering if you could give some thoughts on how we should think
about how that evolves in the qualitative terms over the coming years? And similarly, with SG&A,
as you achieve this move from primary to specialty care, high 30s SG&A as a percentage of sales
would be somewhat unusual for a specialty-focused company. One would expect it to come
down. And again, how should we think about the longer-term trajectory of that spend? Thanks so
much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Let me just make a general comment and then Marc could kind of add. In 2020, if you kind of
project yourself out to that year, it's an important year for us, and I can tell you it's very firmly onturn the pipeline into a reality for patients of course, but also a commercial reality. It has to turn
into top line and earnings growth.
So you have to think of – as I said earlier, you have to think of our company as we leave the last
patent expiry, Crestor Europe, behind us next year, and you have to see us as a fast-growing
company. So by 2020, we certainly will expect those ratios to drop as the top line grows rapidly.
We have the critical mass and the ratios will drop. We can't give specific numbers, but it is clear
that the goal will be to improve operating margin and the horizon is not that far. It's 2020, and it's
really going to be driven by, of course, cost management, as always, but very much a very good
top line growth.
Marc, any additional...
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
I can only go about the various factors. As I said earlier on, I think our discipline to contain costs
will continue. We'll have a greater productivity because we have several initiatives across the
company. We are moving definitely with the better place that the Oncology products are taking.
We are moving towards a more specialty care company. So therefore, I think the phenomenon of
normalization of the R&D, as well as SG&A, is going to continue, and you are on the right track.
But I also signaled earlier on that we also need to take care in the short term of the launch of
several new products. So all this has to be sort of aggregated for you to derive projections on
2018, 2019 or 2020.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thanks very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. We've got a couple of people still on the line for Q&A. If you send the questions
to the IR team, we'll make sure you get answers back as soon as possible.
So let me now close and summarize again to say that our performance is very much in line with
expectations. We can see the new AZ emerge and we have underlying product sales growing by
5% for this new AstraZeneca.
Our final shows are on track. In fact, doing quite well to the extent that we were able to upgrade
our guidance a little bit for the year and we certainly continue working up to do even better if we
can, but we are on the right track.
We are – as I said, we are very much moving into an execution mode. We're launching Tagrisso.
Dave talked about a $1 billion running rate already and we are going to get first-line indication,
hopefully, very soon. Lynparza is back to growth and the last few weeks have been really, really
pleasing for Lynparza in the U.S.
We are gearing up for the launch of Stage III Imfinzi. Dave said bladder was a really nice way to
get ourselves prepared. We've done quite well actually in a very tough market in the bladder
segment, but really essentially it was about getting electronic processing of claims in the systems
to get formulary listing, and we're getting ready for PACIFIC.
Calquence is our new launch. So we're really proud as a company to make a difference to cancer.
And beyond cancer, we are also making good progress. Brilinta is now a billion-dollar drug andgrowing very, very fast. Farxiga is doing also well. The emerging markets, in particular China,
doing well.
So all of this, as I said earlier, will see us emerge as a fast-growing company in the not-so-distant
future. So thank you so much for your attention, and I also want to take this opportunity to thank
very much our colleagues from around the world for delivering such an outstanding result from a
pipeline viewpoint, but also now from a commercial viewpoint. Thank you so much, everybody.