Q1 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to AstraZeneca's Q1 Results Analyst
Conference Call. Before I hand over the call to `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, AstraZeneca, I would like to read the
Safe Harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca.
By their very nature, forward-looking statements involved risks and uncertainties and results may
differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The
company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
There will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentation.
We will now hand you over to AstraZeneca for the call is about to start.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, everyone. I'm `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director. Welcome to the first quarter results conference call and our
webcast presentation for the investors and analysts. We're in London today where we are also
hosting the Annual General Meeting this afternoon. We have people on the phone and on the
webcast. The presentation is available online for all of you to download.
Please turn to slide 2. This is the Safe Harbor statement, so moving on to slide 3. We planned
today to spend about 30 minutes on the presentation and then leave 30 minutes for Q&A. Intotal, we have exactly one hour together, and we need to end on time as another company has a
conference call starting in one hour.
There is also an option to ask questions online as part of the webcast, but we need to stay on
time. Please limit questions to one per person. This is to make it fair to everyone in the call. Thank
you for your cooperation with that.
As usual, I'm joined by `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, CFO; `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs,, our EVP for Global Portfolio and Product
Strategy, Global Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs; and `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer, our EVP for Global
Medicines Development and our Chief Medical Officer. We also have online `Jamie Freedman, Head of Oncology,
who is our Business Unit Head for Oncology.
Please turn to slide 4. So, this is the agenda today. I move to slide 5. So, before we get started on
financials, just a reminder that we made a refinement in our results announcement this morning
emphasizing actual growth rate alongside growth rate at constant exchange rate. On our
conference call today, we will be making comments on our financial performance at CER, which is
a non-GAAP measure. With the formalities behind me, I will now kick off.
So, in summary, we had a good start to 2017. Total revenue declined in the quarter, primarily
reflecting the tail of the last of U.S. exclusivity for Crestor. New AstraZeneca, which we define as
the three main therapy areas, and the established medicines in the emerging market grew by 6%
in the first quarter. The emerging markets were really a highlight. They were up 9%, and they are
now the biggest sales region in AstraZeneca. Within this region, China continued to perform well,
and saw regulatory approval and launch for Tagrisso and approval for Farxiga.
Our respiratory business delivered a stable performance despite the ongoing challenges in the
U.S., and Symbicort remained the global leader by volume market share.
In diabetes, another competitive field, Farxiga continued to grow in all markets despite subdued
U.S. growth due to affordability programs and managed-care access. Brilinta continued to excel.
Tagrisso has expanded on its impressive launches in the U.S., in Europe and in Japan. And now,
we are also accessing the private market in China.
The core earnings per share decline was limited to 4% given the continued cost focus but also
due to the continued sales progression of the New AstraZeneca.
So now, we'll turn to slide 6. Our pipeline delivered very strong results since the last results
announcement. This is the most extensive set of highlights for a long time. Let me cover a
handful of news items. First of all, Tagrisso news included the conversion from accelerated to full
approval in the U.S. and the EU, and the important approval in China that followed the very
accelerated regulatory review. In the meantime, we've also launched Tagrisso in China with very
good start.
Lynparza received the regulatory submission acceptance and Priority Review in the U.S. for the
second line application in ovarian cancer as well as an Orphan designation for the same cancer in
Japan. As the first ever PARP inhibitor, Lynparza met the Phase III primary endpoint in BRCA-
mutated metastatic breast cancer.
Farxiga received approval in China and the SGLT2 class, including Farxiga, showed encouraging
CV outcomes data in the CVD-REAL real-world study. Further in diabetes, the new Bydureon
autoinjector was accepted for U.S. regulatory review.The disappointing news was that we received a Complete Response Letter for ZS-9 in the U.S.
However, there are more milestones that Sean will speak to later and a good start to 2017 should
bode well for the rest of the year.
Please turn to slide 17. So, when we look at new AstraZeneca, it was another strong quarter
where product sales grew by 6%. All CRP areas contributed and so did the established medicines
in the emerging markets. As we move forward, these areas will be the key growth drivers as we
exit the major patent cliff for Crestor in the U.S. By July this year, comparisons will ease and we
look forward to keeping you updated on our return to growth in product sales. This graph in the
light gray shading shows you that we are reaching the end of the impact of this large patent
expiry.
Please turn to slide 8. As we begin returning to growth, our focus is increasingly on commercial
execution, and we've already launched Bevespi and Qtern this year. At the end of the year, we
anticipate the launch of benralizumab, our first biologic to treat severe uncontrolled asthma. In
bladder cancer, durvalumab's U.S. PDUFA date remains this quarter. We were also encouraged by
the positive Phase III data for Lynparza in metastatic breast cancer.
There's a lot more pipeline news flow expected over the next few quarters, with MYSTIC and
FLAURA as two important highlights. With the opportunity in first-line lung cancer shared between
Tagrisso and our two IO medicines, we have the chance to become a leader in the treatment of
lung cancer. And, so far, we remain very confident in the MYSTIC, FLAURA refinement.
With this, I will now hand over to `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs,.
`Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, `
Thanks, Pascal. I'm pleased to be here with all of you today to talk about our performance of the
growth platform. And we'll get started by moving to slide number 10. So, our growth platforms
continued to demonstrate overall growth in the quarter despite a stable performance in
respiratory. The combined revenue of our five growth platforms represented almost two-thirds of
our total revenue in Q1, and momentum was clearly seen in Emerging Markets and in New
Oncology. I'll touch on the performance of Emerging Markets in Japan, but I'm going to focus
most of my remarks on Respiratory, New Oncology and our cardiovascular and metabolic
platform, which we'll refer to as New CVMD. This groups together Brilinta and our growth
diabetes products and medicines.
Slide 11, please. So, first, turning to Emerging Markets. We continue to remain on track to deliver
our long-term performance goal of product sales in the mid-to-high-single-digit range. Emerging
markets, as Pascal mentioned, is now AstraZeneca's largest sales region with the growth being
driven by the growth products, Brilinta, Farxiga and Respiratory. China continues to be a key driver
where we recently received, as Pascal mentioned, approvals for Farxiga and Tagrisso.
Turn to slide 12. Taking a look at Respiratory, our Respiratory franchise. Sales stabilized in the
quarter after a challenging second half of 2016, with downward pressure in the U.S. being offset
by strong Emerging Market performance. Symbicort continued to grow unit volume, up a few
percent and continues to lead the ICS/LABA class globally.
Product sales were down by 8% reflecting pricing headwinds in the U.S. and competitive dynamics
in Europe. This was offset by the positive Emerging Markets and Established Rest of the World
growth. In the U.S., Symbicort product sales declined by 21%, a slight volume growth.We continue to see significant price rebasing, and, as previously mentioned, we expect the
pricing pressure to be strongest in the first half of the year. In Europe, Symbicort product sales
were down by 9% with continued pressure on both branded and analogue competition. Emerging
Markets delivered growth of 10% with Symbicort sales in China up by 24% in the quarter. And
Pulmicort continues to grow for us up to 14% in the quarter with strong Emerging Markets growth
of 28% mainly driven by China. Bevespi launched successfully in January in the U.S., performing in
line with the previous launch of products in the class, and early feedback from physicians has
been positive. We planned to make a regulatory submission for Bevespi in the EU soon.
Turn to slide 13. Just taking a step back for a moment from sales in Respiratory. We want to – I
want to really believe our overall Respiratory strategy is well positioned to take advantage of the
expected market expansion over the next 10 years. Significant unmet needs still exist with asthma
and COPD currently affecting 600 million individuals worldwide. The inhaled market is forecast to
grow in volume, particularly in the Emerging Markets, with new treatment approaches driving
further expansion. Biologics are forecasts to accelerate growth further to increase penetration in
earlier use of biologics. And our Respiratory portfolio is well positioned for this emerging market –
evolving market with benralizumab, which has been accepted for regulatory review in the U.S., the
EU, and Japan; tralokinumab with Phase III data readout in the second half of this year; and
tezepelumab, which met its primary endpoint in the Phase IIb trial, PATHWAY.
Our ambitions in Respiratory go beyond our current inhaled and biologics portfolio. We will
continue to push the boundaries of science in our early pipeline with the goal of early intervention
and, ultimately, impacting disease modification.
Slide 14, please. Now, turning to new CVMD, which represents our unpatent medicines in CV and
metabolic diseases and that support our return to growth strategy. The new CVMD sales were up
by 6% despite intense competition, the strong performance in Emerging Markets, offsetting a
weaker U.S. performance.
We continue to focus on Brilinta and, in diabetes, Farxiga and Bydureon. Brilinta delivered product
sales of $244 million in the quarter with 27% growth. Notable performance was seen in the U.S., in
China and Emerging Markets. We remain confident that Brilinta will become a $1-billion
blockbuster product this year. Brilinta Emerging Markets sales grew by 54% to $60 million with
China sales increasing by 68%. U.S. sales increased by 24%, reflecting updated guidelines, and, in
Europe, sales were up 12%. And Brilique continued to outperform the OAP market in this region.
In diabetes, we continue to focus on the two medicines that have the potential to offer a CV
benefit, Farxiga and Bydureon. Our diabetes franchise exhibited a softer quarter with minus 1%
sales growth. Product sales in the U.S. declined by 7%, a result of intense pricing pressure in
competition for markets here. Europe exhibited growth of 1% with Farxiga offsetting losses in
Onglyza.
Farxiga maintained a 40% share globally with product sales of $207 million in the quarter and 25%
growth. We expect growth will be supported by the broader knowledge in the medical
community of the CVD-REAL data, confirming the morbidity and mortality benefits of this class of
medicine.
In the U.S., Farxiga outgrew the SGLT2 class and product sales were up 2%. That was due to
affordability programs and managed care access. Farxiga delivered strong growth in Europe and
Emerging Markets with sales up 24% and 90%, respectively.
In Bydureon, we returned to growth in the first quarter with 14% growth driven by the U.S. andexcited to announce that the FDA had accepted the autoinjector for regulatory review in the U.S.
Please turn to slide 15. In Japan, we returned to growth. Product sales were up 3% in the first
quarter driven by Tagrisso, Farxiga and Nexium. And this included a 6% decline in pricing as a
result of national price cut in April 2016.
Tagrisso sales continue to grow and the Japanese yen sequential quarterly growth was 7%. T790
testing levels are now at 85% of which about a quarter is from the new blood-based test for the
T790 mutation. In March, Lynparza in Japan, Lynparza was awarded the Orphan Drug Designation
for ovarian cancer, which ensures a shorter regulatory review period. We anticipate a second new
oncology launch in Japan in 2018.
Slide 16, please. Finally, turning to New Oncology. 2017 continues to be an exciting year for us.
New Oncology product sales of Tagrisso, Lynparza and the U.S. Iressa were $236 million in the
quarter. Tagrisso continue to demonstrate strong uptake in the U.S., Europe and Japan with
global product sales of $171 million and 48 regulatory approvals.
In China, we have launched Tagrisso in April with a few months ahead of industry benchmark, just
after a few weeks between the approval and the first sales. Really remarkable performance by
our teams across the globe and in China to make this happen. And this included obtaining the
import license.
Lynparza Q1 product sales were $57 million, up 32%. We continue to see growth driven by a
higher testing rates and market penetrations. We also saw an increase in competitive pressure in
the U.S. We will look to expand the current news based on strong SOLO-2 trial data in second-line
maintenance treatment of ovarian cancer, and we look forward to further label expansion for
outside of ovarian cancer like breast cancer where we have new data now.
So, to conclude, overall, we saw a solid performance from our growth platform. We're looking
forward to the next wave of launches. And together, they will drive the emergence of the New
AstraZeneca.
Thank you for listening and I'm happy now to turn this over to Marc.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Mark, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next three minutes taking you
through our financial performance in the first quarter.
So, please turn to slide 18. As usual, I will begin by showing the reported P&L numbers before
turning to the core number. Total revenue declined by 10% in the quarter, impacted by the entry
of the U.S. multiple generic for Crestor in July last year. Externalization revenue increased by 3%.
As previously highlighted, we expect a sustainable and ongoing path of the externalization
revenue to increase over time. And in the first quarter, this increased to 32% of total revenue
from 21% in the fall of 2016.
Please turn to slide 19. If we now turn to the core performance, we can look further down the P&L
and see that our gross margin in the quarter was down at constant exchange rate by 1
percentage point to 83.6%, effecting a change in mix of sales, including the impact of patent
expiries, partly offset by the resilience of some legacy medicine in established market and the
growing influence of specialty care medicine. The absolute gross margin benefited from foreign
exchange. It is important to note that we do not anticipate such a high gross margin to continue
over the full year.However, I would like to make an additional remark. There was no real change in gross margins
from Emerging Markets now being our largest sales region. Core R&D cost declined by 3% in the
quarter and core SG&A cost declined by 12%. These declines reflect our focus on cost control and
support our full year commitment of keeping core R&D cost broadly stable, as well as reducing
core SG&A cost. Again, we do not anticipate such a similar reduction in core SG&A cost over the
full year.
Core other operating income increased to $333 million, including a gain on disposal of short-term
investment, as well as a milestone received from Pfizer. The core tax rate in the quarter was 17%,
which was within the 16% to 20% range we have indicated for the full year. As Pascal mentioned a
moment ago, the core EPS decline of 4% was limited by the favorable sales progression of new
AstraZeneca and our relentless focus on cost.
We turn to slide 20. This slide, which is now familiar to you, illustrates the important progress we
have made towards taking cost out of the business. As just mentioned, core R&D decreased by
3% whereas core SG&A cost decreased by 12%. The SG&A decline, equivalent to 1 percentage
point of total revenue, was partly driven by the simplification in the launch standard for the
centralization of shared services including back and mid-office activity. We recently launched the
Global Business Service organization which, over time, will increase the level of integration and
allow us to focus on cost further. We remain committed to continue reducing our cost base this
year.
Please turn to slide 21. To conclude, I want to reiterate the 2017 guidance which is at constant
exchange rate. I expect a low to mid-single-digit percentage decline in total revenue. Core EPS is
anticipated to decline by low to mid-teens percentage. Outside of guidance, the total (20:03)
revenue and other operating income is still expected to be ahead of that in 2016. Sustainable and
ongoing income is expected to increase as a proportion of external revenue in 2017 and beyond.
We anticipate that core R&D cost will be broadly in line with 2016. And as I just mentioned now,
we plan to make further reduction in core SG&A costs. As I highlighted before, variation in
performance between quarters can be expected to continue with year-on-year comparison
beginning to ease in the second half, as we begin to lap the impact on the loss of Crestor in the
United States.
Our capital allocation priority has remained unchanged. We will continue to strike a balance
between the interests of the business, of financial creditors and our shareholders. After providing
for investment in the business, supporting the progressive dividend policy and maintaining our
strong investment grade credit rating, we will keep under review any potential investment in
value-enhancing and immediately earnings-accretive opportunities.
With that, I will hand over to Sean.
`Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Thank you, Marc. I would now like to run through the late-stage pipeline event since the last
results announcement, the highlights of recent data presentations and then wrap up with a look
at our upcoming news flow.
Please turn to slide 23. As you can see here, it was quite a busy quarter with progress in all
therapy areas. And as you will see through my presentation, we anticipate this to continue
through the year. To highlight approvals achieved, we had conversion to full approval for Tagrisso
in the United States and the EU. Approvals for Tagrisso and Farxiga in China, Qtern was approved
in the United States for type-2 diabetes and the approval for Siliq for psoriasis by our partner.For regulatory submissions accepted, Lynparza was accepted in the United States for second line
ovarian cancer supported by data from the SOLO-2 trial and Study 19 trial. This submission was
granted priority review. The Bydureon autoinjector in the U.S. was accepted. This anticipated
approval will make the medicine more convenient for patients to administer. Symbicort,
specifically for exacerbations in COPD, and benralizumab in China for severe, uncontrolled
asthma.
We received a second Complete Response Letter for ZS-9 related to manufacturing issues. We
remain committed to bringing this important medicine to patients with hyperkalaemia and are
currently working with global regulatory agencies to accomplish this goal.
To complete the picture, we had the positive Phase III trial for Lynparza OlympiAD, and this
compared Lynparza to chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer. As many of you know, we will
have these data to present at ASCO in June.
Please turn to the next slide. At recent oncology medical meetings, we have kept up the positive
momentum with data presentations. We have presented updated bladder cancer data from
Study 1108. As a reminder, we are under regulatory review in the U.S. following our mid-
December announcement of submission acceptance with a PDUFA date in this quarter.
We had additional concordance data on PD-L1 diagnostic assays with an effort to reconcile the
various existing tests for PD-L1. We had Lynparza's SOLO-2 data at the Society of Gynecologic
Oncology meeting presented in March, and early data at the AACR meeting on a number of our
medicines and innovative biomarkers, including more advanced data on our TLR7/8 agonist in
solid tumors, and Lynparza combined with temozolomide in second-line small cell lung cancer.
You can turn now to slide 25. With this slide, I'll conclude on oncology. This slide will be familiar to
you, demonstrating our commitment and expected upcoming immuno-oncology data readout
from Phase III trials ongoing.
First, a few updates. We had a last patient begin dosing in KESTREL since the last update on the
pipeline, as well as in DANUBE for the global trial which excludes China. We had first patient
dosed in PEARL, which is a first-line IO trial, specifically in Asian patients. And we also had a first
patient dosed in CASPIAN. CASPIAN is not listed on this slide. It is a Phase III trial in small-cell lung
cancer.
For data, in mid-2017, as you all know, we'll have the first data for MYSTIC. This will be the final PFS
analysis. We're confident in the recent trial refinement that we discussed last quarter and shared
with you. You will also note that some of the refinements have found their way into other
programs in other indications, namely the NEPTUNE and KESTREL trial.
In the second half of 2017, we will have the first data for ARCTIC in third-line PD-L1 low negative
non-small cell lung cancer patients. This is pushed out from our expectation in the first half of 2017
because of a slower accrual of events as we described in the results announcement that we
articulated this morning. Further, in lung, we expect data from PACIFIC in Stage III unresectable
non-small cell lung cancer. We will also see KESTREL data in first-line head and neck cancer.
Next year again will be a busy year with final overall survival data from both MYSTIC and NEPTUNE
in non-small cell lung cancer. Of course, there are interims for overall survival before that in this
trials. Further, we expect readout from DANUBE in bladder and EAGLE in head and neck cancer.
We have also added our new POSEIDON trial to the overview now. It's our durva + treme combo
with chemotherapy, also durva with chemotherapy and compared to standard-of-carechemotherapy. This is based on the encouraging Phase I data we shared with you late last year at
the World Lung Cancer meeting. We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress of our
upcoming announcements in our IO portfolio.
To slide 27, please. Moving on to data from our CVMD portfolio. At the ACC meeting in March,
we shared the results of an exciting real-world evidence study called CVD-REAL. This is the first
large real-world evidence study of its kind evaluating the rate of hospitalization for heart failure
and of death from any cause in patients with type-2 diabetes on SGLT2 inhibitors compared to
other medicines for the treatment of diabetes. The study included more than 300,000 patients
with type-2 diabetes from around the world and approximately 87 of these patients did not have
existing cardiovascular disease.
The CVD-REAL results are a robust, consistent, and confirmatory data set showing that the
treatment with the SGLT2 class cuts the rate of hospitalization for heart failure and deaths from
any cause by approximately 50%. This is the first of several comparative analyses of CVD-REAL.
The study is ongoing and there will be future analysis conducted and presented using this data
set.
On the right hand panel of the slide, other outcomes trials are underway including EXSCEL with
Bydureon with data expected in the second half of this year, which is earlier than previously
expected. Again, the change in expectation for data readout is due to a faster than expected
event rate. We also have DECLARE with Farxiga, with data in 2019 at the latest. We have two
additional Farxiga outcomes trials started this year, one of those in heart failure and one in chronic
kidney disease, both in patients both with and without diabetes.
And I can also share with you today that we recruited the last patient into the STRENGTH study for
Epanova. This is an outcome trial in combination with statin conducted in 22 countries worldwide
with data expected in 2019. In summary, our goal in CVMD is to reduce morbidity, mortality, and
organ damage by addressing multiple risk factors of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases for
the long-term benefit of patients.
If we now go on to slide 28, this is our news flow that is expected in 2017 and 2018. And you can
see from the slide, these are both very busy and very exciting years for AstraZeneca. By the end
of 2017, we expect to have received six additional regulatory decisions and will have had the first
data readouts from MYSTIC, PACIFIC, ARCTIC and KESTREL as well as for SOLO-1 first-line
ovarian cancer with Lynparza and FLAURA in front-line EGFR mutant non-small-cell lung cancer
with Tagrisso. We will see the potential for a fast market opportunity with acalabrutinib reading
out and anticipate submitting this year as well.
Outside of oncology, we'll see data from the Bydureon outcomes trial EXSCEL as mentioned and
the first Phase III data for tralokinumab in severe, uncontrolled asthma. In 2018, we will have
additional regulatory decisions based on ongoing reviews and an additional round of first data
readout, including for NEPTUNE, DANUBE and EAGLE. We'll also see data on roxadustat for
anemia, benralizumab and PT010 in COPD and anifrolumab in lupus. With this much going on, you
will likely appreciate that we are busy moving the pipeline forward to bring benefit to patients
worldwide and as well to benefit our shareholders.
And with that, I will hand back to Pascal for closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Please turn to slide 30. Before we end, let me quickly summarize. First of all, we
had a good start to 2017 in particular the Emerging Markets now became our largest sales region.New AstraZeneca grew product sales by 6%, and our financials on track, and we reconfirmed our
guidance. More importantly, the pipeline is advancing apace with 12 new potential medicines in
Phase III or under registration. The oncology pipeline in particular is progressing ahead of our
expectations, with Tagrisso, Lynparza and immuno-oncology programs progressing quite nicely.
We're looking forward to sharing further news flow that we think has the potential to mark a
meaningful step change for AstraZeneca. In particular, the first-line data for Tagrisso, and of
course, the MYSTIC trial data in lung cancer. We'll now go to Q&A.
Q&A
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We'll also take written questions from the webcast. Can I please remind everybody to limit
questions to one to be fair to all of our callers? And I'd like to thank you in advance, and we'll take
the first question from `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America. Sachin, over to you.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of America. One question for Sean on POSEIDON. I wondered if you could
just briefly review your perspective of the data you presented at World Lung and whether you
have any additional data in-house, in particular focusing on your perspective on the safety of the
triple given that physician feedback seems to be some concern around (32:42) toxin isolation.
And then if you could just touch on what chemo sequencing you're looking at in POSEIDON, given
the study at World Lung, I think, investigated concurrent chemotherapy. Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Thank you for the question, Sachin. So, we do have a little more data than what's presented at
World Lung, and that's just because you have a cutoff time for when you submit an abstract and
actually do the presentation and prepare it. And then we have more follow-up. I will say, it's Phase
I data, so it is limited. But what we felt we saw and what we presented and what has borne out so
far is that we get the toxicity of the combo and the toxicity of the chemo, but we don't really see
an enhancement of the two when combined, so that we're able to tolerate giving them together,
and we are giving them together concurrently. I guess that was the other question about what
does POSEIDON do. It's very similar to what you saw at World Lung in terms of how they are
given because, as we said, we felt that that was a manageable toxicity profile.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Tim Anderson at Bernstein. Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. A question on ARCTIC and the delay. You say that events are occurring more slowly,
but this is a 3rd-line lung cancer trial which is a fast progressive disease and chemo doesn't work
very well in 3rd line so it's a pretty low bar to cross, so I thought that events would actually come
in quite fast. Now, I'm wondering if you can say whether you've changed any aspect of the
statistical design of ARCTIC here in recent months such that it would delay the readout.
And then second question on the ELCC abstracts from yesterday for the upcoming European
Lung meeting. There's an abstract from the Lung-MAP study that shows quite weak response
rate with the durva monotherapy even in PD-L1 positive patients, which is kind of surprising and
I'm wondering if you can give us your thoughts here.A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
The first question is did we – I'm going to try to simplify it. The question is did we change the
analysis plan or the level of maturity we asked for out of ARCTIC in order to do the analysis. The
answer to that is no. We have made no changes to the analysis plan. The maturity required was
pre-specified in order to demonstrate the treatment effect we were anticipating and looking at
the number of patients that we had on the trial. Reminding you that ARCTIC is a bit complicated.
It has a 3-to-2 to 2-to-1 randomization for its different arms.
We had forecast that we will be getting you data sooner. So, obviously, the event rate is slower
than we anticipated as well, but that's the reality of it. It's not something that we changed or
manipulated. It's pre-specified and it's taking that long for the events to accumulate. That could
be because our treatment effect is good or, to be honest, it could be that we got more favorable
prognosis patients than we had anticipated, and so they're just doing better independent of
treatment.
With regard to a question on ELCC, the small data set, it's absolutely true that the point estimate
bounces around. When we look at our data in aggregate, we remain confident. 1108 is probably
the thing we've presented most on and shared most with regard to PD-L1 positive and
durvalumab. We feel that durvalumab is quite consistent with the class, so that we have
confidence in our program.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. Matt Weston at Credit Suisse. Go ahead, Matt.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you very much. It's a follow-up question on ARCTIC. Sean, you've previously said that you
require the treme arm within ARCTIC to basically just justify or satisfy the FDA requirement on
contribution of component for MYSTIC. And so now, I'd like to understand the filing strategy
assuming we get a positive outcome for MYSTIC in the middle of the year, whether you will have
to delay filing until you get that treme arm out of ARCTIC or whether or not you would anticipate
filing MYSTIC with that data pending and then add it to the file once ARCTIC mature?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
We don't anticipate any delay to the filing of MYSTIC, if MYSTIC, it turns out to be positive and
enables filing of the mono. In this case, the question is of course of the combo, we remain very
confident in our contribution of component strategy and that we will have the data to enable that
should the outcome of the trial support it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. James Gordon, JPMorgan. James, go ahead.
Q - `James Daniel Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hello. Thanks for taking the question. A question on the POSEIDON study. So, as I understand it,
it's got the two new oncology ingredients and the chemo and there'll be an arm that's chemo
plus PD-L1. Is there a possibility of getting a chemo/PD-L1 label on the basis of the study if the
triple or therapy approach wasn't successful? I mean in that case, is this, in a way, an insurance
policy around MYSTIC as well?A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
So, let me deal with the insurance policy one first, and then I'll go back and talk about how the
trial – what positive result would look like in that trial. So, it really isn't an insurance policy. We have
not lost our confidence in MYSTIC. What we have, and I've mentioned this before, what we have
seen and gotten feedback from treating physicians is that there's a perception that immuno-
oncology treatments are slower onset than chemotherapy and there're a subgroup of patients
that progress very, very quickly, and they do not feel with that subgroup of patients that they can
deny them chemotherapy.
So, what we're doing is we're giving them a complete data set to enable them to decide what
does chemo-IO look like versus the chemo that is given as standard of care still in many places in
the world and also, obviously, in the first line in PD-L1 low expressors. The trial is designed to
compare chemo-IO or chemo-IO plus IO versus standard-of-care chemotherapy. So, if you beat
standard-of-care chemotherapy, you have a positive trial.
It will then be a judgment call on benefit/risk if both arms were to be positive, whether you felt
like the chemo-chemo or that IO-IO-chemo was superior to IO only with chemotherapy, and that
will be a judgment that we would make and also that regulators would want to look at and
consider.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. `Jack Scannell, Analyst, UBS Ltd., UBS. Jack?
Q - `Jack Scannell, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Hi. Thank you very much for taking my question. Just one on the diabetes franchise. We've been
doing some work on formulary status. It looks like Onglyza's probably been losing a bit of
formulary coverage over the last two or three years, Tradjenta gaining and Januvia slightly down.
And in the SGLT2s, Farxiga holding with Jardiance going up and Invokana probably losing a bit.
And I'm just trying to reconcile that because some of the light diabetes sales we saw in Q1, does
this reflect any particular change in the sort of contracting dynamics that we're seeing or is
something else going on?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. That question is for you, Mark, `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs,.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, `
Yeah. I think these are both – certainly the DPP-4s and also the SGLT2s are very competitive
markets. And so, the contracting challenges and pricing pressures have been strong and continue
to have some amount of that going forward. I wouldn't say that – and that's had an impact on the
sales growth for all of the companies and the product.
We believe that this is the class that is going to be a key factor of really the foundation of
diabetes therapy in the future. We're really focusing and continuing to grow growth of the class
and, of course, Farxiga. And maintaining good access is the key part of that priority, and we're
going to continue to support the strong access that we have for Farxiga.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Thanks, Mark. Yeah, remember that we are in the early days of this class. It's still quite small
relative to DPP-4s and other classes of oral anti-diabetic agent. So, the key is really to drive the
cardiovascular benefit. Today, we can't really promote that, of course, but over time this is where
the – what's going to drive the class.
`Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. at Exane. Simon, go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thanks for taking the question. Just moving on to respiratory, I noticed that the filing timeline for
PT010, the LAMA/LABA/ICS triple appears to have shifted from 2018 to 2019. I wonder if you
could give us some color on the reasons for that delay. Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. What it really has to do with, it has to do with – in the United States primarily, the rate of
enrollment and how long we will have follow-up in order to enable filing in COPD. And so, it just is
an adjustment based on actual data as we enroll the trials versus what we had forecast.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. There is an online question here. Maybe I should take one of those webcast
questions. From Mattias Häggblom at Swedbank. And the question is, given the fact that MYSTIC,
as most other IO trials, have an open-label trial design, investors may have concerns that some of
the recent amendments to the trial design of MYSTIC include amendment of co-primary
endpoint. But also the fact that a decision to start an IO triplet study – sorry, that includes chemo –
sorry, they are adding comments, that includes chemo as announced today. Sorry. The question is
becoming longer.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
How do you – do you want me to just go ahead and...
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Why don't you try, yeah.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
All right. So, yes. MYSTIC is an open-label trial design. Now, for a second, I want to explain. When
you compare IO to chemo, you will be unblinded. The investigator will be unblinded and the
reason is that if you look at, for instance, the blood count in the patient, you will know that if you
get myelosuppression, the patient is receiving chemo versus IO. So, it's not really possible to
blind.
So how do we solve that? So, the way we solve that for the PFS primary endpoint is that we have
the response and progression called by an independent radiographic review center, a blinded
independent radiographic review center. So, they don't know the treatment assignments of
patients. They just get the scans and read them over time. So that's for PFS, how you create the
blind.
For overall survival, this is not an endpoint that's really sensitive to knowing the treatment
assignment or not knowing the treatment assignment. So there, it's less important. And that'show the study's design incorporates that. That, by the way, has nothing to do with the recent
amendments. That was the design of the trial from the very beginning.
And what was the other? And then a decision to start an IO triplet that includes chemotherapy. I
think I addressed this already. That's more a pragmatic decision. We believe that there will be a
place for chemotherapy in some patients with non-small cell lung cancer regardless of where IO
comes in because physicians do see these rapid progressors, they do see that the standard of
care doublet chemo was approved and used based on a survival benefit. So, some patients will
probably get chemotherapy and we just want to really establish for physicians, what is the benefit
of using the two together and what is the safety profile?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Just like to remind everybody actually that this IO chemo strategy, we
mentioned a long time ago that we would explore that combination for the reasons that Sean just
highlighted. But we also said that we wanted to explore IOIO chemo. And as a result, did this
Phase I study that of course we had to wait for. But it's not a new event. It's not a kneejerk
reaction to any new development. It was part of our strategy from sort of day one really.
So, there's a `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc at Morgan Stanley. Do you want to go ahead, Vincent?
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Thank you very much for taking my question. A question on Lynparza. So, what should we expect
in terms of sales dynamic for Lynparza, notably in the context of the 4% decline in the U.S. in Q1? I
mean, should we expect sales to grow before the SOLO-2 label update? And also, would you
anticipate off-label use in breast based on OlympiAD?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Vincent. Jamie, do you want to cover this question?
A - `Jamie Freedman, Head of Oncology `
Yeah. Sure. Thanks for the question. So, we have seen some competitive pressure in the
marketplace in the U.S. and that's due to early entry of competitors. But we're optimistic because
we've had positive news. So, for the SOLO-2 results in second-line maintenance was presented
at ASGL (46:33). They were positive and we filed in the U.S. and it's undergoing Priority Review.
We hope, with SOLO-2, will be introduced in the tablet formulation, which is important, in the third
quarter. In Japan, we've received orphan drug designation, and that will accelerate the approval
timeline. And then, as was mentioned previously with the positive OlympiAD results that we
reported, that will be actually presented at ASCO in metastatic breast cancer. We will be the first
PARP inhibitor in that new indication.
So, overall, we do expect an uptick in sales particularly in the third quarter, and then at the end of
the year the SOLO-1 readout in first line maintenance, which should also help as well.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Vincent, I think I just want to add – this is Sean. I just want to add for you that, as Jamie mentioned,
with the presentation of the OlympiAD data at ASCO, that does also give us the opportunity to
seek a guideline recommendation for Lynparza in metastatic breast cancer. And at least in theUnited States, if that is granted, that does sometimes drive some use ahead of regulatory
approval.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. His real first name is Vincent by the way, but for today we'll call him Vincent.
`Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC at Leerink. Seamus, do you want to go ahead and ask your question?
Seamus?
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Yeah. Hello. Can you hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Okay. Great. Thanks. So, I just have two questions. The first one really is on the quality of the
earnings and statements that your views that this was a good quarter. We're seeing more
externalization built in to the P&L, and I'm increasingly challenged to think about the quality of the
earnings after, let's say, in the next couple of years. Can you talk a little bit about where we
should be seeing SG&A going?
In preliminary comments, I think you said that 12% down on SG&A this quarter is not sustainable
for this year, and I'm just trying to understand why that's the case as the arms race globally
continues to come down. And the second question is the enthusiasm around the Emerging
Markets, can you help us better understand why you're so enthusiastic about the growth in the
Emerging Markets when China was such a slow grower in the mix? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. So, first question, I'll ask Marc to cover it better. Let me just say, as far as externalization, as
we mentioned before, we have an overall target and a guidance for the year, but this is going to
bounce around a little bit from quarter-to-quarter. So, it's not because we have a large quarter
that you should think, okay, this is becoming very, very, very large. It's going to vary from quarter-
to-quarter because, of course, the timing of this deal varies a little bit.
As far as the specific SG&A question, Marc, do you want to cover this?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. Just relatively briefly, the minus 12% in reduction of SG&A in the first quarter, you need to
remember, we initiated a program of productivity increase starting second quarter of 2016. So,
we have, as a comparative base, the first quarter of 2016, and therefore, the 12% is more
impressive than the rate that we will have for the end of the year. I don't want to give you a
precise number, but I can only repeat today that we will have a further reduction on our SG&A
cost base for the full year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. And in term of midterm outlook, we've always said we don't typically guide. But on
top of it, in this instance, it would be really difficult to guide before we have a better view of whatread out, and that will define the type of portfolio of products we have. And as a result, it will
shape to some extent the SG&A ratio moving forward. So, we really could not give any sort of
guidance even if we wanted to at this stage in term of midterm and beyond 2017. We have 2017
guidance, of course, but beyond that it would be hard.
Emerging Markets, `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, this time. Do you want to cover it?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, `
Yes. So, first of all, actually, our growth in the first quarter in China has been solid. Now, in the
actual, it was a low-single-digit number. But, in constant exchange rate, actually, we had high-
single-digit growth. And keep in mind, we do have some impact on the deals that we've done in
China. For example, we had a couple of different partnerships in anesthesia, cardiovascular.
And so, actually, our China business continues to achieve double-digit growth. And so, that,
specifically China, I'm very confident we continue to outgrow the market. We're the number two
company there. So, our position in China remains very strong. Overall, we're positive about
Emerging Markets because the unmet need is so substantial across the region. And I think, of
course, there are going to be ups and downs in the Emerging Market economy because there's
volatility. But long term and overall, we definitely are very confident in that.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
If I can follow up, just a quick question. Can you just give us a sense of when perhaps we might
start to see leverage in the P&L of those markets then? Because I think that's another key
question.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, `
There was also a question online about the difference in margin between Emerging Markets and
the group as a whole. Our Emerging Market business is definitely profitable. It's not as profitable
as the whole group, as U.S. or Europe. What we've said in the past is that it's a bit less profitable
than Europe. But this is not just growth, this is a very – it is a profitable business for us and it is
very sustainable.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
All right. Thanks very much, Mark. Moving on to the next question, Andrew Baum at Citi. Andrew,
do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Hi. A couple of questions, please. On strategies for prosecuting your PDL1, you referred to the
rationale for looking at chemo combinations as one to address subgroup of patients who
urgently need treatment for asymptomatic and require shrinkage. Should I interpret this as
indicating that you view the role of chemo as an additive one rather than necessarily showing
benefits through immuno-potentiation? That's the first question.
And then the second question is I'd be interested in Sean and the team's view on the reported
phenomenon of hyper progression with some of the PD1 and PDL1 assets. And indeed, especially
in your head and neck trials given some of the recent literature, where do you think you are
maybe seeing hyper progression in some of the patients in the other arm of that trial? Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `So, with regard to the immuno-potentiation question, I mean that's a theoretical possibility but we
really take a pragmatic view as I've described, that this is chemo and the benefit you get from
that, plus IO and you get time to get that started.
With regard to the progression, we haven't seen evidence of it. We would say, in aggregate, we
don't really see heightened progression or convincing story for heightened progression. With
regard to the trial you're referring to, they're blinded now. So, we don't know anything about the
data and I can't really answer question in the context double-blinded trial.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
But I guess that at least your lung trials there are open label, and if you're having a patient who's
rapidly falling off the cliff, you may get some medical liaisons being approached in relation to the
particular patient. That's what I was referring to.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical Officer `
Some lung cancer patients do very badly and progress very quickly. That happens on all their
therapies, that we've seen nothing as a pattern specific to IO.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. Thanks, Sean. So, we'll come back again later if we have time, but just trying to keep one
question per person. Emmanuel Papadakis from Barclays. Emmanuel, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Emmanuel D. Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays `
Sure. That was very good pronunciation. There's a quick one, quick question for Marc on cash
flow. You had a relatively large negative working capital movement in the first quarter. I was
wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on that. And also, maybe a bit of color on
expectations for operating and free cash flow for the full year in terms of comparability to last
year. Should we expect it to be in line or perhaps slightly ahead? Thank you.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank for the questions. First of all, we'll address the valuation quarter one 2017 versus quarter
one 2016. So, the valuation, as you pointed out, is mostly on the need of working capital. There
are several factors, but one of them is the increase of inventories that we need to have to
prepare for the new launches. There is a reduction of managed market rebates payable in the
United States as we have had reductions, sales reductions on products like Crestor, for instance,
which was carrying very high rebates last year. Also, an overall reduction of payables because we
have reduced on overall cost base and therefore the payables on the SG&A has reduced. There
is also another factor, that's the factoring that we did. We had increased the factoring in the
quarter one 2016, so that's – which did not happen in 2017. So, these four elements are explaining
the large variation in the need of working capital.
Regarding the outlook for the year, obviously, we're going to continue our effort on cash
generation. We are putting pressures on receivable as well as on payable. A bit more difficult to
do on inventories, which we won't be able to contend so much because we are launching new
products and, in particular, biologics, which require larger inventory.A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. Let's take a webcast question from Marietta Miemietz at Primavenue. The question
is for you, Mark, `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs,. Can you give us an update of the patient flows between categories
in diabetes. Are physicians becoming more comfortable with the SGLT2 class? Is the class mainly
gaining from DPP-4 due to additional benefits? Any indicators that SGLT2s are delaying the start
of injectable CRP? Any color on how patient flow into and between the categories is changing as
SGLT2 class gains traction? Any indication would be great.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, Global Portfolio and Product, Global Medical Affairs, `
So, physicians are definitely getting more comfortable with class, and I think the best way to
describe how that's evolving is earlier use of SGLT2. So, we're seeing more use in naïve patients.
We're seeing more use immediately after metformin ahead of DPP-4s. And we're seeing
physicians adding it on to the other therapies sooner and more early in the process.
So far, I can't say that we've got a strong indication of a big change when injectable therapy is
starting. But I think both that – all of this is going to head towards SGLT2s as people better
appreciate the kind of actual benefits of the class. And we're certainly doing our part to educate
around the overall benefits in glucose control and weight loss of SGLT2.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Good. Thanks very much, Mark. We'll have to stop here. We are just getting to almost 1:00. So,
thank you very much again for your great interest in AstraZeneca, and I wish you all a great day.
Thank you. Bye-bye.