Q2 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. Our first is from the line of `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG at UBS. Patrick, please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Thanks very much, operator. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying a few words about, everybody. I would have two questions please. The
first one to `Harald Krüger, please go ahead., in terms of the powertrain strategy. It feels that the German car makers
are spending a lot of time and a lot of resources on fighting for a technology from the past,namely the diesel, while left and right, other competitors, also in the premium segment, are
accelerating the shift to battery electric. I appreciate that BMW is a leader in plug-in hybrids. But
what about the implementation of 48 volt on gasoline to mitigate the negative impact – potential
negative impact from a declining diesel share in the mix, and why don't you just go for a more
aggressive battery electric vehicle strategy? And in that context, is the surprise that you alluded
to that we might – that we will see at the Frankfurt Auto Show, going to be in the field of a battery
electric product?
And the second question, to `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, is related to the cash generation in the second
quarter. Isolated Q2 cash flow was just about €400 million for the industrial `business, the substantial investments needed for electrification and autonomous driving. This. After – if you
can give us a bit more granularity, it seems there were some negative items in the operating cash
flow in the second quarter, is that related to provisions of the past that have been – become cash
outflow in the quarter, what's behind there? Any explanation would be much appreciated. Thank
you.
A - Unverified Participant
Patrick, we start with Harald and then Nicolas. Harald, please.
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
Hello, Patrick. The first question is on the ICE and the EVs, and plug-in hybrid and 48 volts. As you
know, we have already, which I mentioned in my speech, 150,000 electrified cars are on the road.
We will target, this `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for, 100,000 electrified vehicles as being sold this `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for. We are well on
target, with 42,500 for the first half of the `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for. So, as you mentioned as well, we are clearly the
number one in plug-in hybrids in our segment. The BMW i3 sales have increased in the first half of
2017 as well significantly, by 45%, and as we are putting a lot of emphasis on the electrification of
all our products and brands, there will be a MINI electric in the `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for 2019. There will be a BMW `X3, which will also be available for the first time as an M Performance model.
electric in 2020. The BMW iNEXT will come in 2021, and we will show a surprise in Frankfurt, but
it's too early to talk about.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Harald. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Patrick, maybe to start with, I would say the free cash flow in the first half, and we should look at
the first half and not quarter-by-quarter, was strong in 2017. We are definitely aiming to exceed
slightly our target of €3 `billion, partly due to the impact of the major investments I just referred to. for the full `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for. If we go a little bit more into the details of the
operating cash flow and why there has been a change in the other items in Q2, those items are
related to various items in our `business, the substantial investments needed for electrification and autonomous driving. This, amongst those, payout of dealer bonuses, payout of
personnel-related accrued liabilities such, for example, as we are just ahead of the vacation
period, vacation pay, so it's a combination of many different items, but I want to confirm, we will
achieve our guidance of more than €3 `billion, partly due to the impact of the major investments I just referred to. for the full `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Thanks very much.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. Next question, please.Operator
Our next question is over to the line of Harald Hendrikse at Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead,
Harald. Your line is open.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Perfect. Thanks guys, for taking my question. Can I just go to the Finco, one of my favorite topics,
obviously. You make some comments this morning regarding the cost of goods sold and the rise
of the costs of goods sold in the Finco regarding changes in the lease portfolio and the lease
terminations. Obviously, the concern we have already on some of the residuals in the U.S., you
make some comments this morning about residuals in the UK and that you may be a little bit
cautious, more cautious in the UK, and then obviously our concern, or certainly my concern, on
diesel residuals. Can you talk about all of that, and particularly what you were talking about this
morning, and how you see that developing going forward?
And then related to that, what can the Finco do to protect itself as much as possible from those
future falls in residuals? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Harald. Your question will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Harald, you are referring to the two very relevant markets, to the U.S. and to the UK. We have
seen, as I stated already this morning, that used car prices have stabilized, and definitely the
slight downward trend we have experienced, and we were discussing it in the Q1 conference, has
definitely slowed. We, as you might have seen, looking at our west (32:41) numbers we balance,
in a smart way, allocation of production to the U.S. market in order not to over-push the U.S.
market, and I would not be surprised if, in the UK, we would implement a similar strategy, as we
see definitely a trend in the UK market, which is shifting in – a little bit in the wrong direction.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. Next question.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
If I can just (33:18) whether you see any trends at all? Or B) do you see – what can you do as a
Finco to protect yourself? Again, can you do anything on the allocations on diesel specifically?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
On diesel, we see, for the time being, because this is a European phenomenon, diesel stable
situation, despite all the media discussion. And we believe, with our very focused retail (33:53)
value setting, we are on track not to expect negative surprises in the months to come.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Unverified ParticipantOperator
The next question is from the line of `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG at Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. Your line is
now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yes. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. Two questions on diesel, and one on something else, fortunately. Dr.
Peter, when you talk about residual values, can you perhaps help us understand what your
sensitivity would be say to a 5% decline, if it was to happen. I understand residual values are so
far stable but let's say they do decrease by 5%, what would that really mean for you? And then
probably Harald to you also, when we think about diesel impact in Germany where this debate is
probably the most prominent, you're guiding for a small decrease in CO2 emissions this `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for, you
gave us interestingly the numbers for the diesel penetration this morning in the media call, you
have to build-to-order in Germany. Do you see any impact on the take rates and penetration
levels of diesel vehicles in Germany specifically? Those would be the first two questions.
And then, just really on something else, when we think about your volume price mix bridge in the
EBIT line, which you don't disclose on a quarterly basis, are you happy to share a few details on
how that developed in the quarter? `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. So we start with diesel and then the question to something else. Harald,
please start.
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
One question was on the diesel side, what does it mean in terms of impact for the decrease of
CO2 in 2017, which we clearly stated in our quarter and half `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for report that we're seeing a
decrease in 2007 (sic) [2017] in our CO2 emissions, and that is still valid even if there is a change
on maybe small change on diesel take-up. Changes to take rates, order intake, the figures I
mentioned this morning was that we saw in 2016 for the German market an `average, as reported by the Germany's Federal Environmental Agency in April 2017. This is also of the diesel
mix of 65%, and we currently have in the first half of 2017 61%. So, on the worldwide global basis
it's only a decrease of 1%, so pretty stable.
A - Unverified Participant
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Well, I – Tim as you probably expect I will not make any sensitivity of an 5% decline. However,
what I would like to state that we have a very proactive way of setting, which is values, and even
more that we cause (36:37) cautious approach at how it's – are we setting. Harald stated this
morning and that the – that diesel market is just slightly down in terms of penetration in Europe.
And I'm repeating myself, we do at this point in time not see any major negative impact on diesel
retail values in Europe.
Coming to your third question regarding the EBIT bridge, of course, we have a slight positive
impact from volume and mix, as you can imagine from looking at our sales numbers. On the
negative side, we have increased expenses as in a result of provisions related to legal, to some
legal ways, and I would like to state that those risks are in no connection with the media coverageQ - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. Nicolas and Tim. Next question, please?
Operator
We are now the line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI at Evercore ISI. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. and good afternoon. It's `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI here. And Krüger, can you help
me to understand why the press and certainly the stock market might be right to believe that the
end of diesel is this is also triggering the end of BMW or more broadly the German auto industry,
as we see stock prices falling every day, and following the German press. Firstly, is customer
switch from a diesel to a gasoline vehicle, it's more likely a good thing for your profitability, as I
assume you have the same ways and better margin from petrol and the same ways and better
margin from petrol engine than on diesel, and do you have the flexibility as you always state in
your Graz (38:41) engine plant?
And secondly, if you have to sell more mile hybrids to replace diesels and still meet your CO2
targets, that's not necessarily a bad thing either as 48 volt gasoline hybrids already today have a
cost advantage over diesel?
And thirdly, if you're forced, as probably Harald was suggesting earlier on, you have to write
down some of your capitalized development cost or your operating leased assets so let it be,
just get it done, these are non-cash items, and it won't kill you either. So, I just don't really
understand why there's this notion that everyone is talking about that the end of diesel is the end
of the German auto industry, maybe you can share some of your thoughts?
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
Thank you for the questions. I think I could answer, say a couple of yes to you and what you just
mentioned. I mean first of all, if you think about our worldwide diesel mix is 35%, so 65% of our
`business, the substantial investments needed for electrification and autonomous driving. This by today is still petrol engines. And I don't think that we see the end of the diesel
currently. It will be an important engine still for 2020 and 2025 and the Euro 6 diesel is a good
one, definitely. And we will update the Euro 5 for free, for the customers with the software
update. Like hybrids and cost advantage and things like this one, I don't want to go into the
details of margins, but what you have clearly mentioned is also true. We have a high flexibility with
our engine plants between – to mix and to switch between diesel and petrol engines.
And that flexibility, my view is for the future very important. Combined with the flexibility in the car
plants as well, because nobody knows the demand is definitely on battery electric vehicles on
plug-in hybrids and combustion engines. And we took the strategy that we are flexiblizing the
plants that we can build each of this derivatives, engine derivatives in the plant. And I think that's a
good advantage for the future.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
All right. Thank you.A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
Okay.
A - Unverified Participant
Would you like to please continue?
Operator
Okay. We are now over to the next question, which is Charles Winston at Redburn. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Charles Alastair Winston, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Yeah. Hi. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying a few words about. I'm Charles from Redburn. Thanks for taking my two questions as well.
Focusing on electrification, I hear what you say about not really wanting to discuss profitability of
powertrain, but just looking at your German website (41:13) about half an hour ago, if I was to look
at the BMW 530e, it is priced on the – at around about €2,000 less than the BMW 530d in terms
of retail price, base price. BMW X5 40e is priced around about a €1,000 less than the BMW X5
40d. You're pricing at retail your plug-in product less than you're pricing your diesel product, yet
clearly they have relatively expensive batteries in, they've got two powertrains in effectively.
Could you at least give us some guidance as to the profitability of the PHEV product given that
you are pricing it in line with or all less than equivalent diesel power and they solely have to have
a higher cost of production, that's question one.
Question two is just relating to Tesla, I have to mention, and the new Model 3. In theory, and I
stress it's in theory, but if the Model 3 does well, how quickly could BMW react in terms of an
equivalent price, equivalent range product? If we did start seeing the famous 500,000 units of
volume that they're targeting, clearly that would start taking product and demand away from you
and some of your competitors. Would you be able to react and how quickly could you do so?
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Charles. We start with Harald and then Nicolas.
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
Charles, as I mentioned in my speech we will show a surprise in Frankfurt and it's too early to say
a word by today. BMW is quite flexible, as you know, in product development and on the
production side. And on the Tesla Model 3, it's I think too early days to really say how successful
this product is in the market and how the ramp-up will look like.
A - Unverified Participant
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Charles, thanks a lot for the hint. I will pass this to the colleagues from our sales division in
Germany too. Maybe very surprised on the `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for (43:16) high performance. But joking aside, what
you're asking is a very important question and the background of the question is, will BMW with a
growing share of e-mobility of electric powered cars stay in the range of 8% to 10%. Anddefinitely this is our commitment and why am I optimistic that we are going to achieve this target,
because our strategy on one hand side is based on improving the performance side by launching
new models with high margins, just a couple of examples we've discussed the five COEs and
very important model from a world perspective we will launch in a couple of months from now,
the new BMW `X3, which will also be available for the first time as an M Performance model.. Even the run out version of the BMW `X3, which will also be available for the first time as an M Performance model. is performing – performed very well in
the first `six months, a total of 1.22 million BMW Group vehicles were delivered to customers, an increase and a couple of months later the BMW 8 series. So a new top model in our
range.
On the other hand side, we are reducing complexity in our product of which we'll contribute in a
significant way to the increase in profitability. And, of course, we continue to optimize our
company quarter-by-quarter in terms of efficiency and cost. And this is why I'm optimistic that we
will stay in the 8% to 10% range.
Q - `Charles Alastair Winston, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Charles. Next question please.
Operator
Yes, of course. We are now over to the line of Maxville, which is at Bernstein (45:02). Please go
ahead.
Q - Unverified Participant
Yeah. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying a few words about. I'd like to actually follow on from Charles Winston's question about, again,
Tesla Model 3. Mr. Krüger, you said we're going to have to wait and see how successful the ramp-
up is on that product. Absolutely agreed, that's a big issue for Tesla. But in terms of the market
demand, the market demand seems to have been confirmed, if we're willing to believe what
Tesla says about pre-orders. So the question for you, your market research organization, when
you go out and look for customers and interview customers, do you see any indication that there
could be demand on that sort of level for a BMW EV? Thank you.
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
I mean, that's a very good question, Max (45:49), definitely on the one side. I think, we need to
differentiate across the globe, if there's – if I look into the market data we have. The one is, China
is probably different than United States than Europe. In China, you probably have only a chance
for bigger volumes if you have localized the product, and that is probably maybe going to
happen with Tesla Model 3 or not, I don't know, but without localization, I think it will be difficult in
the Chinese market.
In the European market, you definitely normally need a European manufacturing location as well.
In some parts, it could be possible. European customers are on the change, in terms of looking
for more electric vehicles, but you can see it's still a slow market. And the reason why that, the
infrastructure is not everywhere available. So from our experience, Max, the infrastructure goes
hand-in-hand with the market demand, and if the customers are concerned about infrastructure,
and if you look at Europe, it's completely different. There are 27 different countries with different
infrastructure. And in the United States, as you know as good as I do, you need to look at the
different regions. California is definitely very keen on those products. If you go into the Midwest,rely just only on electric vehicle might be difficult, because maybe in the Midwest in the United
States, you will not find as quickly as needed the infrastructure available, so we have different
data across the globe.
Q - Unverified Participant
And then a quick follow-up on that. The flexibility you're talking about, the flexible platform, and
you were saying earlier BMW is a flexible company. With a flexible architecture, can you put a
battery in such a vehicle that's big enough to be competitive, e.g., can a flexible architecture take
an 80 kilowatt hour or 90 kilowatt hour battery? Thanks.
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
Yes. We believe we can, definitely, in terms of having a competitive offer on the market.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thanks very much.
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. Max (47:58). Next question, please.
Operator
We are now over to `Fraser Hill, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. Your line is
(48:05)
Q - `Fraser Hill, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi, good afternoon. This is `Fraser Hill, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. I've got three quick questions, actually. I'll start with EVs and
batteries, just to follow on from the theme. Could you talk a little bit about your technology
choice? I think you've gone with the Samsung prismatic cells, which I believe are possibly slightly
safer, better density, but I think they are much more expensive. So is that a technology choice
that is perhaps holding you back from competing at these price points in the EV market? Is it a
technology choice you're still happy with today, just an update there?
Very quickly on diesel, you gave us those percentage diesel mix numbers for BMW last `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for and
this `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for, what diesel mix do you need to have for 2021, in your mind, to comply with the
European regulation?
And then the third question, could you give us an update on your mobility services offer? I mean,
there's not been much discussion of that at all today. Obviously, you've made some big efforts
with DriveNow, right now in the U.S. Is it proving slower progress in that market, we've obviously
seen some big losses from Uber, and I think car2go has been pulling back from certain U.S. cities.
Just be interested (49:17) to get your thoughts on the market in general, mobility services and
your place in it at the moment? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Fraser. So, we start with your question to mobility services and with Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Fraser, as you know, mobility services play an important role in our Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT.
Our Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT is built on four pillars, the ACES, autonomous, connected,We are in talks with new cities in those states, we have recently started a new approach in the
U.S. in Seattle with ReachNow, and we are well on track to gain `addition, we are offering an optimization of the exhaust-treatment system for 300,000 of theal users for our BMW
connected app, so continues to play an important role in our strategy.
And maybe to – sorry, Fraser – to add very, very important, because we were discussing, and
Harald was referring to the Diesel Summit yesterday in Berlin, and if you look what we have
developed in Hamburg, together with the City, with the Mayor of Hamburg, we've committed to
replace our fleet of DriveNow combustion cars by electrified cars. So we will add 550 electrified
cars into the car sharing scheme in Hamburg, plus-minus 400 fully electrified, 150 plug-in hybrids.
And on the other hand side, the city committed to setup more than 1,000 charging points in the
next `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for. So this is what I would call a really very modern state-of-the-art mobility concept for, in
city locations.
Q - `Fraser Hill, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And you're still convinced about scalable globally, because we are seeing perhaps regional
monopolies or focused developing in the mobility services area in the car, car sharing, ride-hailing
space we're certainly seeing some big losses, and I'd have to say, car2go (51:52) in U.S. cities, so
it's not a model that they can apply to some of those areas. Are you finding that as well? That it's
going to be much slower in certain areas and could you perhaps sort of flesh out your thoughts
on that?
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
Well, I – and you already made – you made the point, it's really a city by city approach. And with
every city, we learn what is working and where do we have to adjust and to improve and in
particular talking about electrification of those car sharing fleets. I think it's important to mention
that on the one hand side the OEM has a new (52:36) responsibility and we add electrified cars,
but we need also the commitment from administration in order to setup the infrastructure related
to those car sharing schemes with electrified cars.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
And building on this one, Fraser, just – and that's why we have a cooperation with other
companies on building a high voltage infrastructure network for Europe, for example, to improve
the electrification and helping the consumer to buy an electric car for.
Coming to your question for the 2021, which is difficult to answer by today, the key points are the
following: first of all, the petrol engines are also getting more efficient, we are also investing into
the petrol side. So the petrol side is – engines for 2021 are more efficient than the ones by today,
so that will help in achieving the 2021 CO2 targets as well.
The second one is, we definitely will increase the portion of electrified vehicles and then we will
have a significant number in Europe of diesel engine as well, but if you look at the Euro 6 diesel
engines, I hope the agreement on the Berlin Summit from yesterday, that there will be more trust
from the customer side into the diesel engine technology.
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
Okay. And then one more, finally, which I forgot to answer is definitely concerning the battery cells
and the batteries and the technology choice. BMW currently obtains battery cells from leading cell
manufacturers in Asia. As you rightly mentioned, they are also having factories in Europe, one orthe other one, so there is a good competitive market so far. But on the other side, we do a lot of
research work on battery cells to have the knowledge about the technology and the costs.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Harald. I think we have time for one more question please.
Operator
And in that case, the final question for today is of the line of José Asumendi at JPMorgan. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Thanks very much. Couple of items, José, JPMorgan. Harald, can you speak a little bit about how
many gigawatt hour capacity are you putting in China, the last time (54:56) this `year, the first engineers from the BMW Group, Intel, and Mobileye will move into ourdevelopment campus outside of Munich. We want to offer all our customers the right options for. My
understanding is, are you are starting to invest over there and how that's – how is this going to
help you meet the credits target in China that you need to meet over the coming 18 months or
so?
And then second for Nicolas is, can you talk a bit also about China, their current penetration of
leasing and financing? And then do you have any capital restrictions currently that basically limit
the potential of growth across leasing and financing and how do you see this evolving over the
coming 12 months? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. José, we start with Nicolas and then Harald.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
José, your first question was related to leasing, leasing penetration, finance penetration in China.
We have hardly any operational lease in China. So most of the `business, the substantial investments needed for electrification and autonomous driving. This is financial leases without
residual value risks and we have penetration of retail financing of slightly above 45% in China but
without any residual value risks.
Second topic, any restriction on capital transfers or limitation in our developing our Financial
Services `business, the substantial investments needed for electrification and autonomous driving. This. No, not at this point in time. We are operating with two companies in China to
develop our retail financing `business, the substantial investments needed for electrification and autonomous driving. This, one is Financial Services and the other one is a company
called Herald Leasing and we are definitely in a position to support our strong, I have to say
strong `business, the substantial investments needed for electrification and autonomous driving. This development in China. We expect a low-double digit growth in China in 2017.
A - `Harald Krüger, please go ahead.
And José, the other part of your question was the gigawatt capacity in China and EV targets. I
would like to answer that with three points. The first one is, as you know, there is a proposal on
the table which requires 8% in 2018 and 10% in 2019 and 12% in 2020, our so-called credit points
for zero-emission vehicles. The law is expected to be finalized in autumn 2017. So, it's not fixed
but currently on the table, but which means that you need to have local vehicles.
The second one is on – the China law also requires that you have battery and fuel cell production
batteries from China for local NEV, new energy vehicles. So we have suppliers in China who do
so, and we have also a high voltage battery center at our plant in Tiexi, in the province in Liaoning.
So here we have the knowledge in our joint venture. And if you look at the current productportfolio which we have, there is definitely, for example, the BMW X1 extended, we have plug-in
hybrid coming and delivered to the Chinese market from our joint venture. We have the BMW 7
Series plug-in hybrid as an imported car on the market. We have the BMW i3 and the BMW i8, and
the BMW X5 plug-in hybrids. So, and as you know there is local plug-in hybrids coming more. And
so that's how we will meet the Chinese legislation in the future.
Q - `José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. José. `Ladies and gentlemen, global economic and political conditions remain highly volatile and, I think we are on time. Thank you for
joining us today. All the best and bye-bye.