Q2 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the SAP Q2 Earnings Conference Call. For your
information, this conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference
over to `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the second quarter 2017. I'm joined by our CEO,
Bill McDermott; and `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO, will both make opening remarks on the call today. Also
joining us for Q&A are board members, Rob Enslin who runs Cloud Business Group, and Bernd
Leukert who leads Products & Innovation.
Before we get started, as usual, I want to say a few words about forward-looking statements and
our use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that are not
historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.
Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict,
should, outlook, and will, and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements.
SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from expectations.The factors that could affect SAP's future financial results are discussed more fully in our filings
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F
for 2016 filed with the SEC on February 28, 2017.
Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements which speak only as of their dates.
On our Investor Relations website, you can find our quarterly statement, the half-year report and
the financial summary slide deck which are intended to supplement our prepared remarks today
and include a reconciliation for our non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers.
Unless otherwise noted, all financial numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS,
and growth rates are non-IFRS as reported. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide should
not be considered a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance
prepared in accordance with IFRS.
With that, I'd like to turn things over to our CEO, Bill McDermott.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Stefan. Hello, everyone. Our strong Q2 is the latest in SAPs eight-year run
of profitable growth. We're ever consistent in our strategy to be the most innovative cloud
company powered by SAP HANA. This strategy is validated by fast adoption of S/4HANA and our
full portfolio of cloud solutions.
Allow me to share some highlights on Q2. We continue to lead the business software industry
with a consistent trifecta of strong software sales, fast growth in the cloud, and operating income
expansion. Our total revenue grew double digits in the quarter. And please note, this is all organic
as we had no material acquisition in the last 12 months. In fact, we haven't had a material
acquisition in more than two years. We're not aware of any other mega-cap software company
that's growing as fast as SAP.
We expanded in every region of the world with businesses of all sizes. Operating profit was up
4% on top of exceptional profits in the prior year. Our IFRS operating profit reflects the continued
success of SAP's share price. Every €1 in share price growth translates to €20 million in impact on
our operating income. It's kind of a happy investment though to have inspired people, especially
in a global economy with such a war for talent.
Based on our sustained strong growth and cash generation, we are pleased to share SAP's
success with our shareholders by initiating a share buyback. We have confidently raised our
guidance for the full year as well.
Let me give you some color on our strategic growth drivers. Driven by S/4HANA, licenses sales
grew 5%, beating a record Q2 2016 and exceeding every expectation.
S/4HANA adoption grew to more than 6,300 customers, up over 70% year-over-year. Global
companies like Duke Energy, Carrefour Belgium, and Mercadona selected S/4HANA in Q2.
Google and its parent company, Alphabet, have chosen to work with SAP to drive operational
excellence in treasury and IT management by implementing these functions on SAP S/4HANA
running on Google Cloud.
Google expects improved efficiency in finance operations, and greater transparency through real-
time insights. We also announced at SAPPHIRE that we have expanded our co-innovationpartnership with Google Cloud to deliver integrated cloud solutions for our customers. Many
other leading companies also went live on S/4 in Q2, including NG and Bloomberg.
S/4HANA is the number one and fastest-growing cloud ERP solution in the market, hard stop.
We're growing new cloud bookings triple digits, and we see an enormous pipeline going forward.
Customers are going live with S/4 Cloud in as little as six weeks. Deloitte selected S/4 Cloud in
Q2, among many other signature companies. Centrica, a multi-national utility company is using
S/4 Cloud as the digital core, along with an IoT solution, running on SAP Leonardo. This is SAP
integration at its finest.
Overall, new cloud bookings grew 33%, while cloud revenue was up 29% in Q2 and 31% in the
first half. Led by SAP Digital Boardroom, our reinvigorated analytics portfolio posted triple-digit
new cloud bookings growth in Q2.
SAP Hybris, our customer engagement solutions, again achieved strong double-digit new cloud
bookings growth as well as double-digit growth in software revenue sales. KAESER
KOMPRESSOREN, PriceRite stores and the NHL all chose SAP Hybris in Q2.
SAP's SuccessFactors, we saw another big quarter with new customer additions. SuccessFactors
Employee Central now has over 1,800 customers worldwide, and that was up 48% year-on-year.
Analysts recently gave SAP the highest rankings in Cloud HCM for Core HR for any global
organization that has more than 5,000 workers. There is a lot of them.
Vitra AG selected SuccessFactors WorkForce management solutions in Q2. E. & J. Gallo Winery is
among many choosing SAP Fieldglass flexible labor solutions to address the total workforce. SAP
Ariba now has over 2.8 million companies in 180 countries, trading nearly $1 trillion in goods and
services annually on the Ariba Network. IBM, Hongkong Electric, and Swiss Post all chose Ariba this
quarter. Saudi Aramco also selected SAP Ariba, and will connect thousands of suppliers in Saudi
Arabia.
Concur helps more than 49 million end users effortlessly process travel and expenses. Big brands
like Embraer chose Concur last quarter.
Let me be intensely clear, the Internet of Everything requires hyperconnectivity on a global basis.
SAP's Business Networks lead the industry, connecting not only our customers but also our
competitors' customers. It is the world's network.
The results make it perfectly clear, SAP is gaining share against our competition. Cloud and
software powered to 9% growth in the quarter, significantly outpacing our main competitor even
as acquisitions benefit their results.
We believe SAP is the only company in the business software industry at scale to deliver both fast
growth in the cloud and core license growth. This is because SAP takes a much more customer-
centric approach to the transition in the cloud, protecting legacy investments while offering the
most complete vision for the cloud. The breadth and depth of SAP's end-to-end portfolio is the
clear differentiator.
SAP's innovation agenda ensures a clear path to future growth. With our API Hub and openSAP
Cloud Platform, our ecosystem is actively incubating new innovations. We're excited that new
partnerships will proliferate the SAP platform across the hyperscale public cloud providers.
At the epicenter of the digital revolution is SAP Leonardo. Why? Because Leonardo integratesCustomer interest in SAP Leonardo is really high. As you know, there was well over 20,000
SAPPHIRE attendees this year from 4,600 companies. And they all experienced, in some form,
the potential of Leonardo. Nearly 1,000 customers in 48 countries attended our local SAP
Leonardo event in Frankfurt earlier this month.
We're focused on scaling breakthrough innovation, going beyond the proliferation of prototypes
in the enterprise. That's why leading companies such as Google, Deloitte, Aldo and Centrica are
all collaborating with SAP to build new capabilities, re-imagine business models, and accelerate
digital transformation with SAP Leonardo.
SBB AG and Roche adopted SAP Leonardo IoT solutions in the second quarter. ZIM, a leader in
global container shipping, is embracing SAP Leonardo to re-imagine their business and create the
Airbnb for the container space. The autonomous province of Bolzano, Italy is partnering with SAP
to develop personal ID document authentication with SAP blockchain solutions.
All of this is being delivered to our customers through the design thinking and innovation
approach that SAP has scaled globally. Our successful strategy and execution has cultivated a
business model that has never been stronger. Our more predictable support and cloud
subscription revenue is on target to reach 70% to 75% of total revenue by 2020.
Our sustained growth and cash generation provides strategic flexibility for capital allocation to
deliver shareholder value. One example is the share buyback we just announced. Another
example is our consistent and attractive dividend payout. It's clear that SAP remains a strong,
reliable investment in an uncertain world economy.
In conclusion, everything about SAP's business is best-in-class. It's integrated and focused, and
it's delivering on the shareholder value promise. We're building great products, telling a great
story, delivering a great service, and most importantly, building a great team.
We also are just getting started with more than 80% of our ERP customer base still in the
S/4HANA pipeline, the upside is amazing.
Our company has never been stronger, more engaged and more inclusive. In fact, we have
reached our goal of having more than 25% women in management positions across SAP. It's an
important milestone, but we will not stop. We are pushing on to attract and promote the best
talent in the IT industry. Today, we announced a new goal of achieving at least 30% women in
management by 2022, a goal that I expect us to surpass handily.
With the strong start to 2017, the momentum is with SAP. Therefore, we are confidently raising
our guidance for the full year. With our first-half hiring complete, we will recognize the productivity
of that hiring throughout the second half of this year, and we will benefit from nice, stable, well-
trained employee base. That's leverage.
Overall, we've never been better positioned. But I also remind our company, as I do all of you, we
are never complacent. We understand that the customer is our true north and always will be. So,
therefore, I'd like to acknowledge, recognize and thank the 87,000 women and men of SAP
worldwide for their immense dedication to our customers and our shareholders.
For SAP, the best is yet to come, a sustainable growth company through the ages. Now, I'll turn
the call over to our CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer. Luka, over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `Thanks a lot, Bill. Bill already shared some of our results on yet another excellent quarter in our
core and cloud business as our profitable growth story continues. In fact, our cloud and software
revenue growth rate in the first half of the year was at the upper end of our full-year guidance
range with 8% at constant currency.
Fueled by our overall strong business performance, we continuously strive for a more predictable
business, now at 66% for the first half of the year. In addition, our total revenue grew by double
digits. So, to now get a better understanding of the key factors that made up for this exceptional
growth, let me go into some more detail.
Firstly, our committed future cloud revenue or new cloud bookings has grown by 33%, and our
cloud revenue growth came in at 29%, marking the 17th consecutive quarter of consistent rapid
growth in the cloud. Our strong and complete cloud offering is the source of this dynamic growth.
We have the power to scale each of our cloud components. And the nice thing about this is that
all of these are seamlessly linked to our digital core, providing a real end-to-end offering to our
customers. And they highly value this offering as reflected in our great results.
Secondly, I would like to call out two highlights from our outstanding software performance. One
is obviously the continuous momentum of our industry-leading business suite, S/4HANA. Whether
we look at our suite, HANA as a database or our industry in line of business solutions, all of these
are big growth drivers.
The other highlight is customer engagement and commerce, which again showed double-digit
growth essentially driven by our success with SAP Hybris combined with SAP S/4HANA. All of this
led to continued software growth. And on top of a strong previous year quarter, software
increased 5% and support revenue continues to be strong likewise, also growing by 5%.
So, to summarize, our core continues to be rock solid.
Another indicator for our outstanding performance in our cloud and software business is the
strong year-over-year growth in new cloud and software license order entry, which was up 20%.
This KPI represents the order entry from our software license business plus the total contract
value from our cloud business. This exceptional growth is a strong achievement, especially
considering SAP's large scale underpinning our success in the market with our unique portfolio.
Our fast-growing cloud business, in fact, now already makes up almost 50% of our total order
entry.
So, let me come to the second quarter regional results now, starting with EMEA where we had a
strong performance with cloud and software revenue increasing 9%. Cloud subscriptions and
support revenue grew 48% with an especially strong quarter in Germany and Russia. We also had
double-digit software revenue growth in Germany and the Middle East, and triple-digit software
revenue growth in Russia.
We have solid growth in the Americas region with cloud and software revenue growing by 8%,
and cloud subscriptions and support revenue increasing by around 20%. In North America,
Canada had double-digit growth in software revenue. In Latin America, Mexico and Chile were
highlights with double-digit software revenue growth.
In the APJ region, we had truly an exceptional performance in both cloud and software revenue
as well as cloud subscriptions and support revenue. Cloud and software revenue was up 13%,
with cloud subscriptions and support revenue growing by 52%. China was very strong in cloudsubscriptions and support revenue, while Japan and Australia both had strong double-digit
growth in software revenue.
Now, let me come to the bottom line, let me first be very clear. From a profitability standpoint, we
have been, all the way through the year, very clear on what our priorities are for this year and how
this will impact the overall gross margin. We continue with conscious investment decisions in 2017
and we will still see mix shift effects.
I would like to provide more details about the most important effects this quarter. First, our cloud
gross margin decreased by 2.4 percentage points to 62.4% and was the primary reason for the
overall gross margin decline. Remember, the majority of our investments are in our public cloud
business. Our decision to invest in a new data center in the Middle East is yet another perfect
example of how we are getting ready for future growth. But this, of course, put additional
pressure on the public cloud margin, which was 57.6% in Q2, if you back out our highly profitable
Business Networks business.
As we strive for running each and every business more effectively and efficiently, we continue to
see improvement in the margin of our private cloud infrastructure as a service business, as well
as in our Business Networks.
Since, however, public cloud and private cloud are continuously increasing their share within cloud
revenue, this revenue mix shift effect negatively impacted the cloud margin by approximately 2
percentage points. In addition, cloud revenue has a higher share of our total business which finally
weighs on our overall gross margin.
Consequently, our cloud and software gross margin was 81.8%, a decrease of 1.8 percentage
points year-over-year, the revenue mix shift effect between our cloud and on-premise business
negatively impacted this margin by 70 basis points. All these gross margin effects continued to
weigh on our overall operating margin for this year. But finally, let me reiterate that our dedicated
cloud investments in this year has set us up for margin expansion for 2018 and beyond.
Elsewhere, our services gross margin continued it's very nice upward trend as expected, and was
23.5% for the quarter which is a 5.6 percentage point year-over-year increase. This was driven by
the completion of previous investment projects and a strong top line increase.
Our operating profit continues to expand. With mid-single digit growth this quarter, we were
pleased with the solid performance. Our continued bottom line success here comes even as we
invest heavily in our cloud operations in certain areas as well as geographies and as we have
higher personnel expenses from adding over 7,000 FTEs or a 9% increase compared to the prior
year period. We continue to have success in hiring highly educated young talents in our fast
growth areas and locations. But as Bill has outlined before, that hiring has run its course for 2017
now and we will take full effect of the resulting leverage that we'll get in the second half year.
Let me now talk about our IFRS operating profit. As explained last quarter, we started the
restructuring program in our services organization. In addition, due to the strong increase of our
share price, the share-based compensation increased as well.
Both factors are the reason for the marked decline of our IFRS operating profit in the second
quarter. The same factors impacted IFRS earnings per share, which decreased by 18%, whereas
non-IFRS earnings per share increased nicely by 14%, driven primarily by a favorable development
of our effective tax rate. The IFRS tax rate in the second quarter was 26.6%, which was a
decrease of 2.3 percentage points year-over-year. The non-IFRS tax rate in the second quarter
was 27.8%, down from 29.6% in the prior year period.Now, finally to two very positive developments. Let me first start with cash flow and liquidity. Bill
have said this already, based on our very strong growth and cash generation, we are pleased to
share SAP's success with our shareholders by initiating a share buyback of up to €0.5 billion in the
second half. This is on top of our dividend payment of €1.5 billion this year, which already
represented a strong payout ratio of 41%, in line with our attractive dividend policy.
Operating cash flow was €3.5 billion, an increase of 20% year-over-year. Free cash flow increased
15% year-over-year to €2.9 billion. At quarter-end, net debt was €1.8 billion, an improvement of
€2.5 billion year-over-year.
Second, as a result of our strong overall position and pipeline, we are raising our outlook for the
full year. We have also updated our currency expectations for the impact on reported growth
rates in 2017. For more details, please refer to our quarterly statement published earlier today.
So, what should you all take away from this call? Put it in short terms, SAP is the best-positioned
company to shape the digital enterprise. Our cloud growth is fueled by the breadth and
completeness of our cloud offerings. All our products are linked to our S/4HANA digital core,
providing a real end-to-end offering to our customers.
Before closing, I would like to talk about our non-financial indicators where we have seen a very
strong performance as well. Bill already mentioned achieving our goal of increasing the number
of women in management and, obviously, our efforts to promote diversity and equality continue.
In line with our goal to become carbon-neutral by 2025, we reduced our second quarter CO2
emissions by over 40% compared to the prior year.
And finally but very importantly, our employees continue to embrace our strategy and higher
purpose. Our already high employee retention rate rose again to 94.3%. That's less than 6%
fluctuation rate, a definitely leading factor in our industry.
So, to summarize, we delivered a strong Q2 and first half, showing strong growth and great
execution. Our continuous expansion of our profit and our strong cash flow generation help us
drive both customer value and shareholder value. We are extremely well positioned for success
through 2020 and far beyond.
Thank you, and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Operator, we can now start the Q&A session, please.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, sir. We will now take the first question from `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC from Evercore ISI. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Yes. Thanks very much and congratulations on the strong start to the first half of the year. Bill, I
was curious, you guys obviously have a very broad view of the world. And when you look at your
pipeline, do you think the pace of technology disintermediation we're seeing in industries like
retail is accelerating enterprise decisions around digital transformation projects? And I'm just
wondering if the scope of those projects is getting bigger. I realize it's a little bit of a high levelquestion, but it just seems to me that bigger companies are having to make bigger decisions
around digital transformation and you all would seem to be pretty well positioned on that front?
Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Kirk, thank you very much for the nice compliment and also for the question. It's a really
important question. Every single company we do business with is in the midst of a digital
transformation. Every single business needs to get control of their data. They want to have a
single view of their consumer and, obviously, they need not only to know what's going on in the
transactional world, but they also have to know what's going on in the social world.
In retail in particular, this is really big because it's a fight for survival. The digital competition knows
no boundaries. So, the digital world can move across geographies very quickly. So, the core
companies in retail now are, yes, redesigning their processes, rethinking their data models, and
they are partnering with companies like SAP to help them compete and, in some cases, even
survive.
So, one of the interesting conversations I had yesterday was with Gartner, one of my favorite
analysts that I worked with when I was President of Gartner, and we talked about the concept of
having your head in the business of digital transformation, but even more your heart. And by
having your heart in the game, you have to make change really quick, and you have to over-invest
in the cloud, and over-invest in, again, this digital consumer. Because if you don't, and you hold
onto the legacy business model, you may not be around too long.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Let's take the next question please.
Operator
We will now take the next question from `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks very much for taking my questions. I've got one question on the cloud, and then
just a clarification. If I look at the cloud revenue growth sequentially, it looks like it slowed down
marginally in the second quarter. I guess it's quite a small change in momentum, but it does come
at a time of management change. So, I guess the questions are, firstly, are you confident that you
can sustain the 30% growth rate as that business scales?
Secondly, are you confident that with the departure of Steve Singh, the management position of
the cloud is still robust? And thirdly, can you just give us some metrics around the bookings
duration? Obviously, the year-on-year growth is strong, but can you talk about duration?
And just as a clarification on a separate issue, Luka, you talked about confidence in margin
expansion for 2018. Can you just clarify whether you're talking about cloud gross margins
specifically there, or is that a group-wide comment? Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you so much for the question, Charles. I start it off and then hand it over to Luka. So, first
and foremost on the cloud, the bookings and the revenue, don't even spend a moment on it.
Basically, when you book the software, obviously, you're booking the contract and that will go intorevenue to be recognized. The revenue that's actually recognized has something to do with
timing and timing in the quarter for sales and so on. And some of these sales happen to have
been a little bit more back-ended than usual. The pipeline for the cloud is fantastic. The 30-plus-
percent cloud growth and the pipeline to support that is ever intact. The business looks really,
really strong.
Now, as it relates to change in the quarter, obviously, we appointed two new executive board
members to run our Global Customer Operation. I can tell you that they have settled into the job
amazingly well. As you know, they're well regarded leaders, have been with us for a long time,
and they're doing fantastic.
Rob Enslin, who ran our Global Customer Operation was the executive that backfilled Steve
Singh. And as you know, Rob has spent his career with SAP. So, the stability, the consistency is
really perfect. And just to show you the class of SAP, I, next week, along with the executive board,
will be flying out to Seattle to have a going away party for our great friend, Steve Singh. So this
hotel, when you check in to SAP, you don't check out, like we're friends for life, and that's the kind
of company we are.
Now, as it relates to the bookings and some of the technicalities, Luka will handle it.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Okay, here is the technical guy. First of all, on the bookings duration, what we have in our
new cloud bookings is the figure for our so-called average annualized contract value in the cloud.
So, our actual growth in what we call total contract value has actually been substantially bigger
than that.
Why is that? Because also our average duration of contracts has been going up. We are now at
3.6 years average contract duration. And so, on the TCV basis, our growth is actually surpassing
the 33% that you see on the new cloud bookings. So, that should give you also a lot of
confidence that our cloud business, not only for the short-term but also for the years to come, is
extremely healthy.
And in terms of the margin expansion, I meant that in both dimensions. So, what you should
expect, I think, for the years 2018 and going forward is, of course, continued progression on our
HANA Enterprise Cloud infrastructure as a service gross margins. You should expect that the
Business Networks area will continue its very steady march towards the 80% gross margin target
that we have set for this business for 2020 and where they are anyway already in striking
distance of that.
And then in our software as a service and PaaS business, outside of the Business Networks
group, there should be a very pronounced rebound of the margins as our investments into
Converged Cloud infrastructures, into re-platforming our flagship solution SuccessFactors on our
HANA technology, and our data center consolidation are going to be largely finished by the end
of this year. So, here, you should see absolutely a strong increase. And that will also, in our
projection, flow through to the operating margin level. So, it's really on both levels.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `Operator
We will now take the next question from `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Phil, we can't hear you.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Okay. Can you hear me now?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Now we can hear you, perfect. Go ahead, please.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Okay. Great. I was just saying congratulations on another great quarter. Bill and Luka, both of you
touched on the fact that the cloud business is growing. And Luka, you said your rock solid core,
but I'd actually say that that core is still growing considering the fact that license was up 8% year-
over-year through the first half year.
A question for Bill and maybe, Luka, if you could touch on this too. I mean, obviously, we've seen
the S/4HANA customer count number go up, you have 70% this year and I'm assuming that's a
big part of what's driving that license growth. How do you think – where are we I guess, what
inning are we in with S/4HANA? Because the customer count might be high but our checks still say
that penetration still has a way to go even with – inside those. So, how do you think about where
we are in this cycle and I guess the sustainability of some of these six consecutive quarters of
growth on license?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Phil, first of all for your kind remarks. We are in the really early days of the
S/4HANA momentum. First of all, if you apply the 80-20 logic, you'd be a lot close to the 15% or
20% than you would be to 80% in terms of the penetration in all the opportunities that are out
there and that's the traditional base we're talking about. We're making a bold move into
customers that haven't seen SAP and may not even be thinking of SAP in the mid market and the
upper mid market. So, as we assert our will in different marketplaces and different industries, I will
call this the earliest possible days of S/4HANA in terms of the rotation and the real catalyst for
continued growth in the company.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's hard to add anything to that. I think adoption always in our industry is kind of an S-shape
and we are clearly basically still in the early adopter phase as pointed out. Some of the early
adopters have a long way to go to really roll it out across their entire end states. And now we see
the first emergences of PaaS followers kicking in. So, we have lots of room to grow.
And more importantly, even S/4HANA is invigorating growth in other elements of our portfolio as
well. CEC was very strong, I highlighted this. Analytics was strong in the quarter. That goes along
nicely with the Digital Boardroom concept that S/4HANA really brings to life. So, we will be having
a lot of fun with this baby which is just barely becoming a toddler by now.A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And Phil, one CEO said something interesting to me yesterday. He said Run Simple was actually
ahead of its time and I think he is 100% right because the most attractable challenge of our era is
complexity. And when you think about the idea of a Digital Boardroom, simplifying the
management process for executives around the world and you think about taking cost out and
improving productivity with HANA and S/4HANA and aligning all the management team with the
line of business cloud and the network, you're talking about just a story that doesn't end because
there is so much room for all these companies to radically simplifying growth if they can apply the
right digital technology. So, it's really early days and it's an exciting era for us, Phil.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks, guys. Keep up the great work.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Let's take the next question please.
Operator
We will now take the next question from `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions, two if I may. Just first of all on the kind of the
cost base, we've seen a very good kind of revenue kind of beating again the first half. But pretty
much all of that and perhaps a bit more has been absorbed by OpEx increase. Luka, I hear what
you were saying on 2018 and your confidence on margin leverage. But do we see this from Q1
onwards? Because given the kind of current run rate, it looks that it's more kind of going to be
second-half weighted.
And then secondly, perhaps to kind of build, it's now been a couple of quarters that the NetSuite
deal has been closed. What do you see from a competitive perspective from that kind of
combination and perhaps also gives us an update on Workday? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Let me cover the first part of the question. Actually, you should start to see it already
starting from the second half year, to be quite honest, because we have made our main
investments in the first half year. You have seen that we have added about 3,000 incremental
head count and that, of course, came on top of already a very strong second half year of 2016.
So, we now have a situation in which we believe that we have, for the moment, everything that
we need to drive and scale this business and that should help us in the second half year. Also, the
comparison from an operating income perspective is relatively easier in the second half than in
the first half, where we still benefited last year from the rundown of our restructuring program
that we had in 2015. So, I'm very confident in both our projections for the full year, as well as then,
of course, also going into 2018.But you're right, that effect should fortify itself the more we move into later parts of 2018, but
then even more so as we move into 2019 and 2020, where we are still in line with our midterm
projection going to 2020, as you know, are projecting for a much higher CAGR on operating
income expansion.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And Gerardus, I'll offer you an answer to your question on NetSuite. Oracle's strategy seems to
be to stay relatively large enterprise with Fusion. But to have a two-tier strategy with ERP and take
NetSuite down market, and that's understandable, the platform's been around for 20 years. So, it
will probably do better in the lower markets. We see them. We compete with them. S/4HANA is
just going to be a runaway story in that place, upper midmarket, even lower midmarket.
Workday, obviously Workday can hold their own, especially if you're in the United States and
you're dealing directly with the human capital management executive. It gets a little bit more
interesting for us when it's a more comprehensive decisions for companies than just the HR
Director. For example, they don't really have a platform. So, the SAP Cloud platform and the
extensibility of that. If you think about S/4HANA and the nucleus of the 21st Century Enterprise
and all line of business executives evolving their use of their individual line of business with the
center of gravity, the data and the process of the company, that's game, set, match for SAP. And
when you talk total workforce management, we're the only one with the network around
contingent labor, and therefore, a total workforce management. And that's why Gartner and
others say, if you have more than 5,000 employees, it's all about SAP. Because what you see with
Workday against SAP is a good fight with the LoB HR Director in the United States. But when you
get beyond the United States and you start to get into more complex industries and companies,
we do extremely well. And I can only tell you that based upon the way they've been purporting
themselves in the market with letters, with fake news to customers and things like that, we'll bring
in our A game.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
That's very clear.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you and congrats on the great revenue quarter.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from John King from Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Yeah. Great. Thanks very much for taking the questions. I've got three if that's all right. The first
one was just a clarification or follow-up on Charlie's question around the cloud. Can you say
something about what we should be thinking about in terms of the guidance for second half, I
guess, implies at the low end at least something similar in terms of cloud revenue growth rate or
at the high end would imply a pretty material acceleration in that same metric?
So, maybe just any commentary, perhaps from Luka, around how likely is that you can get to that
high end or should we be more thinking about the low end at this stage. And then, two probably
related questions, maybe for Bill.
Firstly, on the 2020 guidance. Obviously, you're trying to do the best you can against all of the
metrics that you're guiding there. But I wonder if you could just give us a sense about your
priorities there. Put it another way, if you're in the scenario there where the margins were running
ahead of your plan, would you be looking to reinvest those to – let's say, invest in the sales force
to drive even more growth, or are you equally happy to, let's say, outperform on margin versus
growth? Just trying to understand how you're balancing those two things.
And then, the third one was like another clarification on the M&A. If you look at the – I think at the
outlook statement, you've said, I think, in the full report that that's the only assumption of no
large M&A this and next year. Can you just clarify, is that a statement to say that you don't think a
large deal next year is likely? Or simply that if there were to be one, you will revisit the guidance?
Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
I'll start off. First of all, thank you very much for the question. On the 2020 guidance, we're a big
company. And it's good for big companies to think like a startup. There's no reason why we will
not drive both the top line especially the cloud growth and the margin. What you have to do on
the front end of leadership is make the investments, make the bold moves, so you have the
platform to leverage on a go-forward basis. You should think of us a company that intends to get
the revenue and the margin, and flow it through on the operating income side. It's not an
either/or. It's a both/and. That's how we're running the company.
And I think you can start to see evidence to that, especially in Q3 and Q4, as we have reinforced
today quite consistently we made our investments early this year, so we could reap the benefits
in the back end of the year for our shareholders, but also for our 87,000 women and men that
work for the company.
The second thing on the M&A side, and look, we haven't a big deal in a while because we have
what we need, and there aren't really big deals out there with companies that we think would be
worth the price or would add that much value to our customers' story. So, at this stage, we're
watching it. We're always keeping an eye on things. But our strategy is very consistent with what
you've heard in the past. But if something were to change naturally, you'll all be the first to know.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And in that sense, this is, of course, a statement that our outlook is based on organic
developments and maybe small tuck-in acquisitions. And if we had something more significant
which is not in sight then, of course, the outlook would be subject to change and upgrade as well.
So, let me cover the last question on the cloud guidance. Look, we try to be honest and sincere
people. You have seen that we have updated our top line in cloud and software guidance for the
full year because the lower end just did not make sense anymore. And we have also upgradedthe upper end of those guidances because it's a real possibility that we might even do better
than the previous high end of it.
And that's how you need to look also at the cloud guidance. We are also equally serious about
this, so it's still a possibility that we end up anywhere in this spectrum. And of course, the key
factors that help us to climb up is the very good bookings performance. And now, everyone's
focus must be across the organization to make sure that we onboard our customers as quickly as
possible. And the good thing that you will have noticed is the very decent performance of our
services business, in particular also in the cloud. So, you can see that there is a lot of activities
going on currently to implement for our customers and onboard them.
The more successful we are in that, the better it will be for our cloud performance. Bill alluded to
the fact that we were a little bit back-end loaded in the cloud actually in the last two quarters. And
so, we are working on making up for this now through speedy implementations, and where we
will ultimately end up will be largely determined by this fact because bookings that we now drive
in the second half year will not really have a material impact on revenue for 2017 anymore.
That's the story. So, everything is still possible but very firm in upholding the guidance range that
we had done at the beginning of the year.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Michael Briest from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Another question on cloud margins, I'm afraid. Just in terms of the
SaaS/PaaS business, Luka, 58% gross margin in Q2. I think, at the start of the year, you were
talking about the overall cloud business being roughly stable margins. Do you still think you can
get to the stable margin for the year? And have we now seen the worst or the trough, if you like,
in cloud profitability?
And then, one for Rob or Bill, the Americas cloud growth of 16% in the quarter was a bit of a
deceleration from other periods, and obviously Europe and Asia were very strong. But can you
talk about that, whether it's competitive or something to do with Steve Singh leaving, et cetera?
And then, just finally, can we get an update on the number of live S4 customers? Thanks.
A - `Robert Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations `
Okay. So, on the cloud margins, look, I mean, we have two pieces of our cloud business, the
HANA Enterprise Cloud and the Business Network which are marching towards their targets, and
they are exactly in line with our expectations.
In SaaS/PaaS, you're right that the cloud margin has come down quite a bit. And I have to admit,
slightly above my expectations. To be honest, we are working intensely on finalizing theinfrastructure conversions investments and the re-platforming. And we want to make sure that we
will be done in time, so that the results in 2018 are not affected by this anymore.
That's why we are doubling down on the investments right now. And therefore, for this year, I still
expect that the SaaS/PaaS margins will be under pressure. But therefore, I equally expect that as
of next year, the progression should be much more pronounced than what we are seeing right
now. Because if it was not for that SaaS/PaaS drop due to the one-time investment, we would see
already now a progression in the margin in all the three businesses. That's, for me, the most
important piece. Not so much the mix shift effect that we see, but we need to progress in all
three business models. And for sure, we will see that progress also in SaaS/PaaS in 2018.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And Michael, in terms of the cloud growth in the America continent. So, a little bit on that. You're
over 20% through the first half, and you did have some timing effect on large transformational
cloud deals that moved to the right. So, I think what you're going to see in Q3 and Q4 is
substantially accelerated growth. There is no issue with the business in the cloud in the United
States, as an example. So, stay tuned for even more growth in that region in Q3 and Q4. We have
very good visibility. It's in really good shape. And as I said, when you have S/4HANA, a lot of times
you're talking about larger transformations within these enterprises, and they attach those line of
business cloud decisions to those larger decisions. And you see some timing effect of that, in
particular in the U.S.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
I think that we had the question on HANA live customers, maybe Rob you can handle this?
A - `Robert Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations `
Yeah, sure. I think Bernd's on as well. But we have over 850 live customers now to just over 2,500
projects ongoing. So, it continues to be very successful, and as (52:16) customers are also
investing in the cloud products. So, this is really a tremendous success story for SAP. And the
more they go live, the more expansion that we will see.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
We will now take the next question from Mr. `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC from RBC Capital Markets. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks a lot. This was another really strong license revenue quarter. And for the last 2.5 years,
you've grown license revenues in constant currency growth. I just was curious, if we're only 20%
of the way through the S/4 base conversion, what would stop the company continuing to have
positive license revenue growth? And is that the way that we should start to think about that line
item for the foreseeable future? Thanks.A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. This is Bill, Ross. You should think about S/4HANA as a growth story. We shouldn't spend all
of our time on how much of that growth story and what percentage of that will be recognized
one way or the other. I think the way you should think about it is, the 21st Century digital platform
for a successful company because it's the best run SAP, and S/4HANA is central to that.
Do I believe that the theme is there for continued growth on a positive basis even on the upfront
license recognition for S/4HANA? Absolutely. Do I think that the cloud and the full rental model for
S/4HANA in the high end as well as upper midmarket and mid has only scratched the surface? So
far, absolutely. That's why I say it's such an early moment in the evolution of this growth story. You
should just feel really great about it.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
And maybe just a follow-up, if I could. Thank you, Bill. Just on Leonardo, I'm curious, have you set
any internal revenue targets, specifically for Leonardo? Or does that just get rolled up into
component technology in the portfolio? Thanks.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Yeah. May I take this? This is Bernd. Yeah, of course, we have revenue targets. But more
important, we have value targets. And the revenue targets are across the businesses we have
under the Leonardo brands, which is definitely our cloud platform, which is IoT, which is
blockchain, which is analytics. And what I can share with you, that across all these businesses, we
have seen in the first half of 2017 growth, (55:02) and we are very confident that while we talk
today a lot about HANA, we talked a lot about S/4HANA, when we talk again in one or two years,
Leonardo will be equally important to our financial success than what we talk today about with S/4
and HANA. So, this should give you some inspiration of what's possible. Okay. Thank you.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Great, congrats. Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Let's take next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking the question. Also, congratulations from me on the first half, great
performance. Maybe can I just ask first of all a clarification question on the margin side? On the
second half, are you suggesting that margins actually start to rise or are you just suggesting that
the rate of decline moderates before we see the increase in 2018? So, just help us on the
phasing of margins. That will be really helpful.
Then on the cloud side, just to try to head off the final issue on this, could you maybe update us
on renewal rates there? Is there any issue on that in terms of how customers are renewing or
actually are you starting to see any improvements there? And then maybe a final question on
Leonardo, you've obviously highlighted how strong the interest is there. Could you help us out onsales cycles there? How long should we be thinking about as that interest starts to turn into actual
revenues? Thanks very much.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I will defer to Bernd maybe on the sales cycles and, more importantly, the innovation cycles
as Bernd has alluded to before.
On your first two questions, cloud renewals, no change of performance, very consistent in the
first half year from what we have seen in prior years. In terms of the progression of the margin,
we will see an increase of the operating income contribution in the second half year. That's the
commitment that we have. On the margin side, I think it would be a little bit too early to call for
the turnaround already in the second half year. This will be a subject for 2018.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Okay. Hello, Adam. This is Bernd. Just to comment on your question on the sales cycle. It's indeed
a very relevant question because with Leonardo, we have defined a new go-to-market approach
which is different from selling pre-defined packaged software. We will share resources in co-
engineering and co-innovating the new digital business solutions together with our customers.
And what Bill announced at SAPPHIRE, that we have an accelerated approach where we use our
tremendous industry experience across all 25 industries combined with our technology leadership
and we are able now to demonstrate value added proof points within three months to our
customers.
And then when it comes to revenue recognition, yes, it's not just a new go-to-market, it's as well
a new commercial approach as many of these customers are eager to share investment risks, but
as well benefits with us. And this pay-per-use model is something that we will push forward going
into the future. And the beautiful thing is that this is a very sticky business.
Once, you have implemented this business and you mentioned there is a dedicated percentage
depending on the customer and depending on the industry, each dollar or euro the customer
earns, there is a dedicated percentage going into our P&L. I think I am looking forward to have
this adopted across our installed base but, more importantly, about the Net New Names which
we will conquer every day.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Is this very much about value-based pricing for the customers then?
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Indeed. And I think the beautiful thing is when you talk about value-based pricing, it's about – if
our customers are successful, then we are successful. And if you look back the last 45 years,
that's what we are up for and that's our strategy, being the technology advisor and partner and
not the future competitor of our customers.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
That's very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Thank you. We have time for two more questions, please.Operator
We will take the next question sir, from Mohammed Moawalla from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you, and well done on the quarter from my side as well. Bill, perhaps you could
isolate, obviously, the strong product cycle momentum that you're seeing with us S/4HANA and
the cloud products but also maybe some other macro and cyclical considerations on what you are
seeing? And to what extent is this changing things like the uptick in deal sizes, sales cycles, et
cetera?
And I noticed that the emerging markets also had a particularly strong performance this quarter.
So, as you look at the different growth levers aside from the product cycle, where do you sort of
stand in terms of the different levers as you manage the business?
And secondly, perhaps as we think about the additional kind of investment opportunities,
obviously, you have invested and sort of front-loaded some of the spending in H1 this year. Are
you inclined to sort of invest further upside away in the near-term or would you be inclined to let
that drop to the bottom line?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much for the question, Mohammed, and thank you for your kind remarks.
Right now the macro environment is good, I mean, it's not bad out there at all. I'm on European
Round Table, as you know, and the top industrialists, CEOs at the Europe Round Table are always
talking about how do they compete and how do they digitize their business in the Fourth
Industrial Revolution. If you go to the United States, they call it a digital revolution in digital
business. But in every industry, there is this unbelievable passion for change in digitization which
gives us such an advantage. And if I was just to summarize it for you in five simple points – HANA,
S/4HANA, the line of business cloud, the Business Network and Leonardo – and in five fingers,
you can tell the entire SAP story. And what's so compelling about the SAP story is in all areas we
have the greatest breadth, depth, and reach into industries in global markets of any competitor in
the space.
So, that is why in any given quarter, we could have one industry that's typically strong, another
one that might be softer and we're able to balance that. Now, in geographic terms, when you
look at Japan, Japan was on a roll this quarter and remains on a roll. Asia-Pacific Japan, as a
region, had a standout fantastic quarter and we continue to be the ultimate brand in software in
China, not to mention India, of course.
The U.S. is the more competitive of all the markets, but we have some of the more signature
brands behind us in the United States. I was really pleased with Google going SAP. I think it says a
lot. They know a little bit about technology over there and not only around using SAP, but
purporting SAP in their cloud story, that's powerful, powerful stuff. And IBM moving forward with
Ariba and really thinking through a service around a procurement network for the world. These
are really signature moments.
Europe, think about it, our most mature region continues to grow almost the fastest in the cloud
of all regions and has the highest core revenue growth. The Middle East, you're looking at triple-
digit growth rates in the Middle East. We're becoming the standard. So, we have a really diverse,
well-positioned company and I think it's because we're helping businesses run simple, they allneed to do that, and we have a lead on the technology and the people side. And as long as we
keep it going, we'll be fine.
Now, in terms of giving you the profit flow through, the answer is yes. I'm going to have Luka give
you the details, but I wanted to spend a minute on this so we're talking openly with each other
here. We had a board meeting in Germany, an off-site at my house in Germany. We have an
executive management team that's completely aligned. We've rolled out plans across the entire
company. We're having an all-hands call as soon as this is over. And we're going to tell the story
of look at this revenue growth like no other company in the space.
Now, we wanted to come through on the margin and flow through on the operating income line
so our shareholders as well as our stakeholders can get the leverage in the backend of the year.
Let's have some fun around here. That's the message.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Absolutely, thanks, Bill, and just to get into the details here on the OpEx side. We clearly
have made our investments. So, we would not reinvest upside that we generate in Q3, for
example, in Q4. We are done with our investment plan for 2017.
Second, on the CapEx side, we will continue to invest into our data center expansion and into the
completion of the projects that we have been covering now for a while. This will take the second
half and hence you can expect us to invest roughly the same levels as in Q1 and Q2, also in the
second half. But on the OpEx side, absolutely, you will see full flow through of any results that we
post on the top line.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
That's great. Thank you very much.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Now let's take the final question, please.
Operator
We will now take our final question from `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc from JPMorgan. Please go ahead, madam.
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. Thank you very much. Since I'm last, I might throw a few in there. First of all, can you explain
why the license and support gross margin declined? Could Rob perhaps elaborate on S4 and the
cloud and maybe talk about what percentage of bookings for example? A quick one on where
did the services outperformance come from and what you're expecting in H2? And finally, how
should we think about maintenance growth declining in the next few years?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm not sure whether I could get all of these questions so quickly. Can you be a little bit slower, so
that we can...
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Sure, sorry.A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Luka, I've got them, I've got them. Let me give you quick thing here. So, the whole thing is, Rob,
how's the S/4 Cloud looking? And Luka, on services there's an upturn. We obviously continue to
do well with the best retention rate of our installed maintenance base in the industry. What's the
prospects of that going forward? Those are really the main things.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Good. Then let me answer the support question. I think as you have seen, there has been
some concerns around support revenues at the beginning of the year after Q1. I told you already
that there's always seasonality in our Q1 results. And then through the year, you have win-backs
and the growth rates tend to increase. This is what happened here as well and expect it to
continue.
I think in general, of course, we will see, over time, small declines of the support growth rates. But
support – and license and support in total will continue to be a positive contributor to our revenue
growth definitely until 2020 because we continue to have a very, very robust retention rates in
software support, and we have high value realization by our customers.
On the services side, similarly, we are moving more and more from short-term project
engagements to long-term engagements. Premium support is absolutely showing very, very nice
growth rates. And in the hybrid world in which we are operating at the moment with many of our
customers, this is really essential for our customers to get the optimum value out of their
deployments. Hence, I'm also very confident about the future progress in our services business. I
think we have seen the turnaround now and I think it's materializing clearly in margin
improvements.
On the license and support side, there is not really anything dramatic to mention here. We have
had in certain parts of our portfolio slightly higher license and sales commission costs on third-
party products that we are operating with. This is products that we resell, has nothing to do with
databases where, clearly, S/4HANA and HANA, they are part of the absolute standard. That's the
main contributing factor while support profitability has actually continued to climb up and it
continues to be a positive contributor?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And Rob, you want to talk about S/4 Cloud.
A - `Robert Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations `
Yeah. So, on S/4 Cloud, I'll put it like this, exceptionally strong demand for S/4 Cloud with
companies like Deloitte actually signing on and Cumors (1:08:38). What we see is a tremendous
success with the customers that has signed on, going live in really relatively short period of time
and a high amount of customers are actually live with this product.
So, I would see together an acceleration into the second half based on the demand. But also, I
think that what we're going to see is the leverage with the GCO go-to-market organization as
they get to understand this. S/4 Cloud is definitely going to be a super success inside SAP and
with our customer base.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. This concludes our second quarter earnings call for today. Thank you all for
joining and good bye. Talk to you soon.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, everybody.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude the SAP Q2 earnings conference call. Thank you all for
your participation today. You may now disconnect.