Q3 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Hachisuka from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the Fiscal Year 2017 Third
Quarter. I'm `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation; and Ms. Cito (01:13), an interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Ms. Cito (01:26) will take over the rest of the
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page 2 of
today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page 3. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet homepages.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the third quarter of the fiscal year, which will end in March 2017.
Let me start with slide 5. Compared to the same period of previous fiscal year, consolidated
vehicle sales for the third quarter increased by 65,000 units to 2,280,000 units. Vehicle sales
grew year-on-year in Japan, Europe, and Asia, mainly driven by new models; and in North
America on the back of solid demand for pickup trucks and SUVs. This more than offset the
decline in vehicle sales in the Middle East, where local economies and the markets suffered from
weak oil prices.
Please see slide 6. Our consolidated financial results for the third quarter were net revenues of
¥7,084.1 billion, operating income of ¥438.5 billion, pre-tax income of ¥587.5 billion and netincome of ¥486.5 billion.
Now, I'd like to hand the rest of this presentation to Ms. Cito (03:50), our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Next using slide 7, I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income for the
third quarter year-on-year. Despite the positive factors such as cost reduction and marketing
efforts, operating income was down ¥283.6 billion compared to the third quarter of previous
fiscal year. This was mainly due to the appreciation of the yen, and an increase in expenses.
Please turn to slide 8. For the cumulative nine months, our consolidated financial results were as
following: net revenues of ¥20,154.7 billion, operating income of ¥1,555.4 billion, pre-tax income
of ¥1,764.0 billion and net income of ¥1,432.7 billion. For your information, slide 9 summarizes the
major factors which impacted operating income for the nine months year-on-year.
Now, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region. Please turn to slide 10. In
Japan, vehicle sales for the third quarter increased by 41,000 units year-on-year to 534,000
units, driven by new models such as the Roomy, Tank, the C-HR, and the Prius. Due to the effects
of ForEx rates and an increase in expenses, however, operating income declined by ¥181.9 billion
to ¥211.1 billion, despite cost reduction efforts and vehicle sales growth.
Please see slide 11. In North America, vehicle sales for the third quarter was 745,000 units, up
17,000 units year-on-year, as a result of robust sales of SUVs and pickup trucks, including the
RAV4, Highlander, Tacoma and Tundra. Operating income was ¥101.3 billion, down ¥40.4 billion.
This was mainly due to the negative factors such as an increase in marketing and other expenses,
which exceeded the positive factors such as cost reduction efforts and the increase in vehicle
sales.
In Europe, as you see on slide 12, vehicle sales for the third quarter grew by 23,000 units year-
on-year to 233,000 units on the back of solid sales of the brand new C-HR and the RAV4.
Nevertheless, operating income was in line with the result of the previous year at ¥20.9 billion,
due to an increasing expenses and the effect of foreign exchange rates.
Please turn to slide 13. In Asia, vehicle sales for the third quarter were up 66,000 units year-on-
year to reach 428,000 units, driven by new models such as the Calya, Sienta, and IND (07:18)
series light trucks, especially in Indonesia and the Philippines. Operating income decreased by
¥18.2 billion year-on-year to ¥118.3 billion, despite the positive impact of cost reduction efforts,
mostly due to the effect of foreign exchange rates and decreased exports to the Middle East.
Please move on to slide 14. In other region, overall vehicle sales for the third quarter were
340,000 units, down 82,000 units year-on-year, as vehicle sales in the Middle East were affected
by weak oil prices. Operating income increased by ¥10.7 billion to ¥25.0 billion, mainly due to
marketing efforts, including price improvement, which more than offset an increase in expenses.
Next, please turn to slide 15 for financial services. Operating income, excluding swap valuation
gains and losses, for the third quarter declined ¥10.6 billion year-on-year to ¥72.6 billion. Although
the lending balance continue to grow, the cost related to residual value losses increased as used
car prices for passenger cars in North America deteriorated.
On slide 16, equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the third quarter decreased by ¥16.4
billion year-on-year to ¥89.6 billion, due to declined earnings of our affiliated companies in China.Now, I would like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year to March 2017. Please
look at slide 18. Our latest forecast of consolidated vehicle sales are 8.9 million units, revised up
by 50,000 units from our previous forecast. We are expecting additional vehicle sales in North
America, as the supply of light trucks has improved; and in Central and South America as the
vehicle sales continued to be solid.
Please turn to slide 19. We revised our assumption of foreign exchange rate to ¥110 per dollar and
¥120 per euro, for January onwards. Thus adopting ¥107 per $1 dollar and ¥118 per euro for the full
fiscal year. Based on this, our revised forecast of consolidated financial performance for the full
fiscal year are, net revenue of ¥26,500 billion; operating income of ¥1,850 billion; pre-tax income
of ¥2,070 billion; and net income of ¥1,700 billion.
Please turn to slide 20 for an analysis of our latest operating income forecast. In comparison to
our previous forecast at the time of Q2 reporting, we have revised up our forecast by ¥150 billion
to ¥1,850 billion, based on the assumption of the weaker yen and the increase in vehicle sales.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses, however,
operating income is now expected to be less than our previous forecast. This is due to additional
provision for residual value losses at our financial service business in the United States and an
increase in expenses.
Next, please turn to slide 21, which compares the latest operating income forecast for the current
fiscal year with the result of the last fiscal year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates
and swap valuation gains and losses, et cetera, operating income is now expected to decline by
¥15 billion year-on-year. However, we will strive to turn this into a year-on-year increase through
further profit improvement activities.
Finally, please turn to slide 22. The outlook of R&D expenses, capital expenditure and
depreciation expenses remain unchanged from our previous forecasts.
This summarizes our latest financial results and forecast. Recently, the business environments
surrounding the automotive industry is changing dramatically. This is why it is important for us at
Toyota to reinforce our commitment to the company's principle of contributing to society through
manufacturing automobiles. Based on this principle, we will carry on our activities. Particularly, over
the past month or so, we were able to think further about what Toyota could do in order to
support each country and region in which we operate.
At the same time, we recognized once again, how much support we have been given by our
customers and all other stakeholders in each country and region. To make our customers happy,
we will remain committed to making ever better cars based on Genchi Genbutsu, sowing seeds
for the future, and strengthening our financial foundation. Step by step, we would like to carve
our path towards sustainable growth, together with all our stakeholders.
This concludes my presentation on the financial results for the third quarter of the fiscal year
ending March 2017. Thank you very much for your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Now, we will gladly take your questions. But only up to two questions per person
please. Further question maybe possible later, if time allows. You don't have to name yourself.
Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your lines.
Q&AOperator
Thank you, Mr. Hachisuka. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
Hello, can you hear me?
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Yes.
A - Operator
Yes.
Okay. Thank you very much. Two questions. First of all, could you disclose your leasing ratio in the
U.S. at Toyota Motor Credit Corporation? And how that ratio has changed over the past year?
And as part of that question, could you also disclose the volume of certified pre-owned vehicle
sales in North America over the last year and in comparison to the previous period?
My second question also has to do with North America, and that is, could you disclose the volume
of exports or the volume of vehicles produced in Mexico and sold in North America and how that
has changed? And as part of that question also, could you do the same for Canada? Thank you
very much.
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. So, first, on you first question which is the leasing ratio, last year, it
was roughly 30%. For the current fiscal year, roughly compared to last year, there is a reduction of
3% to 5% in the leasing ratio. Your second question was about the volume of certified pre-owned
vehicles. And compared to last year, we are seeing an increase in units of roughly 30% compared
to last year.
And your last question about the volume of exports from Mexico to the United States and the
Canada. At the moment, the situation is that most of the vehicles produced in Mexico by our
company is exported to the United States.
Does that answer your question?
Q - Operator
If I could, just a bit of a follow-up, could you – the 30% increase in certified pre-owned, what was
the actual volume there? And then also, what was the export from Canada to the United States?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
With regards to volume of certified pre-owned vehicles, according to the most recent data that
we have, on a monthly basis, 35,000 to 40,000. And of all the vehicles that we produce in
Canada, about 80% are exported to the United States.
Q - Operator
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting DivisionThank you very much. Next question please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Hello. My first question would be on the development of the financial services. You
mentioned that you increased your lending balances, but you have higher residual-value losses.
And I just wondered, if we can have some numbers on that. And also major development of your
loan losses and the outlook – your outlook for financial services for the next fiscal year?
The second question is maybe partly related to that about profitability in North America. So
despite higher sales and production cost savings, we saw a sharp drop in the third quarter in
profits in North America, and you mentioned marketing and other incentives, so I just wondered if
the main the issue here higher incentives for passenger cars or what are the other main negative
factors for this? Thank you.
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. So, on your first question which was about financial services, for the
outstanding loan balance, on a consolidated basis, about ¥20 trillion and that compared to much
of 2016 is an increase of ¥1 trillion.
You also asked about the loan loss ratio. It is true that compared to last year there is a slight
increase in our organization. However, we do set appropriate standards for credit standard to
lend our loans to our customers. And also, we have established a system in which we can recover
the amounts lended. So we are able to manage the loan loss ratio at a low level.
Your next question was about our profitability in North America in Q3. What were the factors
behind declining profitability? The first factor is the IT expenses incurred and also expenses
related to our North American One Toyota project. And the second factor is an increase in sales
related expenses, which includes incentives. And the third factor is a foreign exchange rate where
the yen has become stronger. And because of that, when we translate our overseas affiliates and
subsidiaries' profits into Japanese yen, there will be a negative impact.
Excuse me, I have forgotten to touch up on another question that you have asked, which was
about our outlook for the profitability of our financial services business in the next fiscal year. With
regards to our plan for the next fiscal year, currently, we are looking at the numbers and having
discussions with our financial companies at the moment. So we will be able to report to you on
the outlook for the next fiscal year, when we report to you our financial results in May of this year
for the full year.
And one additional comment on our financial services business, and especially for the United
States market, we are seeing an increase in end-of-lease vehicles in the United States. So it's an
impact on the used car market, and therefore, we are closely monitoring the situation. This
situation has been incorporated in our outlook or forecast.
Q - Operator
And just doubling checking the residual value losses, could I have the number for the first nine
months? What the value residual losses were, please?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
With regards to residual value loss numbers, I can give you rough number for the – actual number
for three months, it was roughly between ¥20 billion to ¥30 billion. And on a year-on-year basis,that is an addition of ¥15 billion.
Q - Operator
Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Hi, thank you. My first question is on slide 20. The table at the bottom of the slide, the star three,
shows that you're changing forecast for expenses overall is ¥75 billion. Could you tell me how
much of that relates to the U.S. and how much of that is outside of the U.S.? And proportion
outside of the U.S., what is the main driver of that, please?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
On the breakdown of the ¥75 billion, it is true that ¥75 billion in expenses had a negative impact
on our profitability, but we are not able to give you a region-by-region breakdown of this number.
However, what I can tell you is that, this number mostly comes from translation into yen of foreign
currency denominated provisions or reserves. Because we have revised our foreign exchange
rates towards a weaker yen, when we translate amount into Japanese yen, that would push up
expenses.
So this is because of translation into yen, and therefore, it is not because there has been
something negative happening in terms of quality related costs. So with the – in reality or in
actuality, there has been no major changes. However, as we revised our foreign exchange rates,
the assumed foreign exchange rates, so that we are now updating our calculation on a weaker
yen, and yen translated costs were up.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you. And my second question just relates to the Chinese affiliates. Could you
perhaps describe why they fell so much in Q3?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Yes, for the Chinese affiliate, it is true that we have seen a reduction or decline in our profitability.
Actually, unit sales were up, however, we saw an elevation of the product mix of sales. In other
words, we saw a higher percentage of lower profitability vehicles being sold.
Q - Operator
Do you think that will continue, that mix deterioration?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
We would like to continue to closely monitor the situation in China. However, having said that, it's
very difficult to forecast the future results. However, in the Chinese market, we have seen areduction in vehicle acquisition taxes, and with it, we saw an increase in the number of low priced
models being sold. With regards to the future, starting January of this year, the reduction in the
vehicle acquisition rate has become lower than before, and we will continue to closely monitor
the situation.
Q - Operator
Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next please.
Q - Operator
Good evening. Just a first question on your mention of truck volume increasing based on the
remainder of FY 2017, I am just curious how much flexibility you have to increase production of
trucks and crossovers for the North America market in the short-term and for the intermediate to
long-term, if you have significant plans to change capacity more towards crossovers and trucks?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Now, let me give you an outline on our production capacity expansion for trucks in North America.
First, we have the Indiana factory which is producing Highlanders. At this factory, we have
increased capacity by 30,000 units as of June of last year. And in addition to that, by the end of
last year, we have increased our production capacity at our Mexico plant in Baja California, which
is producing Tacomas. We have increased the capacity there by 16,000 units.
So, those are the production capacity expansions that have already been implemented. Now, I
would like to turn to our planned expansion of capacity. I have talked about the Baja California
factory, and there we are planning another increase of production capacity from end of 2017 to
early 2018. We will increase capacity by 60,000 per year. And for the Indiana factory as well, we
are planning an expansion of own capacity. This factory, as I mentioned, is producing Highlanders
and in or around autumn of 2019, we will increase our capacity by 40,000 per year.
As you have heard, we have increased the capacity at two of our plants by the end of last year,
so we can produce more units of vehicles. And as I have mentioned, we have plans for further
expansion at these factories, and thereby, we are planning to catch up with the U.S. market, in
which we are seeing a shift towards light trucks and SUVs.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you. And then a second question, as we look at the marketing activities increasing in
the short-term, I was just curious if you could define the driving factors of why you're increasing
marketing activities. Is that because of competition or not exact mix with the market, and really
trying to understand what you see as the price elasticity of demand as maybe you reduce price
and what would be the risk, if ultimately you need to raise price to cover border tax adjustments?
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
I am assuming that your question about marketing activities was about our marketing activities in
the United States. So, I am thinking of starting by explaining our stance towards the United States
market, is that answers your question?Q - Operator
Yes. That's the focus.
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
First about the U.S. market, U.S. new vehicle market, last year, the market was 17.55 million, and
for this calendar year, that's calendar year 2017, our forecast is 17.2 million. It is still a large market,
but it is also true that competition is becoming harsher. For example, if you look at the incentives
provided, for the industry as a whole, the trend is upwards.
In this environment, for our company, for the calendar year 2017, we are planning to launch new
Camry and C-HR models, and we would like to communicate the benefits of these vehicles to the
consumers, and thereby, we are planning to increase the number of units and also profits.
And as I have described in the previous question, we have or we are improving our supply
capacity in the light truck category. And therefore, for the calendar year 2017, we are planning to
do roughly the same number of units as last year, that is about 2.45 million units. And as was
mentioned, it is true that if you look at the industry as a whole, the overall trend is an increase in
incentives. And in this environment, Toyota is doing detailed management in control of supply
and demand, and also maintaining inventories at an appropriate level. And by controlling
incentives, we intend to strike a good balance between the number of units and profitability.
And with regards to the trade policy and taxation reform by the Trump administration, it is
extremely difficult to forecast out into the future, and therefore, we will continue to closely watch
and monitor the situation there.
Q - Operator
Thank you very much.
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next please?
Okay. It seems there are no more questions. So this concludes this conference call now. If you
require further information, please contact our IR representatives in New York or London. Thank
you very much for joining us today. Goodbye.