Q1 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Jasmine, your Chorus Call operator.
Welcome and thank you for joining SAP First Quarter Results 2017 Earnings Call. Throughout
today's recorded presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. The presentation will
be followed by a question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the conference over to
Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you all for joining us to discuss our results for the first quarter 2017.
I'm joined by our CEO, Bill McDermott; and our CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, who will both make opening
remarks on the call today. Also joining us for Q&A are board members, Rob Enslin, who runs
Global Customer Operations; and `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation, who leads Products & Innovation.
Before we get started, as usual I want to say a few words about forward-looking statements and
our use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that are not
historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may,
plan, project, predict, should, outlook, and will, and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are
intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement and all
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial
results are discussed more fully in our recent filings with the U.S. Securities and ExchangeCommission, the SEC, including SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2016 filed with the SEC on
February 28, 2017.
Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of their dates.
On our Investor Relations website, you can find our quarterly statement and the financial
summary slide deck which are intended to supplement our prepared remarks today and include a
reconciliation of our non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers. Unless otherwise noted, all financial
numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS and growth rates are non-IFRS as
reported. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide should not be considered as a substitute
for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And finally, we would like to invite you to our customer conference SAPPHIRE NOW in Orlando,
Florida, which runs from May 16 to May 18. SAPPHIRE is a great opportunity to learn more about
SAP's strategy and our product portfolio. We will offer a special program for investors and
financial analysts. Please see the SAP website and contact the SAP investor relations team for
further information.
And with that I would like to turn things over to our CEO, Bill McDermott.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Stefan. And hi, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Like our results, the
mood here at SAP could not be better. SAP's outstanding first quarter results are a decisive
follow-on to a record-setting 2016. They once again validate SAP as a profitable, fast-growth
company. The facts show that we are executing our winning strategy at scale. Our customers are
endorsing the unique breadth and depth of SAP core cloud networks and all come with soaring
adoption for our new innovation on a global basis. We believe SAP is the only company in the
business software industry to deliver soaring cloud growth and double-digit license growth.
Driven by S/4HANA, our core innovations are growing really fast with software licenses up 13%.
We now have more than 5,800 S/4HANA customers with global companies like Energia FI
choosing S/4 in the first quarter. Big brands like Citrix Systems selected S/4 Cloud edition, the
leading intelligent cloud ERP solution in the market by far.
Algier (04:36) Enterprise Services implemented S/4HANA Cloud in just 10 weeks. In the private
cloud, the HANA Enterprise Cloud also continues to be a fast-growth business for SAP. Led by
SAP Digital Boardroom, our reinvigorated analytics portfolio grew in strong double digits across
cloud and software in Q1. SAP's track record of strong M&A is also validated with our amazing
cloud growth. We had one rule, only buy the best companies in the business. Now, these best-in-
class assets have been fully integrated for many, many years. And all of our growth in the cloud is
totally organic. That's something very new to our industry. Our new cloud bookings surged to
49% growth in Q1. Our cloud revenue grew by 34%. SAP Hybris, our customer engagement
solution, saw a triple-digit new cloud bookings growth in the first quarter. Top industry analysts
named SAP Hybris a leader for both business-to-consumer and business-to-business digital
commerce and multi-channel marketing campaign management.
SAP SuccessFactors, another successful quarter. SuccessFactors Employee Central now has nearly
1,700 customers worldwide, by far the leader. Analysts gave SAP the highest rankings in Cloud
HCM for Core HR for global organizations with more than 5,000 workers; Gartner's rarely wrong.
Dolce & Gabbana selected SAP human capital management solutions in Q1, while retail and
telecommunications companies are among many choosing SAP Fieldglass temporary laborSAP was way ahead of the industry with business networks. Today, SAP Ariba has 2.7 million
companies in over 180 countries, trading nearly $1 trillion in goods and services annually on the
Ariba Network. Companies like Ford Motor and New Balance selected Ariba in the first quarter.
Concur helps more than 47 million end users effortlessly process travel and expenses. Big brands
like Penske Premier Truck Group chose Concur. The results make it perfectly clear. SAP is gaining
mass market share against our competition.
Cloud and software powered to 12% growth in the quarter, significantly outpacing our main
competitor. Our cloud portfolio is now a nearly €4 billion business growing north of 30%, faster
than most best-of-breed standalone cloud companies who by the way don't make much money.
We're expanding in every region of the world, in 25 distinctly different industries with businesses
of all sizes. In fact, our SME business added over 1,000 net new customers in the quarter. There is
momentum in every corner of SAP.
Even as we gain, we are never complacent. SAP's innovation agenda will ensure our future is even
brighter, with our API Hub and openSAP Cloud Platform is actively incubating new innovations.
We're also excited that the new partnership initiatives we have built will proliferate the SAP
platform across the hyperscale public cloud providers.
Our Internet of Things business is already the leader with Goldwind Science & Technologies and
Energie Wasser Bern selecting SAP in the first quarter. We are accelerating Internet of Things
innovation, including predictive maintenance, logistics, autonomous payments, quality assurance,
anti-counterfeiting, and industrial security. We are also focused on machine learning, which we
believe takes the work out of workflow. Our first wave of machine learning-enabled applications is
already commercially available today. Examples include invoice and payment matching, predictive
recruiting, intelligent sales forecasting, sales discount approvals and data-driven renewal
management, to name a few. Blockchain is also a major focus. SAP recently joined Hyperledger,
the leading open source collaborative platform to advanced blockchain. We intend to lead.
The strategy I have described has enabled a business model that has never been stronger. Cash
generation was strong with IFRS operating cash flow up 16% year-over-year. We recommended a
dividend for 2016 of €1.25, 9% more than last year. Nearly 65% of SAP employees are
participating in our most recent employee stock program. A role model figure for the IT industry,
we're out in front again.
With the company's positive share price development, employee stock-based compensation
cost rose in Q1. We believe a happy company is a worthwhile investment. With our recently
announced executive board changes, we've put in place a leadership model to continue scaling
our growth agenda.
Rob Enslin, well-known to all of you, will head the Cloud Business Group to drive unprecedented
growth in business networks, human capital management, customer engagement and small and
medium-sized businesses. We also strengthened `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation's organization to include
analytics and a new Chief Technology Officer.
Rob and Bernd will strengthen their end-to-end collaboration to drive customer-driven innovation
and value at the very best in the industry. Our existing cloud line of business end-to-end leaders
will continue to have a dual solid reporting line into Rob for go-to-market and Bernd for product
and innovation. Accordingly, all development resources of the end-to-end units belong to Bernd's
organization, and all go-to-market resources of the end-to-end units belong to Rob's
organization. This is only different for the Business Network where all resources belong to Rob'sFinally, and I'm really excited to report that Adaire Fox-Martin and Jen Morgan will oversee the
global sales organization to bring our products to the customer and strengthen the customer
relationships. I proudly welcome Adaire and Jen to the executive board of SA. What an
accomplishment.
In closing, everything about SAP's business is best-in-class, sustainable and focused on delivering
shareholder value. This company, SAP, is a winner. From Fortune Magazine to Glassdoor and EDGE
Certification, we have never received more accolades as an Employer of Choice. Best of all,
we're just getting started on this once-in-a-generation growth story. Near half of S/4HANA
transactions in Q1 were net new business. More than 80% of our ERP customer base remains in
the S/4HANA pipeline, which is swelling by the moment. We're growing double digits in every
region of the world. Our organic SAP cloud innovation is now the biggest part of our growth story.
With the 22nd most valuable brand in the world, SAPPHIRE NOW 2017 will be the biggest in SAP
history.
For all these reasons, we are firmly reiterating our guidance for the full year. SAP is a profitable,
fast-growth company, ever humble and hungry. I'd like to acknowledge our 86,000 SAP
colleagues worldwide for their immense dedication to our customers and shareholders.
Now I'll turn the call over to our CFO and my good friend, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer. Luka, over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Bill. Hello, everybody from my side as well. And indeed, I mean I'm as
happy as you are, Bill, to announce a really great start to the year, where we continued a rapid
expansion our top line with accelerating cloud growth and an excellent software performance.
This performance clearly demonstrates the entire breadth and resilience of our unique portfolio,
the combination of cloud and on-premise. This outstanding start to the year is also fully in line
with what we communicated at our Capital Markets Day in February earlier this year and further
validates our investment decisions to drive future growth and operating profit.
Now, Bill has already shared with you a few of the impressive growth metrics this quarter. I would
just like to add to this that we had our best year-over-year growth ever in new cloud and software
license order entry, which was up by more than 30%. This KPI represents the order entry from our
software license business plus the total contract value from our cloud business. This exceptional
growth in order entry is a strong achievement, especially when you look at the absolute size and
scale of our business. It really underpins how successful we are in the market with our unique
portfolio.
At the same time, we continue to strive for a more predictable business model. While we had a
strong performance in software revenue in Q1, our predictable revenue base remains stable at
almost 70% year-over-year. Compared to five years ago, our predictable revenue share is now 18
percentage points higher.
Now, let me go into some more detail on the top-line performance. Cloud grew 34% or 30% at
constant currency. So either way you look at it, we have now had growth in cloud of at least 30%
for five straight years in a row. This consistent and fast growth is fueled by our future committed
cloud revenue or new cloud bookings. This actually has accelerated even more compared to the
last quarter, growing by 49%, which is a sequential expansion of almost 10 percentage points.
This constant growth in cloud revenue for nearly half a decade is clear evidence that we made
the right acquisitions at the right time. Bill has alluded to this already. From SuccessFactors to
Concur, we have all successfully scaled and integrated these acquired businesses.Let me also highlight the continued momentum of our industry-leading on-premise business.
Software and support increased by 8%, driven by 13% software license growth.
Finally, our cloud and software revenue grew 12% or 9% in constant currency, which again is above
the high end of our full-year outlook range.
Now, some words on the first quarter regional results. We had a solid performance in EMEA with
an increase in cloud and software revenue of 10%. Cloud subscriptions and support revenue grew
43% with an especially strong quarter in Germany, France and Italy. We had triple-digit software
revenue growth in South Africa and the Netherlands.
In the Americas region, we had a strong performance with cloud and software revenue growing
by 12%. Cloud subscriptions and support revenue was up 27%, driven by a strong performance in
Canada and Mexico with high double-digit growth. In North America, we had double-digit growth
in software revenue. In Latin America, Brazil was a highlight with a very strong software revenue
growth amidst the difficult macroeconomic environment.
In the APJ region, we had a truly exceptional performance in both cloud subscription and
software revenue. Cloud and software revenue was up 21%, with cloud subscriptions and support
revenue growing by 65%. Japan and India were highlights in the quarter with strong results in
both cloud subscriptions and software revenue. We also had strong double-digit software
revenue growth in Greater China and South Korea.
Now, let me come to the bottom line. And before talking about operating profit, I would like to
provide you some more details about the gross margin development for the quarter. As
promised, we have increased the transparency in our segment reporting even further so that you
can see how we perform in our public and private cloud as well as in our Business Networks on a
quarterly basis.
Our overall gross margin increased by 30 basis points to 69.9%, which is a solid result given the
significant mix shift effect in our ongoing investments. Our cloud gross margin decreased by 1.2
percentage points to 64.6% year-over-year, but increased sequentially by 1.9 percentage points.
The year-over-year result was driven by revenue mix shift effects between different cloud models
and the already announced continued investments in Converged Cloud efforts as well as
consolidation and improvement of our data center efficiency.
These investments will negatively affect our 2017 public cloud gross margin. If you look at our
private cloud business, it continues its rapid growth, driving the private cloud gross margin up by
more than 30 percentage points year-over-year.
For the Business Network, our gross margin also increased and was up by 1.5 percentage points
year-over-year to 76.9%. Our cloud and software gross margin was 80.8%, a decrease of 1.5
percentage points year-over-year. This was mainly due to our investments in cloud as mentioned
before, as well as the revenue mix shift effects between our cloud and on-premise revenue lines.
Our services gross margin, really a bright spot in the quarter, was up by 6.8 percentage points
year-over-year to 20.7%. In 2016, as you know, we invested heavily in co-innovation projects with
customers in some strategic industries to focus on customer outcome. Since these investments
are phasing out this year, as already shared before, as well as consulting utilization increased, our
service margin in consequence improved in Q1 as expected. We are now doubling down on
adjusting our services organization for the new reality of digital enterprises to further capitalize on
the momentum that we have gained.In terms of the operating profit, we had a solid performance in the quarter, up 8%. And let me
remind you that we achieved this result even though we continue to invest in future growth as we
said we would, even though we had higher personnel expenses as we added over 7,500 FTEs or
a 10% increase compared to the prior year period and we continue to hire highly educated young
talents in our fast-growth areas and locations, even though we continue to experience a
significant mix shift effect as I outlined earlier and all of these in our smallest top line quarter of
the year.
All these effects continue to weigh on our overall operating margin. But with our strong top line
growth and the fact that the Converged Cloud investment should be largely finished in 2017, we
continue to be very confident that we will grow our profitability in 2018 and beyond as we
discussed at our Capital Markets Day.
The IFRS tax rate in the first quarter was 20.6%, a decrease of 2.7 percentage points compared
to the prior year period. The non-IFRS tax rate in the first quarter was 25.7%, also down from
26.2% in the prior year period. Non-IFRS earnings per share increased by 15% driven both by a
lower effective tax rate and the strong finance income contribution due to another exceptional
performance of our venture capital activities around our market-leading venture capital firm,
Sapphire Ventures.
IFRS earnings per share decreased by 9% and was mainly impacted by our share-based
compensation expenses which increased due to the strong development of our share price and
the increased participation of our employees.
Now, a few words on cash flow and liquidity. In the first quarter, we reported a record €2.9 billion
in operating cash flow, increasing by 16% year-over-year. This also led to a strong free cash flow
for the first three months. This figure is growing by 12% to €2.6 billion. As of the end of the first
quarter, we improved our net liquidity by €2.8 billion year-over-year to a net debt of €460 million.
Looking to the rest of the year, we have now already paid back a further €1 billion in April and
intend to pay back approximately €1.4 billion in total in financial debt this year. We expect for the
next quarter's cash-related outflows due to share-based compensation programs and the
transformation of our services organization as well as the debt repayments. (23:06) we are
nevertheless confident that our operating cash flow development will remain positive for the full
year. As a result of our strong order entry pipeline, as Bill has said, we are firmly reiterating our
outlook for the full year. We would now expect the currency benefit, and have updated our
expectations we expect on reported growth rate for 2017. For more details, please refer to our
quarterly statement published earlier today.
Finally, as I conclude my remarks, I would like to talk about our higher purpose. As our customers
face increasing global challenges such as stable market trends, modest growth, income
distribution, political volatility and digitization, we have a responsibility to think about how
technology can contribute to solving these problems.
Many prominent companies are working to achieve the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals
and IT is the foundation for at least half of these goals. We at SAP can work towards these goals
by delivering software that helps solve these pressing issues. For example, solutions that power
smart cities or those that can help contribute to better healthcare therapies.
In this spirit, we also strive to act as an exemplar of responsibility. In February, we issued our fifth
integrated report where we announced a decrease in our greenhouse gas emissions for the third
year in a row. In fact, we are now taking the next step, announcing that SAP aims to be carbonWe also have a responsibility to our employees. For 2016, we saw a record employee
engagement of 85%, a very high level that we will strive to maintain over the coming years. We
are consistently improving employee retention, which increased to 94.1% in Q1, up 2.1 percentage
points year-over-year. Trust in our leaders as measured by our leadership gross Net Promoter
Score also increased to 57%, up 5% year-over-year.
And as Bill mentioned, our employees are also investors, with nearly 65% participating in our
most recent stock program.
We also remain focused on diversity. We have already almost achieved our goal of 25% of
women in management by the end of 2017. These efforts are being recognized externally, with
SAP being named Employer of Choice, most recently being ranked one of the top six best
international workplaces in Asia. And oekom, an independent rating agency for sustainable
investment recognized us as a leader in software and IT services in their Corporate Responsibility
Review.
So, to summarize we released very strong first quarter results today, showing continued
momentum and stronger execution. We continue to make strategic investments in 2017 and
expanded our profit even in our smallest top line quarter of the year. SAP is the clear leader in
business and enterprise software and has never been in a stronger position.
To think about S/4HANA in the digital core, there is no doubt that SAP is winning and that we are
continuing to take substantial market share. As we continue our acceleration to the cloud,
increased not only the predictability of our revenues, but we will also improve gross margins and
profitability. This is what the entire executive board of SAP is committed to.
Our strong free cash flow generation, while investing for the future, provides significant
optionality around strategic decisions aimed at driving customer and shareholder value. SAP is
extremely well-positioned for success through 2020 and far beyond.
Thank you very much and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. I hand you back to the operator. We can now start the Q&A session, please.
Q&A
Operator
The first question comes from the line of `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. Thank you. I have a couple of questions around margins really. In the press release, you say
that you were confident that you'll grow your profitability in 2018 and beyond. Are you also
confident that your profit margin can increase and more specifically if I look in the quarter, can you
say why sales and marketing cost as a percentage of revenues was up in the quarter? Do we
expect the same pattern to the year? And then can you talk about the cloud margins, I think a
little bit disappointing in Q1? Can you talk about which of the investment areas finish in 2017? I
know you mentioned Converged Cloud, but what about distribution, data center delivery, those
areas, do they also finish in 2017 and can we expect that to move up in 2018?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, absolutely, I'll try to handle them all, Stacy. So first of all, on the profitability increase in 2018
and beyond, yes, I mean I've made it very clear that we believe that 2017 we'll see the drops in
company margins. We have at the moment a relatively high level of investment into those
indiscernible (28:53) off third-party database platforms and onto HANA and converged in the
cloud infrastructure, data center consolidations and these programs will have largely run their
course at the end of 2017. We are seeing already the improvement in the services margin and we
believe that this will continue, and then with the increased sale of our cloud business, we
absolutely believe that in 2018 our company margins should start to move up again.
In terms of the sales and marketing expense, remember two things when you compare ratios
year-over-year. First of all, we have made high investments into additional distribution capacity,
especially in the second half of 2016, when you take a look at our total run rate for employees
that we have year-over-year. On a constant level, we have 7,500 additional employees on board
and we have invested ahead of time of course also in the sales capacity. Our hiring in Q1 was not
so much focused on sales anymore, but rather in areas like cloud delivery as well as R&D. But of
course, this increased investment on the sales capacity side is now meeting the smallest quarter
in the year.
Also, in early 2016, we still took some advantage of the rundown of the transformation program
in 2015, which was not there in 2017, obviously. So that's part of the reasons, Of course beyond
that, also 2017, the first quarter was much more successful than the first quarter of 2016 and
hence our accruals for bonuses in the field of course have been higher than in 2016 as well.
But for the remainder of the year, when the revenue basis of course starts to increase it should
not give you too many headache, now worries. And in terms of the cloud margins, you will have
seen that actually we were not only up from a cloud gross margin perspective sequentially, but
also across two of our business models in the cloud, in the private cloud HANA, and the public
cloud. For the first time, we have actually reached double-digit gross margins, more than 30%
increase year-over-year. And in this business, I have no doubt in my mind that we will soon reach
the target long-term margin level of 40%, in line with our internal planning.
Similar for Business Networks, continued steady march into almost 77% now. So we are here
already in striking distance to our long-term target. In public cloud, software-as-a-service space,
this is where we have the Converged Cloud investments. But as I've said, they are largely
expected to be finished by the end of 2017, making room for exponential cloud margin
improvement in SaaS, PaaS as of 2018, and hence our belief that we will see the cloud
contributing exponentially more to absolute operating profit, but also to margin improvement as
of next year is absolutely intact, and we are actually working just in line with our internal planning
in this regard.
Thank you very much. Let's take the next question please.
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
That was very useful. Thanks.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of John King of Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Yeah. Hi, everyone. And thanks for taking the questions. I've got three, if that's all right. So, first of
all, on the restructuring plan, Luka, on the services organization, can you just give us an idea of
the return on investment of that, in terms of the impact that might have on the services gross
margin in the outer years? Obviously thinking about where the margins could go to, as you
double down there. The second one is obviously the cash outflow there. So, does that have an
impact at all on your thoughts around the buyback? I think you've been thinking about a buyback
into Q3, is that changed at all by this plan?
And the third one, I think, actually I apologize, probably also for Luka as well. On the maintenance
side, I think it was a little bit weaker, it looks about a 3% growth in the support revenue, slightly
slower than we'd seen in the last two or three quarters. So any one-offs there? Or is that just a
little bit of the effect of the cloud is somewhat taking away some of the support contracts?
Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, let me first answer the later two questions first, because that's very quickly. On the
restructuring-related cash outflows and the impact on the share buyback, no, that has not any
impact. We continue to largely see the same expectations on a total liquidity and cash flow basis
that we had before. On the maintenance side, no, you might have seen in the past also that
maintenance occasionally is slow when we start the year. This year we had a very healthy inflow of
cloud extension deals. You see that also in the very strong performance on the new cloud
bookings side. However, we have a number of maintenance-related impacts, as well as releases
of sales allowances lined up for the second quarter and beyond, so that seasonality should
definitely turn into our favor as we progress further during the year.
On the restructuring in the services business, let me clear this was all meant to actually
accompany the past (34:29) growth in our services business that we are clearly seeing now. We
have done heavy lifting of our costs over the last two, three years to rightsize the services
business. Now, utilization is very strong, and you have seen as well on the revenue side that we
are back to quite solid growth, solid 6% constant currency growth or 9% at nominal rates. We
believe we have an opportunity to really double down on our services business and create new
and distinctive capabilities to accompany our customers through the digital transformation
journey that they're on. And these kind of digital consulting capabilities are something that we
really want to build up across the entire organization. This should also be a very high value
services with a very high stickiness for our customer that should indeed improve the overall
margin profile of our services business further.
When this will be the case is a little bit a timing question, and we, as you know, are generally
anyway projecting an increased service profitability for the coming years. We are now for the third
quarter in a row above the 20% mark. We should definitely or soon after these restructuring
efforts not fall down below this margin level any longer. To what extent we can achieve increases
there is something that we will see.
But generally speaking, I think the path that we are taking now is setting us up for continued solid
growth in our services business, and so we believe this will not be a declining business for SAP
any longer. That's the most important thing as services is truly instrumental in helping our
customers chart a path towards embracing entirely our innovation portfolio.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC of RBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks a lot. I had a question for Bill. Bill, you said the organic cloud innovation is now the biggest
part of your cloud growth story. I guess that means both innovation in some of the acquired
businesses, but also the new S/4HANA public cloud edition, and I wondered if you could focus
maybe on that for a minute. Any metrics you could share on S/4HANA public cloud, I guess
specifically around customer count, customer wins, et cetera? Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, of course, Ross. Thank you very much for the question. First of all, it kind of takes a moment
to remind ourselves that it was several years ago when we acquired SuccessFactors and Ariba
and Concur and Fieldglass. These companies have been in our organic run rate now for some
time, and one of the messages I wanted to convey today is if you take SAP's core license
business growing this quarter in double-digits and the cloud growing at 34%, with bookings
growing at 49%. When you add the core, the cloud together, you have an amazing growth story
in SAP and all of it is organic. We haven't bought anything in a long time.
If you compare that to any other large scale company in our space, if you add their steeply
declining core to their acquired cloud revenue, you still have a declining business. And that is the
market share point that hopefully you all have ascertained from these numbers where SAP is
really on a tear and every one of our cloud entities, the line of business, the Business Network are
growing faster than the original business case assumptions we made when we acquired the
companies. The other thing I think you want to know is our HANA Enterprise Cloud, our SAP cloud,
is not only growing steeply, it's actually growing faster than all of our other cloud businesses and
as Luka said, it's now in double-digit margins and improving ever steadily and that used to be the
heavy lift, right, because that was a startup business not too long ago.
So now you have all these cloud businesses in the company firing on all cylinders. As it relates to
the S/4 Cloud story, I'll let Bernd make some comments on that, because we have both Bernd
and Rob with us today. But I do want to underscore we're running that as an end-to-end business,
we're going [Technical Difficulty] (39:19-39:37)
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we apologize for the pause in the presentation. Please remain online. You
will be hearing music until the presentation Q&A session resumes.
[Technical Difficulty] (40:03-43:10)
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Sorry for the short interruption, we are ready now to take the next question please.
OperatorSo `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC was in the Q&A line.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Exactly.
Operator
Your line is open, `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
I think the question from Ross was already addressed. We would like to take the next question
please.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Next question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Michael Briest of UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thanks. Good afternoon. Luka, coming back to the cloud margins, I appreciate this sort of legacy
architects that you're still having to pay for. If I look at 2016, your costs were about €460 million in
the SaaS business and revenues were €1.2 billion. To get to your 2020 target, you've got about
€2 billion-plus of revenues and about €300 million of costs. So I'm just wondering how much of
that cost that's in there today is going to disappear and whether you think this year margins in the
SaaS, PaaS business will be flat, or indeed if the overall cloud business will generate flat gross
margins or even perhaps improve them?
And then just, Bill, on the S/4 uptake, I mean could you give some data points? I think Ross asked
around but maybe the number of public cloud customers that you now have on S/4 and whether
also the 400 overall S/4 additions in the quarter was as you expected? Would you think that
maybe it will accelerate as we go through the year and 2017 we'll see more adds than 2016?
Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Michael. Maybe let me first address the question around the cloud gross margins. For this
year, we expect a roughly stable overall cloud gross margin. You have seen in Q1 that we are
slightly better in the Q1 cloud gross margins compared to the full-year 2016, but I think assuming
a stable cloud gross margin is a fair assumption here.
In terms of the march to the 2020 target, yes we absolutely believe that the SaaS, PaaS business
will – the biggest net accelerator on cloud gross margins as we exit 2017. They have a huge catch-
up to do, but if you think about the fact that at the moment we are essentially operating duplicate
infrastructures across the main one of our SaaS, PaaS assets, especially SuccessFactors, that of
course is a massive cost burden that will basically go entirely away once all of the customers are
migrated by the end of this year. And so we are still confident that we will achieve the gross
margin progression marching towards around about 80% that we have in mind for SaaS, PaaS by
2020.Admittedly, it's a big jump, but all of the investments that we are putting in right now are setting
us up for exponential efficiency increases later on. Then maybe over to you, Bill, to wrap on the...
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
So, the second part of the question, Luka, what was it, it didn't come through here.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Yeah. Michael, can you repeat?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
The second part of your question.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Yes, on S/4 do you think, I mean, you did 407 in the quarter with 500 in Q1 last year. I know it's a
small quarter, but were you disappointed by that, do you think you will do more this year than last
year? And just an update on public cloud within that?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Michael, great question. I think we'll continue to accelerate the S/4 – the HANA business, it still
looks pretty strong, our pipeline looks strong, what we're seeing that value stories are not
coming out consistently across all the customer base. And it is truly the digital story for SAP and
our customers. And I think you will continue to see that. Were we happy or disappointed with
400, I think the bigger topic is we have 5,800, we have a snowballing effect now on the go-live
customers, and we have more and more projects ongoing that are more complete than just
finance, it's logistics. So it's really a very, very good story for all of SAP.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And the one thing that you have to keep in mind on S/4HANA and the answer is definitively you'll
have more this year than last year by a lot is when you're the CEO of a company, just think about
that as your digital core and then you have all the attach rates of the line of business, the
business network, machine learning, AI, the Internet of Things.
I was recently meeting with a CEO of an energy company who chose us to rip and replace the
competition and it's a net new customer to SAP. It was the strength of S/4HANA as the core
platform, but it was also the attach rates of all the other entities within the company that aligned
their board and coalesced SAP as the ultimate winner and that would be a more difficult decision
to make than status quo. So the innovation is there, Michael. We're going to win every place, it's
going to be an unbelievable year.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And maybe just finally take a look at the average share of revenues that we drive from
orders bigger than €5 million, S/4HANA was certainly the major contributor to this.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC of Wells Fargo Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hi. Thanks guys and congrats on just a really great, great quarter. A question for you, Bill. You've
talked a lot in the past about the innovations that you all have done on the EDGE, reinvigorating
the core and I know you and Luka always say don't read too much into Q1. But if I read into the
string of quarters that you all have reported here, it does seem that you have enough data points
to say that the core is reinvigorate – is improving. When you think about, I guess two questions
here, first in terms of just the go-forward, just demand here. What you are seeing between sort
of the core and the EDGE and how are you thinking about that and then in terms of just the go-
to-market strategy, with a reinvigorated core and continued strong growth on the EDGE. How are
you balancing that from just a sales go-to-market perspective?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much Phil. And I'll of course let Rob and other colleagues on the board make
any comments they want to. But I want to first of all say this idea of the EDGE to the core and the
core to the EDGE really started when SAP made the bold move into the cloud some seven years
ago and we recognized at that time, we became very relevant in our core ERP conversation
because we had made a move into the line of business cloud and the business network. Now,
since we reinvented our core ERP system on S/4HANA, we're the only company in the world that
can tell a C-level decision-maker, you can run your transactional systems and your analytics all on
one database, one common S/4HANA platform for all of your ERP activities.
And why this is so powerful is every single CEO you talk to wants to align the soft stuff, meaning
the management team and the people, motives of a company, along with the hard stuff, which is
the transactions and the financials of a company. Only SAP unifies this in one real-time, in-memory
sweep and there's the S/4HANA sell. Now, what's interesting on the go-to market side that I have
seen is we underplayed industry at Sap. We're in 25 industries, and the more you can customize
and tailor this conversation to the unique subtleties of industry, the more you walk away with
market share.
The second thing is we're seeing an extreme rise in new business sales. I gave one example a
few moments ago, but you have to remember 50% of our names in Q1 were net new. And at the
same time, you're seeing now the cloud entities at the line of business, the core ERP, as well as
the network, grow really fast, especially when you look at the bookings metric of 49%.
So here's my hypothesis on the industry; why is SAP the de facto standard business software
company in the world? I'll tell you why. Because even if we don't win every sale and somebody at
a point solution level takes something, they still have to live with us in the other 80% of the
enterprise. And frankly, when you're thinking like CEOs think, they want things to be simple.
So, if you're at least good enough in all the other areas and you own the core, you'll own the
EDGE, you'll own the network, you'll own IoT, and I think that's represented in our numbers. And I
kindly ask you all to take the back of the envelope approach, add up the revenues that others are
getting from M&A, add up their core declines, one plus one equals negative two. And when you
add up SAP's numbers, one plus one equals three-plus.A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question and congratulations from me for a strong start to the year as
well. Maybe just coming back to the cloud business, you've obviously seen acceleration in the
bookings there. Could you maybe give us a little bit more color on what's driving that? Is it new
customers versus the installed base? Is it the S/4 public cloud or rather traditional customers
maybe buying subscriptions on S/4 rather than coming in with licenses?
And then, secondly, just thinking about the net new build that you alluded to just there, I think we
will think about that maybe by value being less than it is by volume because it's essentially smaller
customers. Could you maybe help us understand how big that opportunity could be if you are
starting to win some larger net new names there, and is that a significant opportunity for SAP
over the next few years? Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I'll just give you big picture, Adam. So, first of all, I would like to say that SAP has been a
very, very successful company without putting all the wood behind the arrow in SME. And one of
the detractors to really growing and taking over the SME market had been the limitations of an
on-premise business model. It's just not fast enough to scale as fast as a company like ours
would like to.
Well, that now has been taken off the table. You have B1 on HANA. You have ByDesign growing
very fast but now we have S/4 Cloud edition that without a doubt, mark it down with a giant
crayon, will be the leader in not only small, medium sized but even upper mid market for cloud
computing in the ERP world. So, that business is on a tear, and I think that's a big bogie of growth
that is upside as we think about our future.
Bernd, I'll let you make some comments on that, and Rob. But also we ran through the Fortune
1000 and 2000 a little while ago with 350,000-plus customers, but when you think about the
SME market, there's literally millions of them out there that could be in the SAP portfolio. And
we're going after it with everything we have. So I think you're now seeing us completely unified
on S/4 Cloud edition being something that could take over the market.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Maybe, Adam, hello this is Bernd, just to add additional flavor to your question. If I'm looking back
on the business of ERP over the last decade, it was very hard and tough for us to win net new
names. Now, with S/4 and specifically with S/4HANA Cloud, if we take the overall triple-digit
growth and then look at the customer list, it's in a range of between 35% and 45% of net new
names. And this gives us a tremendous opportunity not just to convert an installed base from an
on-prem world into the cloud as well to conquer complete new markets. And this is the path we
have going forward, and looking at the numbers we are confident that this path is really
resonating very well. Rob, any additional comments from your side?A - `Robert Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations `
Yeah. I think people forget that S/4HANA, ERP, there is nothing else like it in the market at all.
When you look what it does and how it changes businesses and how it connects digital supply
chains, it is by far the next generation ERP and everyone else is far away behind. And then when
you connect all the machine learning and IoT in the analytics space, we are the only company on
the distribution side and on the product side that have a true supply chain end-to-end for the
digital world. And I think that's the major difference.
There is nobody else out there that can actually talk about what it looks like in the digital world to
connect an ERP system and actually look at next generation of applications. And I think you'll see
us change it as more and more AI and artificial intelligence becomes relevant for S/4HANA.
So I think the opportunity is huge. I think the S/4 Cloud opportunity is going to be incredible, some
of the companies that signed up like Chemours, a pretty significant company in the chemical
business, that just committed to SAP, and I think you'll see us do really well in this space.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And keep in mind, just in closing on this topic, Adam, if you take Latin America, take a market like
Latin America, this was an on-premise market up to about 18 months ago. Today, we get more
revenue out of the cloud in Latin America than anything on-premise. So this is an interesting
dynamic. There's another region that's now crossing over to more cloud revenue than the on-
premise world; and we've been in business for a little while. And in 2018, the cloud eclipses the
on-premise revenues of SAP. So the more we fulfill the initial vision to be the cloud company
powered by HANA, the more we can mass-scale our enterprise in small, medium, large, 25
industries in 193 countries; that's the game plan.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Thank you very much.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question please.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Just have two on S/4 probably for Rob or Bill. Just first of all,
regarding the kind of adoption now which you see in the pipeline, the last kind of year and a half,
it was a lot of kind of smaller deals, kind of at the divisional levels. Do you start to see in the pipe
now a large enterprise-wide adoption for kind of S/4? Then secondly, how many go-lives did you
have in the quarter? And then finally a question for Luka on the kind of gross margin. The drop in
the core business in software and kind of support too in the kind of quarter was a bit unusual,
given the kind of good improvement we've seen over the last kind of four quarters. Was this an
aberration, and should we expect that gross margin, it ticks up for the other three quarters, or is
there a structural reason why it's coming down now? Thank you.
A - `Robert Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations `So, when it comes to the go-lives for S/4HANA, we have now over 700 go-lives, it's up
significantly more than – as I said early on, more than 2,700 projects ongoing; almost all of those
projects are 1610 version, so significant logistics. And when we look at the large enterprises, I
would pretty much say that almost every single one of our large customers that have a plan or
are busy implementing S/4 at some point. We've have seen it with my advisory board to the
group, every single one of them has a project – or some of them are already live with significant
parts of their business. Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. On the gross margin, I think the key on the software and support margin side again is mix
shift effects, because we had, as was discussed before, a slightly slower start on the
maintenance side. Hence the mix of software versus support was a little bit more unfavorable as
it was last year and that basically drove the slight deterioration there in total. What we said at the
Capital Markets Day absolutely still holds, that we believe that there will be a continuous slight
upward trend, just because the relative weight of support will increase, as well as the exposure to
third-party license sales commissions and royalties will decrease over time as we further scale our
S/4HANA business. So that's our expectation more from a full year basis, and also looking into
next year.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Alex Tout of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alexander William Tout, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I think a lot of the SAP-specific ones have been
asked but maybe if you could comment on the macro environment a little bit. How do you see IT
budgets, are they healthy at this point? I think when we – we've seen some numbers from some
of the IT services ecosystem that had been – that kind of indicated a bit of a slow start to the
year. I mean, is there anything to be concerned about as far as you're concerned, pockets of
strength and weakness that you may be seeing across sectors, how energy looks for example at
the moment? And anything to be concerned about with the European elections, some of the
politics out there as we go through the year?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to say I'm very pleased that I
had an outstanding meeting in 2014 with Emmanuel Macron when I went to visit François
Hollande, and it's nice to see excellent people like him compete for the biggest offices in the
world, because he viewed technology in his role on the economy then as a major driver to
innovation and a force multiplier for the economy. And I think more and more in the public sector,we're seeing really smart people know that they have to utilize technology and innovation as they
lever to deliver results, and this is more and more becoming the case around the world, whether
it's Brazil, it's the EU countries, the United States, and Asia, and that's very exciting.
As it relates to energy specifically, it was one of our top energy industries in Q1 and it's one that I
have personally been participating in and is an executive sponsor with some of the most critical
energy companies in the world, all of them are looking to change and do big things with SAP. I
could tell you that the macro environment looks very good, the pipelines around the world look
very good and I think what's unique about this moment in time is we see good numbers in the
BRIC and all the major geographies around the world have strong pipelines and they are all
performing for us at least in double-digits, deep double-digits in the cloud and in some cases,
depending on the business, even triple-digits as the case with S/4 Cloud edition.
So we're very bullish right now. We think some of the world's biggest problems can only be
solved by innovative technology and we're really proud to be a leader. And I think we're also
getting more humble by the minute, because even as we taste success, we resist the temptation
to get intoxicated by it. We instead are redoubling our efforts and focusing on that customer and
inspiring our people like never before to get the job done, because our customers, customers,
need our customers.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. I think we have time for one final question now.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard of Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thank you. I guess question on the sales and marketing spend for Luka, as we see the year
unfold at this level of growth in terms of cloud and license. Do you expect to see your target
achieved for the year or do you expect that you would spend more as it relates to the target –
because it seems like you're tracking a bit above on the top line, just trying to understand if you'll
see incremental leverage on this higher top line or is that incremental top line would require
more spending on the – specifically sales and marketing?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
No. I mean, as you have seen, we have confirmed all our outlook metrics for the full year. Let's
remember the Q1 is our seasonally smallest quarter that holds both for the top line, as well as
then consequently for the impact of our sales and marketing investments on and against that top
line as we further progress through the year. We believe that with the investment levels that we
have planned for, we are well-equipped to fund all of our core business operations. We don't see
a need to further increase the investment levels and we believe that ultimately we are very
comfortably positioned to meet our full-year targets, not only with regard to the top line but also
with regard to the bottom line.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Very good. Thank you very much. This was the last question we had, our call today. Thank you very
much for joining. This concludes the SAP Q1 2017 earnings call. And we hope to see you in
Orlando at SAPPHIRE, please check the SAP website for further information.Thank you very much for joining and goodbye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the SAP Q1 2016 (sic) [2017] earnings results conference
call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.