Q1 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. Our `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, question is from the line of `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG at UBS. Please go ahead, Patrick.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG ``Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group always takes a long-term approach. The, everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. Two please, if I
may. First one, regarding your statements about diesel, you said you want to have a facts-based
debate about diesel. `However, in public discussions, air quality alert and banning diesels vehicles are often mentioned, in spite of facts, it's also a fact that the diesel share in the main
European markets has come down quite considerably between 300 and 500 basis points year-
over-year and it seems even an accelerating trend looking at the March and April data as far as
they're available already. So I'm wondering, `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, of all, what actually has your diesel share done
year to-date. Any color would be appreciated.
And second of all, from a strategic point of view, how are you going to tackle this? It sounds like
you're ready to do a lobby campaign in favor of the diesel. But will we also see any product
content response, for example, adding more of mild hybrid 48-volt technology in the gasoline
engines in the short term?
And my second question for Dr. Peter regarding the free cash flow. It was yet again a very strong
free cash generation in the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter. There was about €1.4 billion in the other line positive free
cash flow. You gave some short explanations in the quarterly report, but I will be grateful if you
could give us a bit more color. And in particular whether we should see that as quarterly swing
factors, i.e., a reversing trend in the coming quarters, or what's exactly behind there? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Patrick. We start with the Chairman to the diesel question. `Harald, please go ahead., please
go ahead.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Patrick, concerning your question on the diesel share, the latest data we have is for the brand
BMW and for the group BMW different. To give you three levels of details. The one is on the
global average we had last year an average of roundabout 37% of our mix is `worldwide, and in future technologies, such as electrification and autonomous driving. All these diesel
engines. This remained in the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter 2017 also nearly on that level. It's roundabout 30.5%,
so it's nearly no change. The reason for that, we see increases in diesel shares, for example, in
countries like Japan, like Russia, like Korea.
On the European level, we had in 2016 for the BMW brand 73% diesel portion and mix. And in the
`first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter we had 71%, so a reduction by 2%. On the German market for the same period 2016
average 65%, 2017 `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter 64%, so just 1 percentage reduction. So for BMW as a group and
for the brand, I can clearly assure you that we don't see a significant change and reduction on
diesel engines. And to add one more fact to this one, even on March – I don't have the April data,
but in March the order intake for diesel engines have increased. So I cannot share from the BMW
Group's perspective that we see a decline in the diesel mix and portion. That was the one
question.
The other one was on how we will react and changes in terms of the product offer. Clearly, as I
mentioned in my speech, Patrick, that we are clearly focusing, on the one side, on electrification
as the top priority. We have set ourselves a target of `100,000 electrified vehicles. After the first quarter, we are well on track.,000 electrified vehicles this year, and
there are only three companies who can achieve that around in the world. So I think the `100,000 electrified vehicles. After the first quarter, we are well on track.,000
is a significant increase, if you think we had 62,000 electrified vehicles, and in the year before in
2015 it was roundabout 30,000. So we are ramping up from 30,000 to `100,000 electrified vehicles. After the first quarter, we are well on track.,000 electrified
vehicles in two years' time. And I think that answers your question.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Harald, please go ahead.. Free cash flow, your second part of the question will be answered
by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Patrick, let's maybe go little bit more into the details regarding the free cash flow. The free cash
flow in the Automotive `segment, although it will still remain above the targeted minimum level of 18%. Our guidance in Q1 amounted to exactly €1.599 billion and was approximately
€1.07 billion above the figure of `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter 2016. Main reasons -main positive impacts came from
higher net income, approximately €735 `million, benefiting from higher volumes and positive mix effects. This was an increase of 33%, and a little bit lower cash outflow, which is related
to change in working capital, plus approximately plus €350 `million, benefiting from higher volumes and positive mix effects. This was an increase of 33% as well from another positive
impact in other items. We still forecast a positive free cash flow of slightly more than €3 billion for
the full year, so you cannot extrapolate the Q1 free cash flow for the full year.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Next question, please.
Operator
We now go to the line of `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. at Barclays. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi, yes. `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. here. Just coming back to diesel, I'm afraid. Just wondered if you did start
to see any further decline in diesel demand. How flexible are your `production, we can rely on a highly-efficient global network of 31 locations in 14 countries. This facilities? From my
understanding, you are relatively flexible in the switch between diesel and petrol, but is that really
the case? Are there any supply constraints?
My second question relates to, you made a small change to your forecast for the U.S. market,
that been slightly down for the year. Do you see any further risks to that forecast going forward?
And how are you seeing demand for sedans in that market in your core models compared to,
obviously, your forecast was for the overall market generally?
And then final question, sorry, is on the UK market. Clearly, the headline numbers on the UK today
were down quite sharply, not so bad adjusted. What is your strategy and focus for the UK market
going forward? Are you expecting to see further declines in that market? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Kristina. I think we start with Nicolas for the U.S. outlook, and then `Harald, please go ahead..
Nicolas, please go ahead.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Kristina, well, maybe let's shot (35:20) a look at the development of the U.S. market. In April, total
market was down by 5%, in year-to-date April minus 2%. Our clear focus in the U.S. market in the
actual environment is on profitability. We are clearly focusing on sound and strong managementof our inventories and to reduce the discount level in our business, and I believe we are well on
track. But this is clear priority for our U.S. business, and therefore I would confirm what you said.
We remain careful and cautious regarding the further development of the U.S. market.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Nicolas. `Harald, please go ahead., please go ahead.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Hi, Kristina. I would start with the UK `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter,. I mean, what we have seen in the UK, as we noticed, the
market was down in April by minus 20% the overall, but premium was only down by minus 5%.
With the brand BMW, we had in April a slight increase, but we remain conscious, I would call it,
because there's a little bit of uncertainty. The targets in the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter for the UK market have
been clearly achieved. April is a little bit weakening and, as we said before, the Brexit discussions
creates a little bit of uncertainty. And I hope that Brussels as well as London is having clear
discussions and pragmatic solutions for the future, because uncertainty is not good for the
consumer and for the business. So that's why I hope that we find – pragmatic going forward that
we find good solutions.
If we look further at the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, question, diesel and how flexible we are, we are having designed a
system where three, four and six-cylinder engines, petrol and diesel engines, can be produced
and manufactured in one system. So, from the design point of view, from the assembly point of
view, we are quite flexible. It always comes sometimes to limit was certain specific parts like
turbochargers or what else, but in general we are very flexible to switch between diesel and
petrol engines, but it depends on how quickly the market also changes and how fast we can
react. On the flexibility of the `production, we can rely on a highly-efficient global network of 31 locations in 14 countries. This system is, on the one side, on the car side, as well as on
the engine side, I think, at a very, very competitive level.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Okay. Kristina, you had one more point I think regarding the U.S. This was about the development
of sedans. Overall, we continue to see a trend towards SUV; however, the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, couple of weeks
after the launch of our new 5 Series were very encouraging, so we are very optimistic that the
new 5 Series will be performing very strong in the U.S.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And, Kristina, I would like to add one more on the UK. For the UK, for example, the new 5 Series
has a very good feedback in the market. And the new Touring, as I mentioned, will come in June
on the market, and this 5 Series Touring is, for example, a car which is very important for the UK
market. So, overall, we have a product momentum also for the UK, where I think we can remain,
in principle, optimistic.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd..
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate AffairsNext question, please.
Operator
We now go to the line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI at Evercore ISI. Please do go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
`Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group always takes a long-term approach. The, everyone. Two quick questions for me. Firstly, on the earnings guidance for this
year, only a couple of weeks back we all met and you've been guiding for somewhat slower start
to the year, and then stronger momentum into H2. Now, after you had a very strong start into the
year, it seems that you're guiding down a little bit to the rest of the year. So I just wonder what
has changed really or whether you were just surprised yourself how strong it went this year so far.
And secondly, as I understand, you're adjusting your residual value assumptions on a quarterly
basis. So could you give us some color what your current average residual value assumption is
across your portfolio that sits on your balance sheet and also whether you've made some
adjustments, some larger adjustments, in Q1 this year? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Arndt. Your question will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Arndt, you are absolutely right. As I said at the very beginning, we had a strong start into 2017, but
despite this strong performance in Q1, we believe that the political and the economic
environment really remains volatile. It's still unclear how the Brexit negotiations might impact the
business. We talked about the U.S. market. And as a result, we believe it's advisable to remain to
continuously monitor the development of our business, to monitor the key influencing factors of
our business, and to focus on a strong performance in Q2 and we discuss the rest. It's too early
to...
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Now would you... (41:16)
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
It's too early to adjust the guidance at this point in time.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
No, no, Nicolas, I understand that. But the question is more, do you think that the macro
environment for the auto industry has improved or worsened over the last one or two months?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Well, if you look at the April development in some of the major markets, and of course, this might
have been impacted by Easter being in the middle of April, but we've seen a negative trend in
the U.S. We've discussed the UK development. And in Germany another major market was, let's
say, a balanced development in the market as well. On the positive side, we continue to be
optimistic regarding China.So it's a mixture of different developments around the globe, and therefore, we believe that
thanks to our – and if you look into the details, you will see that our performance in those markets
is, I believe, strong. Why? Because we have a good product momentum and, in particular, with
the new models kicking in, we stay optimistic and we are confident to deliver in line with our
guidance.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And, Arndt, to add to this one, maybe take two or three examples. The one is in China we will
have the 1 Series Sedan and the 5 Series long wheel-base Gran Coupé completely available in
the second half of 2017. So we also always said in the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, half of 2017 we will have bigger launch
costs, but we are also investing heavily into the future. And we shouldn't underestimate that
investing into the digital business, yeah, the autonomous driving. We had yesterday the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, of
our 40 autonomous vehicles, which we will put on the road this year, being launched in California.
So we will have R&D spend as well in this year, and increasing launch costs in the second half. So
that's why it balances out, but we need to heavily invest into the future at `the `same time, we focus on being agile and flexible, so we can respond quickly to unexpected, we strive to remain a leader in new technologies and innovations, with a clear where
we need to use every operational chance in China or in other markets.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Arndt, your second question was regarding residual value used car price, the development. I think
we have to focus on the three major leasing markets, U.S., UK, and Germany. And in those
markets, as expected, we've seen slightly negative development; however, in line with our
expectations. We continue, as you know, to monitor those developments very, very closely, and
we view them every quarter. And as I said, we are, from today's perspective, in line with our
guidance. I think maybe one topic which is important to be mentioned, the penetration rate of
leasing contracts in our overall business has slightly gone down from 21.3% to 20.4%, which is
mainly driven by this development in the U.S. market.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
All right. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI. Next question, please.
Operator
We now go to `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG of HSBC. Please do go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yes, good afternoon and thanks for taking my questions. First of all, I want to come back again to
this diesel issue. I'm sorry for that. But you mentioned in your speech that diesel is necessary to
meet the CO2 targets in Europe in 2020, 2021. And you were giving us now the diesel shares for
2016 and Q1. I would be interested in your CO2, yeah, power train mix planning, what decline of
diesel do you expect until 2020 and how does that planned decline compare against the current
run rate?
Then the second question that I have is also more longer term. I listened yesterday to the
conference call of Tesla and they talk now about potentially 1 `million, benefiting from higher volumes and positive mix effects. This was an increase of 33% unit sales that they do as a
company when they launch the Model Y in late 2019, respectively 2020. And I just want to know
when you do your own planning for – on the long-term basis, how do you assess competition?Not particularly maybe Tesla. I know you don't want to talk about particular competitors. But do
you assume that there's a significant competitor coming up which could take market share from
you? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Horst. `Harald, please go ahead.?
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Okay. Horst, back to your question. First of all, I would start with a strategic view. We have a clear
target for the portion and the mix of electrified vehicles in our group sales level for 2025
between 15% to 25%, so roundabout every fifth car, for example, in the group being sold would
be then an electrified vehicle. If it's a purely battery electric vehicle or a plug-in hybrid, it's difficult
to forecast, because that remains very much also on the conditions and legal and regulatory
framework in the different countries. Take one example, the Netherlands had a high portion of
electrified vehicles. They took away by the 1st of January 2017 the subsidies they are giving to
plug-in hybrids. The results of this one, there was a reduction of 50% on the plug-in hybrid sales
figures for all companies.
So what I believe is, strategically you will see the electrified and electrification going on and
moving on forward, definitely in China and some other markets. What we will see is we have set
ourselves this target of the 15% to 25%, and we have set ourselves a target of `100,000 electrified vehicles. After the first quarter, we are well on track.,000
electrified vehicles this year, and we would like to ramp up. The portion for 2020 concerning what
do we need as a mix of diesel or electrified is also depending on what the mix looks like. I can't
give you a number for 2020, but the clear strategy is we need the diesels on the one side for
2020 CO2 targets, and we clearly have the priority on electrifying all brands and the portfolio to
ramp up.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Of course, it would be easier to work with – to get some more details and granularity. The
concern is always that the CO2 targets cannot be met, not only by you, but by the industry in
total, right?
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First of all, Horst, we clearly have said we are going to meet the 2020 targets. This is clearly our
target. We are on the right track on this one (49:07), but we need the diesel engines for this
target as well. And everything else I don't want to share, because it's also a little bit of a
competitive edge and knowledge if we tell more details what we would like to achieve. And in
the past if you look at us, we always met our targets in terms of CO2 or emission targets. We
even have fulfilled our commitments, and BMW was one of the companies who are looking – if
you look at the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, for example, we have seven years in a row
winning the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, prize. So sustainability and emission target meeting is part of our strategy
number one. That's very clear.Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay. (49:48).
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Good. Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is from the line of Michael Tyndall at Citigroup. Please do go ahead.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Hi there. It's `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. from Citi. Two questions, if I may. Can we go back to free cash flow,
please? If I look at the Automotive division and I look at cash flow from operations, there is a €1
billion inflow from other, up €600 `million, benefiting from higher volumes and positive mix effects. This was an increase of 33% year-on-year. First question, I guess, is what's in there?
But also when I look at it on the group level, it's completely erased, so I'm wondering where does
it go on the group level.
And then the second question overall is kind of a philosophical question. Your intra-group financial
assets now sit at over €14 billion, so roughly two-thirds of the cash that you have in the Auto
division. Is there a natural limit to how much of that cash you're going to sit within the group? And
can you just remind us again why it sits there and is it sitting with the Financial Services group?
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Let's start with free cash flow in the Automotive `segment, although it will still remain above the targeted minimum level of 18%. Our guidance. While the positive effect of plus – little
bit more than €1 billion is also due to, on one hand side, seasonal increase in personnel-related
liabilities, holiday pay, and some effects from liabilities resulting from deferred taxes.
`Second, electro-mobility. We are strengthening this important future technology at our home topic, natural limit of liquidity. Well, I think, Michael, if you look, we have Financial Services
business of plus/minus €`100,000 electrified vehicles. After the first quarter, we are well on track. billion to be refinanced. And BMW Group has one of the strongest
ratings in the Automotive sector, the best of all European manufacturers, and this is also due to
the fact that we have cash, we have cash and we are, from this perspective, in a strong position.
So this is definitely part of our business model to keep a high cash position in order to be able to
refinance our Financial Services business at best possible interest rates.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Can I just jump back to the other question? I'm trying to understand why is it eliminated at the
group level? I can understand what you're saying in terms of bonus accruals and DTAs, but I'm
just wondering why at the group level it's basically a net zero.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Well, this is due to intra-group receivable/liability payment and other tax effects.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `Okay. Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Michael Tyndall. So I think it is eight minutes to 3:00. We have time
for two more questions. Next question, please.
Operator
The penultimate question then will be over to the line of `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG at Deutsche Bank. Please
go ahead, Tim.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yes, thank you very much for taking my questions. I limit it to one then. `Harald, please go ahead., it feels like
regulatorily you're somewhat alone currently. You still don't really know what the 2025 regulation
will be like in Euro. China is still a bit uncertain. There this diesel discussion potential bans in
Stuttgart and so on and so forth. When do you believe you will have more clarity on the longer-
term regulatory framework in your major markets? And somewhat related to that, Continental
told us that they expect that the last generation of combustion engines in Europe will be
launched by 2023. Would you agree to that? And do you believe that may be a time, once that is
developed, that you can start spending less R&D? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Tim. I think that's the right question for the Chairman. `Harald, please go ahead., please go
ahead.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First, we start, Tim, with a regulation on 2025. Beyond 2030 in Europe, this is going to be clarified
in maybe the last quarter this year, beginning of 2018. That's the discussion we have of the
European level. That's why Brussels will come out with proposals by the end of the year or
beginning of next year.
For China, as you know, probably the discussion about what comes with which portion of
electrified vehicle you need to have in the mix for which year is maybe in the next weeks and
months. It takes some more time, so we are in discussion there as well. And this is going to
continue. And, as you know, the U.S. is also in discussion. So I believe this will be part of our
business, that this is ongoing discussions and we have clear strategies in place to react. That's
why the electrification is a clear priority. That's why we do the MINI emission-free (55:01) electric
vehicle, for example, because for urban mobility, this is definitely a good lever to achieve CO2
and emission targets. That's why we have decided the electrified X3.
The second one is, what our answer is, and I mentioned that in my speech, we need to be very
flexible. That's why we have now flexible architectures for the vehicles where we can mix
between a petrol engine on the one side and an electrified vehicle. So we will have flexible
`production, we can rely on a highly-efficient global network of 31 locations in 14 countries. This systems for the vehicle, whether it's a battery electric vehicle, a plug-in hybrid, or a
combustion engine. We have the same flexible, as Kristina was asking, on the petrol and diesel
side on the engine side. So my clear answer to this one, you need, with that volatility and that
uncertainty, what comes in which country at which time. The only answer is flexibility in your
manufacturing and design processes.Thank you. And would you agree to the Continental statement when it comes to the internal
combustion engine platforms in Europe?
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Last combustion engine in Europe somewhere, no, I disagree. And we can bet a good bottle of
wine, if you wish, on this one. But I disagree on this one. We will see the diesel and the petrol
engines going to be continued after 2023, I'm sure.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Tim. Last question, please.
Operator
Okay. Well, the ultimate question then is from the line of Philippe Houchois at Jefferies. Please go
ahead, Philippe, your line is open.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yes, thank you. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group always takes a long-term approach. The. A couple for me. Mr. Krüger, I hear what you said about diesel
and I fully agree. My question there is you – I think so for you are the only major CEO of a car
company has come out batting for diesel. And what's your view in general about the risk that the
industry is losing the PR battle on diesel, that you may have the right point, but it's going to be
very hard to defend diesel against public opinion, consumers and regulators, if there isn't more
of a collective effort on the part of the industry. And therefore, what is happening – you may not
be able to tell us what's happening behind the scenes, but do you think the industry will come
together and act potentially to make sure that diesel continues? Because we all know the
benefits, but the PR battle is being lost, as I said.
And the other question I have for Mr. Peter is about your two major competitors in Q1 had to
recapitalize their Financial Services business again. We can't see from your disclosure, where you
may have done the same thing. I don't think so. On my simulation, you're the most capable of
self-funding or retained earnings funding the growth of your Financial Services, but I just wanted
to ask if it's clear that you have not had to add capital to your Financial Services business. Thank
you.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Philippe. We'll start with `Harald, please go ahead., and then Nicolas.
A - ``Harald, please go ahead. Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Philippe, I may be a strong voice, but not the only one for the diesel engine. As you maybe have
heard, that Matthias Müller just announced as well that he sees for the VW Group also diesel as
part of the solution or not as the problem. And in Europe, in my view – and I am not the only one
who is convinced on this one. For sure, if you look at the second perspective, and I think this is
important, what happens really, what the customer is doing, the one thing is what do we have
headlines in the public and what do the one or the other journalist is speaking about or writing
articles about.What I mentioned before, so far – I mean, you never know, but so far we have never seen a
significant change in our customer demands. I was even surprised that we saw an order intake
increase on diesel engines in March. So the customer is still somebody who is very careful about
what are the costs of driving, what are the total costs of owning a car, and what fuel efficiency he
has or she has. And that's why the customer has so far decided still to continue also to buy
diesels and lease the diesels. Yeah?
And the other portion is what is our reaction strategy or strategy forward. In the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter, we
sold 20,000 electrified vehicles. We are clearly on track for the target of `100,000 electrified vehicles. After the first quarter, we are well on track.,000. This is an
increase by more than 50% compared to the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter of 2016. So we are clearly focusing on
ramping up and selling more electrified vehicles to be on the safe side for the 2020 target. So
you need to do both, but we are clearly aggressive on ramping up electro-mobility.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Well, Philippe, if you look at the – `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, of all, from a group perspective, at our equity position,
equity grew by approximately €2.2 billion since December 31 of last year. If we now have a closer
look at the different `segment, although it will still remain above the targeted minimum level of 18%. Our guidances, in the Automotive `segment, although it will still remain above the targeted minimum level of 18%. Our guidance this resulted in an increase of the
equity ratio from 41.3% to 41.9%, and on the Financial Services side an increase of the equity ratio
from 8%, exactly 8% to 8.4% at the end of the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter. On group level, equity ratio slightly
increased from 25.1% to 25.9%.
So if we look a little bit deeper into Financial Services, slightly up equity level. We believe
definitely we have a very robust equity base. And, of course, we comply with all regulatory
frameworks and capital requirements around the globe. It might be required in the course of 2017
to increase capital in some Financial Services entities, in particular in Asia, as the business is
growing very fast.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, `Harald, please go ahead.. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for, Nicolas. I think we are on time. It is
3:00. `Ladies and gentlemen, the `first, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the current financial year. After the first quarter, quarter of 2017 shows that the BMW Group is well on track. All, thank you for joining us today and we wish you a pleasant day. Bye-
bye and thank you very much.