Q1 2019 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is your Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Ms. Dochi from Toyota, who will moderate today's conference.
`Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Hello, everyone, and welcome to the financial results conference call of Toyota Motor
Corporation for the first quarter of the fiscal year to March 2019.
I'm `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations from Investor Relations Group of the Accounting Division. Today, we are joined by
our presenter, Mr. `Kenta Kon, Managing Officer, General Manager of Accounting Division, Managing Officer and Deputy Chief Officer of the Accounting
Group, who will be assisted by our interpreter Ms. Midori Ota. (1:20)
We would like to proceed as follows. First, Mr. Kon will discuss the Q1 earnings results and the full-
year forecast over the next 10 to 15 minutes. We will then move on to the Q&A session, which will
be conducted through consecutive interpretation.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect the company's
plans and expectations. And its actual results may be materially different. A complete cautionary
statement concerning forward-looking statements is included in page 2 of today's presentation
slides, and the one concerning insider trading is included in page 3.
Our presentation slides, including both statements, can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages. Now without further saying, I'd like to hand over to Mr. Kon.
`Kenta Kon, Managing Officer, General Manager of Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Kenta Kon, Managing Officer, General Manager of Accounting Division. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the first quarter of the financial year ending March 2019.
Let me start with slide 5. Compared with the first quarter of the previous fiscal year, consolidated
vehicle sales increased by 21,000 units to 2,236,000 units. This was a result of solid sales in
North America, Europe, and Asia.
Please see slide 6. Consolidated financial results for the first quarter were net revenue of
¥7.362.7 trillion, operating income of ¥682.6 billion, pre-tax income of ¥813.8 billion, and netincome of ¥657.3 billion.
Now I would like to hand the rest of this presentation to Ms. Midori Ota, (3:56) our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
First, the net effect of foreign exchange rate was zero, mainly due to a negative transactional
impact of foreign exchange rates resulting from a ¥2 appreciation against the dollar and other
positive factors.
Secondly, cost reduction efforts increased operating income by ¥15 billion as the impact of the
cost reduction efforts exceeded the increase in raw material costs.
Thirdly, marketing activities increased operating income by ¥45 billion due to improved vehicle
sales and product mix in North America, Europe, and Asia.
Finally, including the impact of the reduction efforts, expenses decreased by ¥60 billion, due to a
decrease in quality assurance costs, which represented a significant portion of our expectation
for the full fiscal year.
As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rates, swap valuation gains and
losses, and other factors, operating income improved by ¥120 billion year on year.
Next, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region, going from the left-hand
side to the right-hand side.
And in Japan, vehicle sales decreased by 34,000 units year on year to 510,000 units, due to the
diminished effects of new models. Operating income was up ¥76.2 billion year on year to ¥396.1
billion, mainly due to cost reduction efforts and an increase in export vehicle sales as well as a
reduction in expenses.
In North America, vehicle sales were up 23,000 units year on year to 746,000 units, driven by
truck and SUV models such as the Tacoma and Highlander. Operating income was ¥78.3 billion,
down ¥10.4 billion compared with the first quarter of the previous fiscal year. This was largely a
result of increased sales incentives. However, we are now able to control incentives more
adequately by efficiently allocating them to key models. We will continue our effort in this regard.
In Europe, vehicle sales grew by 13,000 units year on year to 253,000 units, driven by such
models as the CHR Hybrid vehicle. Operating income was up ¥2.6 billion to ¥23.1 billion. This was
mainly a result of a reduction in expenses.
In Asia, vehicle sales were up 31,000 units year on year to 394,000 units on the back of solid
sales in Thailand, India, and China. Operating income was up ¥39.3 billion year on year to ¥142.2
billion as a result of cost reduction efforts in addition to marketing efforts.
In other regions, overall vehicle sales were down 12,000 units year on year to 333,000 units, due
to decreased sales in the Middle East. Operating income increased by ¥1.5 billion year on year to
¥41 billion. This was primarily due to marketing efforts, including price improvements and the
reduction in expenses.
Operating income excluding swap valuation gains and losses for the first quarter was up ¥7.1
billion year on year to ¥82.2 billion. This was mainly due to an increase in the lending balance and
the decrease in costs related to loan losses and residual value losses.First, with regard to our consolidated vehicle sales. We have reduced our initial forecast by
50,000 units to 8.9 million units. By region, vehicle sales are expected to increase in Europe, in
Asia, but are likely to decrease in North America and other regions.
As described at the bottom of this page, we maintain our forecast of retail vehicle sales at 10.5
million units. The difference between the consolidated and retail vehicle sales is mainly due to an
increase in anticipated retail sales in China.
We have adopted forex rate assumptions for July onwards of ¥105 per dollar, ¥125 per euro,
which makes our full year assumptions ¥106 per dollar and ¥126 per euro.
Our forecast for full year consolidated financial performance remained unchanged, net revenue
of ¥29 trillion, operating income of ¥2.300 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥2.450 trillion, and net
income of ¥2.120 trillion.
Firstly, the positive effect of forex rates will be ¥5 billion. This is due to the revision of forex rate
assumptions and effect of the fiscal year-end balance of provisions in foreign currencies.
Secondly, we anticipate there will be a ¥70 billion negative impact relating to cost reduction
efforts. This is due to a significant increase in raw material costs and inflation in Argentina, despite
the ongoing cost reduction activities.
Thirdly, we estimate that the effect of marketing activities will be ¥110 billion due to price
improvement efforts in response to increasing raw material costs and ongoing inflation as well as
the disciplined use of sales incentives in North America.
Finally, expenses are expected to have increased by ¥40 billion, largely as a result of
reclassification of a factor from expenses to the effects of forex, following verification of our
accounting treatment.
As for the fixed cost reduction activities, we are steadily making progress towards achieving our
challenge level target, which we are determined to achieve at the end of this fiscal year through
further efforts across regions. As a consequence, we maintain our initial operating income
forecast at ¥2.300 trillion. In order to achieve this, we will further reinforce profit improvement
activities across the company.
Compared year on year, we anticipate a ¥99.8 billion decrease in operating income. Excluding the
overall impact of forex rate and swap valuation gains and losses, operating income is expected
to be up ¥130 billion year on year, which remains the same from the initial forecast.
Next, I would like to explain activities for enhancing our competitiveness. The first area involves
cost reduction efforts and Toyota production system. We are pursuing the reduction of total costs
and operational efficiency improvement in administrative and technical divisions.
The second area is concerning making of ever better cars. In the press conference today,
Executive Vice President Moritaka Yoshida explained our activities from this perspective. Please
see the presentation replay, which has been posted on our website.
The third area concerns investment in future technologies. In order to enhance our
competitiveness in the future society of mobility, we are accelerating collaboration with other
companies and without committing capital investment, while allocating more resources to
electrification, autonomous driving, and connectivity.The fourth area is about strengthening the overall competitiveness of the Toyota group by
promoting collaboration within the group further and maximizing utilization of each group
company strength.
Furthermore, as a worldwide partner of the Olympic and Paralympic Games at the Tokyo Olympic
and Paralympic Games in 2020, we envisage to showcase mobility for all, in which every person
can move freely by providing mobility solutions, which will go beyond the supplying vehicles in
conventional way.
We plan to provide the e-Palette, a battery electric vehicle designed for MaaS, the Mirai fuel cell
vehicle, and the Sora Fuel Cell Bus. And to demonstrate a Level 4 equivalent automated driving
technology in designated area. Thus, we would like to boost enthusiasm in everyone for the
Olympic and Paralympic Games.
So this concludes the presentation on the financial results for the first quarter ending March 2019.
Thank you for your attention.
`Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Mr. Kon and Ms. Ota. (13:45) Now let's move on to the Q&A session.
You're most welcome to ask questions at any time and stay anonymous if you wish. We would
appreciate it if you could limit your questions to two at a time, so questions can be taken widely
from participants.
Our operator will now explain how to connect your line to the presenter.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Ms. Dochi. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning. Good evening. This is `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. My first question is in
reference to raw materials. Most other automakers in this earnings season have been talking
about an increasing headwind, and we've been hearing that from suppliers. You talked about it
briefly in your presentation.
But what do you see as the incremental risks for you as an automaker? And are you able to share
and push down some of that rising raw material risk to your suppliers?
A - Operator
[Foreign Language] (16:13 – 16:47)
[Foreign Language] (16:54 – 17:09)
Thank you for the question. With regard to the question about the raw material costs and so forth
and its impact, during the first quarter, there would be around ¥50 billion of negative impact by
that.
[Foreign Language] (17:26 – 17:32)[Foreign Language] (17:41 – 17:52)
As you are aware that this is due to the fact that the different types of the raw material prices are
going up, for example, the crude oil as well as aluminum and resin and so forth.
[Foreign Language] (18:06 – 18:17)
On the other hand, during this same period in other – the Q1, we have reduced the cost through
our efforts by ¥65 billion. So by netting that, we'll be increasing the raw material cost. We have
made about ¥15 billion worth of positive net impact.
[Foreign Language] (18:40 – 18:53)
Throughout the fiscal year, we are making about ¥320 billion of the cost reduction efforts.
Therefore, if then you net it against the increasing the raw material cost, we still make ¥60 billion
worth of a positive impact.
[Foreign Language] (19:13 – 19:34)
However, we are seeing this trend of the escalating cost of prices of the raw materials. And in
order to absorb that, we need to make a further effort to further improve or reduce the cost.
And so that we'd like to minimize the usage of the raw material and then also to implement VA
and (20:02) to optimize and make the design change, which I think seems to be the best solution
to cope with this problem.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
If I could follow up. In the short run, the offset of $320 billion, is that a result of purely internal
efforts? Or does that include increased cost sharing with supplier partners?
A - Operator
[Foreign Language] (20:28 – 20:49)
[Foreign Language] (20:54 – 21:12)
Well, that cost reduction effort cannot be implemented in-house by Toyota stand-alone at all.
Therefore, we would like to work together closely with the suppliers to further reduce the costs
together. And then the benefit we achieve together will be shared by the suppliers and Toyota.
[Foreign Language] (21:34 – 21:57)
So as the market – the price – market price of those raw materials going up, that we are not just
passing it to the relevant parties like dealers or whatever. But rather that we would like to solve
this problem by working closely with the suppliers to together reduce the cost, so that the saving
we make can be shared by all of us.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And a second question, and thank you very much for that. The second question, when we look at
the other presentation that you guys are giving today, there's some interesting data and strategy.
And it highlights one of the big questions that's burgeoning or just beginning in the industry right
now, upscale versus flexibility.And I'm just curious over time for Toyota and for the industry, do you think volume scale is
absolutely critical to long term success? Or could Toyota and the industry potentially operate as
efficiently or more efficiently at smaller scale with the increased flexibility you're highlighting in
today's presentation?
A - Operator
[Foreign Language] (23:19 – 24:14)
[Foreign Language] (24:20 – 24:34)
Thank you very much for your question. I think the question you have asked was related to the
earlier – the presentation by our Executive Vice President, Mr. Yoshida, on the – our policy and our
mission of trying to make ever better cars.
[Foreign Language] (24:57 – 25:10)
Our total sales volume is so huge now that our consolidate sale is under 8.9 million and then the –
including the – our retail sales at the total is the 10.5 million units.
[Foreign Language] (25:28 – 25:51)
So we have grown from the conventional small scale activity to this current larger scale activity.
And that makes it difficult to continue to do the previous way of set up, for example, R&D as well
as the production engineering and development and sales as well.
In other words, we used to have this sort of big chunk or cluster of the – which consisted of the
function-based activities.
[Foreign Language] (26:25 – 26:44)
Taking that change into account that we have started to implement this in-house company
system, which is almost like a virtual company system within the TMC. So rather than looking at
the entire Toyota, TMC, that each company will look at each group and models of the vehicles
that are relevant to that company.
[Foreign Language] (27:11 – 27:41)
So the key word is expediting and speeding up our operations and decision making. In other
words, the decision making should be expedited in development as well as production
engineering developments all have to be speeded up as well. So we will have a higher efficiency.
And so at this moment, I think the more suitable asset to us is not just pursue the scale volume
but rather to try to focus on smaller and expedited operation, which seems to be appropriate for
the time being to manage.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you very much.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you for the good questions, John. Let's move on. And the next questions will be coming
from London. Over to you.Q - Operator
Hi. Thanks for the opportunity. My first question is on slide 13, where we look at the change in the
forecast for the full year, we can see a big change in marketing efforts. But most of that comes
from the other section with the sales costs, et cetera, where it was plus ¥80 billion. I wonder if
you could tell me what the nature of that change was? And also why it's changed so much so
early in the year, please?
[Foreign Language] (29:04 – 29:34)
[Foreign Language] (29:37 – 29:53)
Thank you for the question. Let me try to respond. This is ¥80 billion that is referred to here, that
the sales price will be revised, which will give us the – above this scale of the positive impact.
[Foreign Language] (30:12 – 30:20)
One of the initiatives is in North America in order to improve its profitability. So in order to do that,
the price has been improved or revised.
[Foreign Language] (30:32 – 30:44)
Another factor is the rapidly advancing inflation in Argentina. And to cope with that and to catch
up with that, we have raised the prices.
[Foreign Language] (30:59 – 31:12)
So these figures mostly consist of this price revision in North America by ¥20 billion, and in
Argentina to catch up with inflation, ¥45 billion the revision of the price.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Do you have any other questions?
Q - Operator
Yes, sorry, I do. I have one more. Actually on slide 7, you can see under the expenses item under
labor cost appreciation R&D, there's a plus ¥70 billion from the expenses. I wondered if you could
give me a bit more detail on that? And I think a lot of it is product recall changes. I wonder if you
could just give us a lot more detail on that, please?
[Foreign Language] (31:58 – 32:20)
[Foreign Language] (32:23 – 32:36)
Thank you for the question. As to the page 7, the expenses explained in this page, about ¥70
billion, a positive figure. And so let me give you the details.
[Foreign Language] (32:52 – 32:58)
Of this ¥70 billion, first, the quality-related costs have been reduced by ¥75 billion.
[Foreign Language] (33:09 – 33:14)
The other impacts are rather negligible, so I would skip.A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. I'd like to take the next one.
Q - Operator
Very clear. Thank you.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, John. (33:25) I'd like to take the next one also from London. Over to you.
Q - Operator
Yes. Hello. Thanks for taking this call. I wonder if you could talk through your thinking behind your
decision to dispose of your stake in Isuzu? And also does this herald a change in Toyota's capital
and alliance policy? And also what implications might it have for the Toyota group structure
overall, if any?
[Foreign Language] (34:09 – 34:36)
[Foreign Language] (34:39 – 34:53)
Thank you for the question. We have not made any special change to our thought with regard to
capital, the partnership, or relationship.
[Foreign Language] (35:07 – 35:26)
Well, we have became the equity owner of the – holder of the capital of the Isuzu. And we've
been trying to collaborate it and identify some of the projects for collaboration.
However in 2009, we had to stop the development project of the diesel engine. And then after
that, we could not identify other large-scale collaboration projects and programs together.
[Foreign Language] (36:00 – 36:24)
Therefore, the equity relationship with Isuzu and the actual collaboration state seem to deviate
from each other. In other words, there was a gap.
So we decided to sell our shares. And however, that doesn't mean that we would not consider
the future collaboration potential, because we will continue to seek ways to collaborate with Isuzu
in the future.
And so we have not changed our mind at all as to the future potential of collaboration and
cooperation with Isuzu, and we are open to that.
Thank you.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Do you have another question, Sarah? (37:07)
Q - Operator
No. That's it. Thank you.A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
I had two questions. First, you talked about the quality related savings year over year being ¥75
billion in the first quarter. What is the assumption for the full year? That's the first question.
And the second question is about the – your volumes in Japan, which were down a fair amount in
the first quarter. Could you talk about what's going on to your business in Japan? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (38:57 – 39:24)
[Foreign Language] (39:27 – 39:40)
As to your first question, throughout the fiscal year we expect around ¥170 billion worth of savings
of the quality related expenses.
[Foreign Language] (39:58 – 40:33)
To respond to the next question of yours, that this – the why the sales volume in Japan domestic
market has declined. The reason is that for example in the previous year, fiscal year, the new
models launched did quite well, for example, CHR and the Prius PHV as well as Daihatsu Move,
which is a minicar.
And that those cars actually pushed up the sales quite well. But that impact by those new launch
has been almost exhausted. And that is one of the reason for this first quarter's performance.
[Foreign Language] (41:22 – 41:38)
However, in Japan this year and in June for example, new vehicles models were launched, Crown
and Corolla hatchback and so forth. So we would like to continue to launch attractive, appealing
new products in order to boost our sales in the Japanese market.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Shall I take another question from that – sorry. Shall I take a question from the next
one?
Q - Operator
Hello? Can you hear me?
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Yes, we can. Go on.
Q - Operator
Thank you for taking my questions. Just to follow up on the news of the disposal of the Isuzu
stake. Please, does that indicate that you're reviewing all of your holdings to work out whether
the collaboration is material?And then I think most shareholders would agree that the company does not need to add to its
net liquidity. So can we expect that that will be a return to shareholders? Or is there a plan to use
that to adjust the group structure and change some of the relationships with the other group
companies? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (43:17 – 44:06)
[Foreign Language] (44:13 – 45:06)
Well, about our collaboration with the different companies and whether we are reviewing and
then checking whether there's a material in-depth collaboration or not.
Well, our policy has been always the same that we invest in and hold equity of the companies
with whom we have the business collaboration relationship or business relationship.
And then we – our policy was and has been that we do not share, acquire the equity of the
companies with whom we have no business relationship. So we will continue to uphold this policy
and then always scrutinize the type of material relationship and collaboration we have with those
relevant companies.
[Foreign Language] (46:01 – 46:35)
So we and – re-pricing and restructuring our – for example, the intra-Toyota group relationship
and the business division of labor in a way. For example, our electric, the component business
and so forth, which will be transferred from Toyota itself to Denso in order to further enhance our
competitive edge.
And also our African sales activity, marketing activity, and so on, will be transferred from Toyota
itself to Toyota Tsusho in order to further enhance our sales activity in Africa.
So to have the overall competitive edge strengthened on behalf of the Toyota group, we will
constantly check our collaboration amongst the Toyota group of companies.
[Foreign Language] (47:31 – 48:02)
And as to the return policy to the shareholders, that we will consider the dividend payout policy
as well as this possible – the share buyback policies by looking at the optimal timing and so forth.
And the payout ratio is 30%. And then we would like to have a stable and continuous return to
the shareholders.
And as to the share buyback policy, we would like to enhance this capital utilization efficiency, and
by looking at the optimal timing, we would like to implement dynamically the necessary buyback.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. I'd like to take the final question. Over to you.
Q - Operator
Hi. Could I start with the – my first question is on affiliate income. And it's – why did the China
profits fall when we saw unit sales growth? And also could you break down – you estimate ¥440
billion of affiliate income for the full year. I wondered if you could break that down between the
three regions, please?
[Foreign Language] (49:21 – 49:49)[Foreign Language] (49:59 – 50:25)
Well, the equity base – the figure of this profit of total, the ¥440 billion, the area breakdown is as
follows, Japan ¥320 billion, in China ¥91 billion, and other regions ¥32 billion.
[Foreign Language] (51:00 – 51:30)
In the Q1 in China, this time is a revenue decline. The reason is mostly due to the fact that the
model mix, the type mix has been changed. For example, the Highlander and Land Cruiser Prado
declined.
Thank you. And just my final question. In the U.S., it looks like you got off to quite a good start with
volumes up, et cetera. So why cut your volume target for the year in the U.S. quite a lot?
[Foreign Language] (52:06 – 52:20)
[Foreign Language] (52:26 – 52:57)
Well, throughout this fiscal year, we are forecasting that the sales units will be decreased by
about 50,000 units.
And inherently and originally, even from the beginning, we were expecting that during the latter
part of this fiscal year, there would be the model change and switch to a new model, which would
imply that we will reduce the production, the units as well as the wholesale, the transaction units.
[Foreign Language] (53:33 – 53:50)
However, this forecast did not take into account any impact by or potential impact by the trade
relation. But rather we took into account this possible increase of the interest rate hike in the U.S.
as well as other possible uncertainty in the situation.
And so, therefore, to make our forecast of the future, we decided to be cautious side.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - Operator
Very clear. Thank you.
A - `Yoko Dochi, Head of Investor Relations `
As there are no more questions in the queue, I'd like to wrap up today's conference call. Thank
you very much for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions or require more information after this call, please contact our
IR representatives for North America and Europe, whose contact details are provided in the
invitations that you received.
Now from all of us gathered in Tokyo and the near record heat wave, goodbye, and have a nice
rest of the day.