Q3 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon, Europe, and good morning to the U.S. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to
AstraZeneca's Year-to-Date and Q3 2018 Results. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to
read the Safe Harbor statement. The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make
forward-looking statements with respect to the operations and financial performance of
AstraZeneca.
Although we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very
nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and may be influenced by
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the
slide deck that accompanies this presentation and webcast.
I will now hand the conference over to Chief Executive Officer, `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, everyone. It's `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director here. Welcome to our year to date and third quarter conference
call and our webcast for investors and analysts. We have people on the phone and the webcast.
The presentation as always is available on astrazeneca.com for you to download.So please turn to slide 2. This is the usual Safe Harbor statement. As a reminder, today we'll be
making comments on our financial performance using core reporting metrics and at constant
exchange rate, CER, which are both non-GAAP measures. All numbers will refer to million U.S.
dollars and growth rates will be at CER and for the year to date end of September period of 2018
unless otherwise stated.
Please turn to slide 3. We plan to spend about 45 minutes on the presentation, and then we'll
keep time for Q&A. There's also an option to ask questions online as part of the webcast. As we
would like to provide everyone with an opportunity to ask questions, and as a reminder, please
limit yourselves to one question each in the first run. Thank you very much for that.
Today, I'm joined as always by Dave Fredrickson, our EVP of Oncology; Marc Mallon, our EVP of
Global Products and Portfolio Strategy, Medical `Affairs, and Corporate Affairs, and Corporate `Affairs, and Corporate Affairs; `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, our
Chief Financial Officer; and `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development our EVP of Global Medicines Development and our Chief
Medical Officer.
Please turn to slide 4. This is the agenda and that these are the topics we plan to cover today. In
addition, Sean will spend a little bit more time on the year-end update on the late-stage pipeline
and a look forward to 2019 and 2020, where our pipeline news flow remains busy and very
important.
Turn to slide 5. I'm really pleased to report that AstraZeneca returned to sustainable growth in
Q3 and cumulatively year to date. This is really a major milestone for us, for the entire
management team, for the company as a whole, and for every one of our colleague around the
world, making this possible by their dedicated work for patients.
Our main therapy area of Oncology, New CVRM, and the main therapy area of Respiratory
combined grew by 19% year to date and 27% in the third quarter. Medicines outside our focus
continue to decline, supporting the ongoing pipeline and now also topline driven transformation.
Please turn to slide 6. Importantly beyond the fast growth, accelerating growth of the new
products, you can see that the older products that have been declining are becoming smaller.
Over the past few years we have reduced the contribution from older medicines in decline and
off-patent. But we've increased, of course, the exposure to high-growth medicines in our therapy
areas for the future.
Oncology, New CVRM, and Respiratory combined now make up more than 70% of the total sales.
The other medicines remain relatively stable in the emerging market. And the other medicines
outside the emerging markets are declining. But now they make up only 15% of our total sales,
and they're starting to bottom out.
Unlike in the past, the new medicines in our three main key areas are now more than able to
compensate. And we see sustainable growth in the total portfolio going forward. On top of it, of
course, the new products are gaining momentum as we launch in more markets and with more
indications.
I will now cover the details of the quarter and the reason for our optimism. Please turn to slide 7. If
you look at the details, our sales increased by 2% and by 9% in the quarter, 2% year to date. We
saw strong performance by the new medicines, that are up 76%, and China. And it is less offset
now as I said earlier by divestments and by generics, the adverse impact is more limited.
Total revenue declined by 8%, reflecting lower externalization come in the third quarter. On
externalization, we expect the fourth quarter to improve. As a reminder, some new deals mayalso come as other operating income.
So the new medicines that are important to our future added more than $1.8 billion in incremental
sales versus the year-to-date period last year, and they grew by 76%. Oncology was up 44% with
Lynparza, Tagrisso, and Imfinzi all performing very well.
New CVRM was up by 12% with Brilinta up 18% and Farxiga up 32%.
Respiratory was up by 2%, also a return to growth. Symbicort remains in a competitive
environment. We experienced growth in volume, but negative price pressures. However, Fasenra
and Pulmicort are now doing extremely well, in particular Fasenra. We'll cover that later. It's doing
incredibly well.
Finally, the emerging markets continued with a strong growth, driven by China, which is up 27%
year to date and 32% in the quarter.
Core EPS achieve $1.88 year to date, in line with our progression this year and the level of
externalization. And our guidance is on track for the year.
Please turn to slide 8. We continue to make progress with our pipeline, which remains as
important as ever to drive our sales growth in the future.
There were a number of milestones for Lynparza, including the first approval in China and also
another milestone, important one, was the presentation of the first-line ovarian results in BRCA
mutant. Approvals were also achieved for Tagrisso in Japan, Imfinzi in the EU, Lumoxiti in the U.S.
Lumoxiti, which is treating a rare disease, later enter a collaboration within Innate. The DECLARE
trial with Farxiga delivered positive data and met the primary endpoint of a reduced
cardiovascular risk on the composite endpoint of hospitalization for heart failure or cardiovascular
death.
In Respiratory, we also achieved a number of milestones, including the first submission for our
closed triple-inhalation medicines, PT010 for COPD, and also a number of other milestones for
Symbicort, Duaklir, and Bevespi.
So in many ways our Respiratory business has also moved up a gear. Unfortunately, and this is the
kind of business we're in, sometimes we experience setbacks. Anifrolumab didn't make the
primary endpoint in systemic lupus. It is disappointing for patients. It is disappointing for us of
course, but that is what we do. We take calculated risks on a variety of products in our pipeline.
If we turn to slide 9. When we set out the new strategy a few years back, not everyone believed
that we could return to growth. Hopefully with today's result, it's clear that we've achieved an
important inflection point.
If you look at the graph here on the left-hand side, we've been really in sales decline since 2012.
And in fact, I'm often reminded that we've been in sales decline since 2010, driven by the final
expiries of very large products, Crestor, Nexium, and Seroquel and a few others.
And for the first time now we experienced a very strong quarter, as you can see here. So it is
clearly an important inflection point for the company. In the coming quarters and the years we'll
make it sustainable. So we now are back to growth. And we have certainly, clearly a long runway in
term of growth over the next few years.
As we said in July, sales growth this year would be weighted towards the second half of the year,
so more growth in the third quarter. There would be a little bit less in the fourth quarter, becausewe will be comparing the fourth quarter to a very tough fourth quarter last year, where we had a
couple of one-offs, gross-to-net adjustments in Q4 2017. So a bit of a tougher comparison in Q4.
But with 9% sales growth in the third quarter and 2% year to date, we are completely on track
with the guidance for low single digit growth rate in sales for the full year.
Please turn to slide 10. If we go one step deeper and we look at the individual medicines, it is
really nice to see that the performance of these new products, which in total added more than
$1.8 billion in incremental sales versus last year and collectively grew by 76%.
Tagrisso as before is the main contributor. And it's important to point out here that on a run-rate
basis, Tagrisso is now a $2 billion product, growing rapidly.
Followed by Imfinzi. And here I will say that Imfinzi is reaching the stage where it will be, on a run-
rate basis, a $1 billion product. So very fast ramp-up.
Farxiga is growing very nicely. Lynparza is doing well. Fasenra is doing well. Brilinta continues to
grow. So really pleasing sales development for our new medicines. And we are expecting further
growth over the coming quarters and years.
So if you turn to slide 11, looking at product sales across our main therapy areas. Again, we are
back to growth, including in Respiratory. Let me share a few highlights here.
Oncology, surpassing $1.5 billion in the quarter, grew 44%. Probably the fastest growing
diversified Oncology franchise of any company at the moment and making up close to one-third
of AstraZeneca.
New CVRM is currently made up of Brilinta, diabetes, and Lokelma and in the future roxadustat.
Collectively this product grew – products grew by 12% to now more than $1 billion in the quarter.
Respiratory was up by 2%, but grew by 5% in the quarter. Growth of course is impacted
negatively by the price pressure on Symbicort. But Fasenra and Pulmicort were now more than
able to offset that. We continue to be very pleased by the market uptake of Fasenra and the
ongoing launch. We'll talk more about that a little later.
Other medicines were down by 23%, reflecting the loss of exclusivity for Crestor in the EU and
Japan, plus the effect of divestment. This line will remain in some decline, as we focus our efforts
on the main therapy areas. But the impact of the decline here will become more and more
manageable moving forward.
And finally and importantly, the Emerging Markets delivered a very, very strong performance with
12% growth, China growing 27%, and in particular, China growing 32% in the quarter to almost $1
billion in the quarter three. So very, very strong performance in China.
Before I hand over to Dave, my sincere thanks to every colleague in AstraZeneca, who is working
very hard to realize this inflection point in sales and the return to growth and the benefit we bring
to patients in need all over the world.
Over to you, Dave, for the Oncology review.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Great. Thanks, Pascal. I want to take an opportunity to update you on performance of our new
generation of medicines. We'll start with Oncology. And then I'll hand it over to `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical, who'llWe could turn to slide 13. We're really happy to announce that total Oncology is now up to 28% of
our total product sales. And as Pascal mentioned, it's now growing at 44%. The four new
medicines delivered $1.2 billion in incremental sales versus the same period of 2017. And that was
with continued growth coming from Lynparza, while also Tagrisso and Imfinzi continued their
launches in their new indications in first-line EGFR mutated non-small cell lung cancer and
unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung cancer, respectively.
We continue to see encouraging uptake of Calquence in the smaller mantle cell lymphoma
indication as we prepare for that larger chronic lymphocytic leukemia indication with pivotal Phase
III readouts coming next year. As for our legacy business, which I won't talk more about after this
slide, Faslodex trajectory has maintained, as the expanded labels and combinations with CDK4/6
inhibitors start to take effect.
If we could turn now to slide 14. On Lynparza, we saw ongoing progress with sales of $438 million
in the year with growth across all of our regions, as we continue to roll out the broader label in
ovarian cancer and the breast indication in the U.S. and in Japan.
In the U.S., sales were $233 million for the year, where Lynparza continues to the leading medicine
in the PARP inhibitor class as measured by total prescription volumes in this very competitive
market.
Quarter on quarter, sequential sales were impacted by inventory in the U.S., as we withdrew
capsules from the market. But the underlying demand was strong with over 10% growth.
Increase in demand came from the all-comers label in second-line ovarian cancer as well as from
the emerging breast cancer indication. And as you would expect, we see the majority of use in
ovarian with emerging use within breast cancer.
Within Europe, sales were robust at $137 million year to date, up 37% versus the prior year,
reflecting increase in BRCA testing rates, as we roll out additional launches across Europe and
secure reimbursement in several markets with the inclusion of the broader EU ovarian tablet
label.
Japan is off to a very nice start following the second quarter launches in ovarian and breast
cancer and now has $25 million in sales year to date. We also see encouraging signs in China,
which Pascal had mentioned. We launched in in the third quarter. And we are the first PARP
inhibitor, contributing to the $33 million in the emerging market sales.
The ongoing collaboration with our partner Merck progresses in the field force and beyond. And
we continue to look forward to an exciting next few quarters of delivery for what we believe is
the leading PARP inhibitor.
So could we please turn now to slide 15. Now turning to our lung cancer portfolio and starting with
Tagrisso, which is the number one medicine in the Oncology portfolio and the company's third
largest selling medicine. Tagrisso demonstrated continued growth of 91% with $1.2 billion in sales
in the year to date, and that's as the first-line label launches start to take effect. Tagrisso, as
Pascal mentioned, is now annualizing at $2 billion.
The U.S. exhibited good growth with sales of $580 million, as we continue the first-line launch.
And in the U.S., Tagrisso has now achieved approximately 60% new patient share in the first-line
indication. This is up from the 50% that we commented on last quarter. And it is starting to now
become implemented as standard of care. And further, we saw reinforcement for the recent
inclusion on the NCCN Guidelines, as Tagrisso is the preferred regimen in Category 1.Europe demonstrated a strong year to date with $222 million in year-to-date sales and growth of
68%. This medicine is now reaching more patients in the various countries across this region. And
we continue to see our reimbursement efforts paying off, as we are getting reimbursement in
the first-line indication.
Japan had sales of $191 million year to date, up by 18%. And really this reflects very focused
activities to continue to drive success in the second line. But now we're beginning to commence
our launch efforts for the first-line indication. And we're seeing success there.
Finally on Tagrisso in Emerging Markets, we saw $266 million in sales in the year with China
contributing the majority. We were quite pleased to see Tagrisso added to the National
Reimbursement Drug List, or NRDL, for second-line T790M-mutated patients. And we do expect
to see the NRDL take effect from the New Year.
We could potentially see some slower growth on a quarter-over-quarter basis, as some patients
wait for the implementation of Tagrisso onto the NRDL program in the New Year. But we certainly
see this as a nice opportunity for long-term growth.
Please now turn to slide 16. Continuing in lung cancer, following the Imfinzi approval in the U.S. for
the PACIFIC indication of unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung cancer in the first quarter, we
are realizing an inflection point with $371 million in sales for the year, and the vast majority of that
coming from the U.S. and the lung indication.
In the U.S., we see roughly half of the PACIFIC-eligible patients in the setting are getting an
immunotherapy. The majority of those are getting Imfinzi. And we continue to see a positive
impact on chemo radiation rates in the U.S., as more patients are becoming eligible for Imfinzi
now within this setting.
During the period of the third quarter, Imfinzi was also added to NCCN Guidelines as Category 1,
further strengthening the standard of care in this setting.
Initial feedback on the launch from physicians and patients is quite good, as we continue to drive
physician education efforts to address this area of high unmet need in this potentially curative
setting.
Imfinzi secured approvals in a number of additional countries for the PACIFIC indication, including
EU and Japan. Sales outside of the U.S. are gaining momentum, as we look to launch and gain
reimbursement in the relevant countries. And in Japan alone, we delivered $9 million in the
quarter, following a July approval. And we're excited to bring Imfinzi to more patients across the
globe in this area of unmet need through the rest of the year in 2019.
For my final slide, please turn to 17. Turning now to our emerging hematology franchise, I'd like to
reflect the continued progress we are making in hematology, a platform that we are building
upon for the years to come.
Calquence continues to perform well with sales of $38 million year to date in our fast-to-market
second line relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma indication. We estimate that over a third of
patients in the approved indication are now treated with Calquence. And we have also seen
importantly an increase in the use of patients who are BTKi-naïve patients. We look forward to
two Phase III chronic lymphocytic leukemia data readouts expected in 2019.
And then also as Pascal had mentioned, Lumoxiti was recently launched in the U.S. as our first
medicine from the antibody drug conjugate platform within the niche but high-end unmet needdisease of hairy cell leukemia. We entered into a collaboration with Innate in October, where
Innate will take on the marketing of Lumoxiti. We also gained access to a number of pipeline
molecules from Innate.
Lumoxiti takes us up now to five oncology approvals since the end of 2014. And we are incredibly
excited to be one step closer to the six new medicines in our Oncology business that we set out
to achieve by 2020. We continue to appreciate the opportunity to bring what science can do to
as many cancer patients as possible.
And with this, I hand it over to Mark.
`Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Thanks, Dave. Now moving to New CVRM, our medicines in cardiovascular, renal, and metabolism.
Sales were up 12%, despite intense competition, with year-to-date sales at $2.9 billion. Growth for
both Farxiga and Brilinta remain strong with double digit increases globally.
Brilinta delivered sales of $945 million with 18% growth so far in the year to date. And that was
driven by strong performance in emerging markets, up 31%, and continuous growth in the U.S.
and Europe, up 16% and 12%, respectively. So we continue to be very pleased with the
performance of Brilinta.
Farxiga delivered sales of $994 million in the year to date with 32% growth, maintaining volume
market share leadership globally. Farxiga saw growth of 24% in the U.S., gaining in-class share,
due to improved competitiveness across health care plans.
Outside the U.S., where we have 58% of our global sales, we've seen encouraging performances
with volume driven growth increasing, with Europe up 25% and emerging markets up 57%. In
China, we are pleased to have delivered reimbursement in eight provinces so far with further
discussions underway.
We're looking forward to sharing the detailed results of our positive DECLARE study during the
American Heart Association in just two days' time.
Turning back to the U.S. and the fast-growing GLP-1 market, our autoinjector, Bydureon BCise, is a
key driver, where the Bydureon franchise continued its growth, up 19% globally in the quarter. And
importantly, we estimate that over half of our new patients to the franchise are starting on
Bydureon BCise.
Next slide please. Turning to Respiratory, with 5% growth in the quarter, we've now returned to
growth in the year to date at 2%. During the quarter, the ongoing challenge of price competitive
environment in the U.S. with Symbicort was offset by solid growth in Japan and emerging markets
and including the launch of Fasenra.
Our Symbicort product sales were down by 9% with a reduction and decline during the quarter of
7%, mainly due to the U.S. pricing pressure slightly moderating this quarter. Volume growth was
seen for the second quarter in a row. And global market share leadership was retained.
U.S. Symbicort sales were down 19%, and Europe was down 8%. However, in emerging markets,
Symbicort exhibited continued growth, up 12%. And growth will be further supported by the
updating of guidelines from the Chinese Journal of General Practitioners to incorporate the
SYGMA data, recommending that Symbicort, or ICS formoterol, as an option for all asthma
severities.Pulmicort was up 7% with sales of $897 million. Emerging markets was the driver of this growth, up
16%.
Please turn to slide 20. As Pascal mentioned, Fasenra continued its strong start with sales of $172
million in the year. The launch continues to perform in line with our expectations, given its highly
competitive clinical profile.
In the U.S. and Germany, Fasenra is now the leading novel respiratory biologic in terms of new
patient starts, with new patient start leadership in the U.S. now coming from both – from allergists
and pulmonologists. In Japan, Fasenra is the leading biologic both in terms of new patient starts
and value regardless of class.
U.S. sales were $129 million. And Japan delivered a strong early uptake with $26 million. Sales in
Europe were $17 million with the majority coming from Germany, as we continue our launches in
other countries.
The strong clinical profile of Fasenra has contributed to its ongoing successes, combined with the
significant achievement of our teams in executing against our plan. This is reinforced by an
industry leading support program to help Fasenra gain appropriate reimbursement in order to
provide access to more patients.
In the quarter, we presented data from the BORA trial. BORA is a Phase III extension trial of
patients who had completed one of the three pivotal trials for Fasenra, SIROCCO, CALIMA, or
ZONDA.
In the BORA trial, Fasenra, given for an additional 56 weeks as an add-on treatment, showed a
safety and tolerability profile similar to that observed in the placebo controlled registration trials
with no increase in the frequencies of overall or serious adverse events. The improvements and
efficacy measures observed with Fasenra in the registrational trials were maintained over the
second year of treatment.
Within the more than 30 markets that have launched today, we are now leading the IL-5 class in
terms of new patient starts. We look forward to other countries coming onboard for the
remainder of the year as they initiate their launches.
Please turn to slide 21. Emerging markets continue to track in line with long term performance
targets with 12% sales growth in the year to date. China delivered a strong performance again, as
Pascal mentioned, with 27% growth. China benefited from the addition of more medicines to the
National Reimbursement Drug List last year and the ongoing launch of Tagrisso, which has already
received – Tagrisso has already received NRDL listing and will come into effect early next year.
At the same time, we've now had six of our main products added to the updated essential drugs
list. These are Pulmicort, Symbicort, Iressa, Brilinta, Crestor, and Forxiga.
Outside of China we continue to see the impact from divestments, an estimated negative impact
of 10%. At the same time, challenging economic conditions continue to negatively impact our
business in Russia. While in Brazil, we delivered strong double digit growth.
Finally, strong performance continued across our main therapeutic areas in emerging markets
with Oncology, now a $1 billion franchise, up 39%; New CVRM up 39% as well; and Respiratory up
15%.
With this, I'll hand over to Marc.`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Mark, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes taking you
through our financial performance in the first nine months of the year.
Please turn to slide 23. As usual, I will begin with the reported profit and loss before turning to the
core numbers. As Pascal mentioned earlier, product sales increased by 2% in the year to date,
supporting our guidance for the year.
It is worth remembering that the collaboration with Merck delivered around $1 billion of external
revenue by itself in the first nine months of 2017, which explains that the external revenue
declined by 81% in the year to date. I do, however, anticipate a significant sum of external
revenue and other operating income to be recorded before the end of this year.
Although external revenue will decline as a proportion of total revenue from what is already a
small number, I want to be clear that we remain focused on creating further external
opportunities in the future.
As we have begun our long awaited return to growth, I'm pleased that we have reduced
restructuring cost in the year to date by $374 million to $271 million. We have also reduced CapEx
by $121 million to $728 million. Anticipated declines in both restructuring cost and capital
expenditure over the full year.
Please turn to slide 24. Moving now to the core and profit and loss. Our gross margin ratio for the
year to date fell as expected by 2 percentage points to 80%, driven by the comparative impact
of positive manufacturing variances in the first half of last year as well as the inclusion of the profit
share with Merck. Importantly, the ratio was stable in the third quarter at 79% and very much in
line with the second half of 2017.
Total core operating expenses increased by 2% with a 6% decline in core R&D cost, outweighed
by a 7% increase in core SG&A cost. Our core tax rate was 19%, within the range of 16% to 20%.
Please turn to slide 25. There was limited externalization revenue in the quarter with $10 million of
upfront income and ongoing external revenue of $64 million. It is worth highlighting, however, the
growing contribution from the collaboration with Merck with $170 million of milestones payments
received in the year to date.
We also see potential for significant revenue in the fourth quarter as option payments, together
with $100 million of option payments next year. We also anticipate a further $150 million milestone
receipt before the end of this year.
It is important to note that there will be a regular stream of milestone payment from Merck over
time, which will reduce the variability in externalization revenue.
Please turn to slide 26. As I mentioned earlier, core R&D cost declined by 6% in the year to date.
Although I do not anticipate such a decline over the full year at constant exchange rates.
Despite maintaining a high level of activity, we continue to deliver the benefit of productivity
initiative, improved resource utilization, simplification, and improved development processes,
which are all helping to deliver cost reduction. Investment in our business remain one of our
capital allocation priorities. And this more targeted investment approach to R&D is delivering
consistent results from our pipeline.Core SG&A cost increased by 7% in the year to date, reflecting the investment in new medicine
launches and in China. As I said to you in July, we closely monitor our sales performance. And if
we see that our investments continue to drive excellent results, we will retain flexibility in our
investment approach.
Given the performances from the new medicines and in China, I now anticipate core SG&A cost
at constant exchange rate to increase over the full year, broadly in line with those seen in the year
to date.
Please turn to slide 27. Turning to Brexit, it has mainly operational impact for AstraZeneca. Our
focus, however, is on getting uninterrupted supplies of medicine to patients. We are taking a
number of steps to ensure a continued supply, some of which are shown on the slide.
The UK government has confirmed that it will accept EU-tested medicine in the event of no deal.
We are working hard to coordinate variation to licenses and thousand of packaging material
changes across AstraZeneca. And as the UK pulls away from the EU, we are focusing on the
reduction of mutual interdependence, as well as replicating critical production processes both in
the UK and the EU.
To protect long-term supply to EU patients, we are duplicating batch testing of 27 medicine
currently performed in the UK for EU release in Sweden. To safeguard against friction at borders,
we will move stock from the UK to European distribution centers to be as close as possible to
customers. We will also build an additional six weeks of stock for UK supply, in line with the
government request, and four weeks extra stock for EU supply.
We are also speaking to the European Union and Member State governments around the
acceptance of UK testing standards.
Operationally, we have been preparing for Brexit since the referendum in 2016. I want to reassure
to you that, overall, Brexit will have relatively limited impact on AstraZeneca. We keep preparing
carefully for Brexit to ensure that no patients are denied our medicine.
Please turn to slide 28. And I would like to conclude with our 2018 guidance, which is on product
sales and core EPS at constant exchange rates. The product sales performance in the year to
date was in line with expectation, so I keep my guidance for low single digit product sale growth
over the full year unchanged.
I continue to anticipate the sum of external revenue and other income will be less than that of
2017. We anticipate substantial transaction and potential for Merck income being recorded in the
fourth quarter. We are on track to deliver guidance of a core EPS of $3.30 to $3.50 at constant
exchange rates.
Finally, our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged, given the performance so far this year,
the success of our new medicine, and the pipeline that is key to our return to growth.
With that, I will hand over to Sean.
`Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Thank you, Marc. I would now like to take – to share an overview of our pipeline progress this year
and take a look forward at our upcoming news flow.
Can we please turn to slide 30. Our level of pipeline news flow continues to be unprecedented.
There was strong progress with all our new medicines during the year, bringing new benefits topatients across all therapy areas.
Within our new Oncology medicines, Lynparza strengthened its lead in ovarian cancer with
positive data in the SOLO-1 trial and received approvals in major markets for breast cancer. We
continue to establish our lung cancer franchise with approvals for Tagrisso and Imfinzi across
several markets worldwide, building on the unprecedented data from the FLAURA and PACIFIC
trials, respectively.
In CVRM, approvals for Lokelma in the U.S. and EU kick-started our growing renal portfolio. This
year we had positive top line results in DECLARE with our SGLP2 inhibitor Farxiga. And we also
submitted Farxiga for type-1 diabetes in the EU and Japan based on novel findings from the
DEPICT trials. Also in type-2, the Bydureon BCise device is now available to patients in the EU.
Approvals in asthma for Fasenra and COPD for Bevespi are delivering our Respiratory franchise,
as is FDA breakthrough therapy designation for tezepelumab in the U.S.
Please turn now to slide 31. With our new Oncology medicines, Lynparza is cementing its position
as the PARP inhibitor of choice across different tumor types. Today we can tell you, we have
submitted the remarkable SOLO-1 data in the EU, Japan, and China. Approvals for first-line
maintenance therapy following chemo and BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer, coupled with its
already widespread use as a second-line maintenance treatment, will establish Lynparza as the
leading PARP inhibitor in ovarian cancer.
Added to this, next year we will have data from the Phase III PAOLA-1 trial, which tests Lynparza
first-line use in patients receiving bevacizumab maintenance therapy. This indication could further
broaden the use of Lynparza.
Beyond ovarian, we are the leading PARP inhibitor in the treatment of germline BRCA-mutated
metastatic breast cancer with approvals secured in the U.S. and Japan and more markets to
come.
In 2019, we will continue expanding the lifecycle program for Lynparza with data readouts for the
POLO trial in pancreatic cancer and the PROFOUND trial for prostate cancer.
Looking at PARP inhibition in combination with immuno-oncology, we are expanding our testing of
Lynparza together with Imfinzi. In addition to DuO-O in ovarian cancer, we have a new
combination trial, which will explore Lynparza and Imfinzi in non-small cell lung cancer.
Please turn to slide 32. Now moving on to Tagrisso, our leading EGFR inhibitor. Tagrisso is now the
standard of care for the treatment of EGFR-mutated first-line metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer and in the second line for patients with the T790M mutation. The FLAURA data are truly
exciting and have shown that Tagrisso has an unprecedented median progression-free survival of
18.9 months compared with 10.2 months for placebo, almost double – actually placebo for first-
generation EGFR inhibitors.
We expect final data on overall survival, the ultimate goal for any cancer treatment, to be
available in the second half of next year.
Looking at the use of Tagrisso in earlier stages of lung cancer, we anticipate data in the adjuvant
setting with the ADAURA trial and in the locally advanced setting with the recently announced
LAURA trial to read out beyond 2020. Patients in over 80 countries are benefiting from Tagrisso,
which has the potential to significantly impact long-term patient outcomes.Turn now to slide 33. Moving on to Imfinzi. At the World Conference on Lung Cancer in Toronto
this September, we showed overall survival data to support use of Imfinzi at the standard of care
for Stage III unresectable non-small cell lung cancer, following concurrent chemo radiotherapy.
In the PACIFIC trial, Imfinzi reduced the risk of death by nearly one-third on the back of an
unprecedented improvement in median PFS of more than 11 months. Patients in over 40 countries
are now benefiting from the PACIFIC regimen.
Today, we are announcing a new Stage III trial, PACIFIC-5, to explore Imfinzi following sequential
chemo radiation, predominantly in Asian patients. And also the new ADRIATIC trial, looking at
patients with Stage III limited disease small-cell lung cancer, who have not progressed following
chemo radiation.
We have a high volume of readouts in the near term, looking at Imfinzi both as a monotherapy
and in combination with tremelimumab and/or chemotherapy. These trials include MYSTIC in
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer and EAGLE in second-line head and neck cancer this year.
In 2019, data from KESTREL in first-line head and neck cancer will be available, as well as late-
stage lung cancer readouts from NEPTUNE, POSEIDON, and CASPIAN.
In bladder cancer, we now have seven approvals worldwide for Imfinzi as a second-line treatment.
And we expect results next year for its first-line use. Building on this, the new NIAGARA trial is
looking at earlier-stage bladder cancer, specifically muscle-invasive disease. And NILE is testing
Imfinzi as a first-line bladder cancer treatment with chemotherapy.
In terms of our next generation immuno-oncology portfolio, we have recently strengthened our
collaboration with Innate Pharma to gain access to some exciting early stage compounds,
including full rights to monalizumab, a first-in-class humanized antibody against the NKG2A
checkpoint receptor and an option on the anti-CD39 monoclonal antibody.
Please turn now to slide 34. With established leadership positions in solid tissue tumors, we have
also made encouraging progress with our hematology franchise. We achieved our first antibody
immuno-toxin conjugate approval this year with the U.S. approval of Lumoxiti, following its priority
review for third-line use in hairy cell leukemia.
Our BTK inhibitor, Calquence, is expected to be approved outside the U.S. for mantle cell
lymphoma in the coming months. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia, an indication with a larger
population size, our first two Phase III trials are due to read out in the second half of 2019.
Turn now to slide 35. Turning to CVRM, our platform of cardiovascular outcomes trials that are
primed to address long-term risk factors for patients with type-2 diabetes, heart failure, renal
disease, and dyslipidemia are reading out.
Positive results from DECLARE, our outcomes trial for Farxiga, will be presented on Saturday at
the American Heart Association meeting in Chicago. The trial achieved one of its primary
endpoints, a statistically significant reduction in the composite endpoint of hospitalization for
heart failure or cardiovascular death in a broad population.
Looking forward to 2019, we expect to have results for Brilinta's outcomes trial, THEMIS, in
patients with coronary artery disease and type-2 diabetes in the first half of the year.
In 2020, we will see results from Brilinta's THALES trial in acute ischemic stroke and transient
ischemic attack; Epanova's STRENGTH trial in mixed dyslipidemia and hypertriglyceridemia; andFarxiga's DAPA-HF trial in heart failure patients with reduced ejection fraction; and then data from
DAPA-CKD in chronic kidney disease.
Finally we have recently announced a new Phase III trial called DELIVER, which looks at the effect
of Farxiga in a key population, heart failure patients with preserved ejection fracture. The DAPA-
HF and DELIVER trials evaluate Farxiga use in both diabetic and non-diabetic patients.
Please turn to slide 36. Taking a look now at our growing renal franchise, we received approval
for our best-in-class hyperkalemia treatment, Lokelma, in both the United States and EU this year.
At the American Society of Nephrology meeting earlier this month, we announced positive data
for our HARMONIZE global trial, evaluating the use of Lokelma in patients in Japan, Korea,
Taiwan, and Russia. The HARMONIZE Asia trial, due to read out in 2019, will support an application
in China in 2020.
In collaboration with FibroGen, we have an extensive clinical program underway for roxadustat,
our first-in-class oral medicine for the treatment of anemia caused by chronic kidney disease and
end-stage renal disease. And we expect to receive a first regulatory decision in China by year-
end.
Efficacy data for the phase – from the Phase III ROCKIES and OLYMPUS trials will be available this
year, as will data from our partners FibroGen and Astellas. We will file in the U.S. next year based
on pooled cardiovascular safety data from the total ALPINE program.
Turn now to slide 37. Moving on now to inhaled Respiratory medicines. This year we have made
good progress with Bevespi, our fixed-dose dual bronchodilator and the first medicine on the
Aerosphere platform. Bevespi is now approved in the U.S. and Canada and received a positive
CHMP opinion in the EU last month, in addition to regulatory submissions in both Japan and China.
PT010, also on the Aerosphere platform, is a closed triple medication being evaluated initially for
the treatment of COPD and eventually asthma. The KRONOS Phase III trial in moderate to severe
COPD, which was published in Lancet Respiratory Medicine, showed a 52% reduction in
exacerbation in comparison with dual LAMA/LABA.
KRONOS data has been submitted in Japan and China. And we anticipate submission in the U.S.
and EU, plus a regulatory decision in Japan, to come next year.
The next trial we read out in the program in the second half of next year will be ETHOS,
evaluating the efficacy of PT010 in moderate to very severe COPD.
Please turn now to slide 38. And finally, a look at our science-led biologics portfolio in Respiratory
disease, starting with Fasenra. Mark covered the BORA trial earlier, so I will just say we continue to
be pleased with Fasenra's profile and long-term safety and efficacy.
Last quarter, we initiated OSTRO, a Phase III trial in nasal polyposis. And we expect data readout
in 2020.
On to tezepelumab. Following strong results from the PATHWAY Phase IIb trial in 2017, in which
tezepelumab showed a significant reduction in the annual asthma exacerbation rate compared
with placebo in patients with severe uncontrolled asthma, we hope to see similar results in
PATHFINDER, tezepelumab's Phase III program. The first data readout from PATHFINDER is due in
2020.
Tezepelumab was awarded Breakthrough Therapy Designation status from the U.S. FDA intestament to showing compelling efficacy and safety in Phase IIb for severe asthma patients
without an eosinophilic phenotype.
Turn now to slide 39. To conclude, I would like to remind you of some of the key news flow to
come. For Lynparza, we hope to move forward in breast cancer with an approval in the EU and to
advance into first-line BRCA mutated ovarian cancer with submissions of SOLO-1 in the EU, Japan,
and China, with first regulatory decisions expected from the second half of 2019.
For Tagrisso, next year we anticipate a regulatory decision for its first-line use in China, where as
many as 30% to 40% of non-small cell lung cancer patients have the EGFR mutation. Plus the
overall survival readout from FLAURA that I referred to earlier.
In immuno-oncology, we expect a high volume of data readouts across several tumor types for
both – for Imfinzi both alone and in combination. We anticipate data for roxadustat, plus a first
regulatory decision, based on efficacy data in China this quarter and submission in the U.S. next
year.
For Bevespi in COPD, we hope to receive a decision from the EU and submit in Japan by year
end.
With this, thank you, everyone, for your continued support. And thanks to all the hard-working
colleagues in AstraZeneca who come to work every day to make this happen. Now I will hand
back to Pascal for closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Please turn to slide 41. Before we end, let me give you a short summary. We are
really pleased by the improving financials and the return to growth in sales in the year to date, but
most importantly in quarter three, more than 9% at CER. We promised an inflection point, and
we've delivered it.
Total revenue was held back by lower externalization. We see potential for significant income in
the fourth quarter from Merck. And we also recently announced further streamlining of our
portfolio, including Nexium in some markets. Depending on the structure of such agreements, I
either realize as externalization revenue or other operating income. We remain focused on
productivity, as shown by the 2% increase in total core operating expenses, while we continue to
invest for growth and in China.
Our ongoing launches and the performance of the new medicines keep up optimistic about the
future. We've realized more than $1.8 billion in incremental sales for the new medicines and 76%
growth. China also is doing incredibly well.
The pipeline has continued to deliver important news flow, which will support a sustainable
growth moving forward. So all together we are clearly on track with our 2018 guidance today.
I will stop here, and we now go to the Q&A.
Q&A
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We'll also take written questions from the webcast.
And as always I would like to remind everybody to limit questions to one to be fair to all of ourbut one at a time would be great.
Perhaps we can start with the first question from the conference call. And I will ask Emmanuel
Papadakis of Barclays to ask his question. Go ahead, Emmanuel.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thanks very much for taking the question. It's `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. I have lots. But
maybe I better start with, in order of priority, the cash flow question for Marc.
Would just love to hear you reiterate or not your thoughts about still delivering a level of free – of
cash flow from operations, rather, in line or ahead of 2017's $4 billion. We're obviously a long way
from that figure year to date. Maybe you could just remind us in terms of the working capital
movements as well year to date.
And if I could throw in a relevant addendum. Your level of comfort on current dividend cover
would also be appreciated. Many thanks.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you for these multiple questions on the cash flow. So if you look at the cash flow for – the
cash flow from operations for year-to-date September, you can see that we are achieving about
$400 million. This is lower that what we had last year at the same time period. This is due to
primarily to lower EBITDA. And of course, the EBITDA of 2017 was supported by a strong external
revenue on our contract with Merck. So this is one of the reason.
And on the working capital, if we look at the inventories receivable and payable, there are not
large differences between 2017 and 2018. However, we have had several settlement of litigation
that came out from provision. And this has deteriorated the cash outlay for short-term provisions.
And then you asked me a question about the dividend. I think the dividend cover, we will have I
mean definitely in 2018, our EPS guidance is between $3.30 to $3.50, so that's going to be clearly
lower than are usual $4.20 guidance that we have put out in the past. So it is a fact that 2018 will
be sort of a lower EPS for in comparison to previous year.
But we will still maintain our dividend policy, which is as progressive a dividend policy, where we
maintain or increase whenever we can. So I have no special comments on the dividend, which has
been reconfirmed time and over again by our Board of Directors.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. Thank you, Marc. We'll go to the next question, Tim Anderson. Go ahead, Tim.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Thank you. I have a question on Tagrisso. So impressive uptake in emerging markets and
especially in China. Yet in China, it's only approved for second-line disease. You note how the
first-line application could be approved in later 2019.
My question is, how you think that will actually affect uptake relative to today? I'm wondering if it's
possible that first-line approval could end up actually not having that great of an effect, becauseChina might push use of first-generation drugs like Tarceva and Iressa in the first-line setting and
keep Tagrisso relegated to second-line, even with a first-line approval. So you have NDRL – or
NRDL listing for second-line, would you like to get that for first-line as well?
And then just one quick question on BR.31, which is an ADJUVANT trial, is that registrational for
Imfinzi? It's a cooperative group trial, and sometimes cooperative group trials are not
registrational?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Tim. Two great questions. Maybe, Dave, you can start.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And then Sean will add.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah. I think, Tim, there's both a potential and a filing question in the Tagrisso piece. Why don't I
talk about the market potential component? Sean can speak to the filing. And then you can talk
about BR.31 afterwards.
So in terms of Tagrisso, maybe just to start. While your question was front-line focused, I think it's
worth just taking a moment on second-line. As you know we've been launched into the private
pay market in China for some time now. And we've seen growth in our sales in China as a result
of that.
Certainly one of the things that we're encouraged by was the NRDL listing, as it opens up the
market to quite a bit more patients within second-line. So we estimate that around 115,000
patients will be treated with a first- or second-generation TKI. And of those, from a market
potential perspective, we think that about a quarter of them will be tested and found positive for
the T790M mutation.
So that gives a sense of the size of the population. And I think that we certainly count on our
operations and commercial teams to be able to drive the uptake that we'll have with NRDL.
In terms of first-line, Sean, maybe good point to transition to the filing discussions there.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Sure. Sure. Sure. Yeah. Tim, thanks for the questions. With regards to Tagrisso first-line in China,
as you correctly captured, we expect a regulatory decision from CFDA next year. And I think the
question is, well, what will that do to uptake? Where does NRDL fit?
So the first thing is that all those initial approvals, really China is a private market at that point. So
individuals who are able for that indication to pay for the drug then will have access to drug. So
there will be some use that way.
The other thing I'll point out is obviously the duration of use, because the duration of freedom
from progression or death is much longer in the first-line, it's actually per patient who initiates
quite a bit longer in the first-line therapy.The next part is what will happen with NRDL? And I would add then that uncertainty from what the
Chinese government will do. Then also when they will do it, whatever it might be. So we just – I
think we go step by step, first approval, approval will lead to a launch, again to a private market,
and then we'll start the discussions with the Chinese government.
On to BR.31 ADJUVANT trial for Imfinzi in non-small cell lung cancer. You are correct, the trial is
sponsored by the Canadian Clinical Trials Group (sic) [Canadian Cancer Trials Group]. And the
question was, is it registrational? Our intention is that it is registrational.
The group has a history of doing trials that have enabled registration in lung cancer. They were
previously called NCI Canada. And during that period were able to conduct trials that support
registration. And of course, we work very closely with them during the conduct of the trial to
make sure that the quality of the data that results will enable regulatory filing and will meet
muster when inspected by regulators globally.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Next question is from `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Thanks for taking my question. Just a very high-level financial
question. It's clearly positive to see the sales inflection for the first time, as you mentioned,
Pascal, in a number of years. I wonder if you could talk to when we would expect that to flow
through to EBIT.
And I know it's early and we get formal guidance on 2019 next year. But I wonder if you could just
talk to some of the moving parts as we think into next year, lower down the P&L. So just color on
SG&A growth, given the slightly higher guidance for this year. Broader comments on underlying
margin leverage. And whether you expect that to offset however one-off income plays through
next year? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sachin. So I think it's a good question. And I think it's important to remind everybody of
what it is we're trying to achieve in this strategy report.
So first of all, we have to rebuild the pipeline. So we went into three steps. One is we rebuild the
pipeline, because we didn't have any new products. Two is, we launch these new products and
return the pipeline into commercial successes and then top line growth. So we are in this period,
right now, where we're driving top line growth. And we have to drive this as hard as possible. And
the next phase is to drive the top line growth – to take the top line growth down to the bottom
line.
So, yes, clearly we expect the operating margin to improve over the next year or two. We said
that we would expect the operating margin to reach industry norm, 30% and beyond, as we
move beyond 2020.
And certainly in the meantime, what we're doing is continuing to streamline the portfolio,
generate income through these activities and cover the dividend. I just want to repeat, I mean I
want to be clear with the dividend cover, we will certainly maintain the dividend as we go through
this period of time.We are almost at the end of the tunnel, if I may say so. We can see the light at the end of this
tunnel. The top line growth is strong, and it will continue. And as we look at 2019, it will continue
happening like this. So what we have to do is, over the next period of time, 2019, 2020, we'll
manage our expenses to drive top line growth.
And we're going to focus now our attention to, what you might call, underlying growth of our EPS,
of our profit, excluding externalization. So we may get some greater visibility. And then you can
be reassured that the business is moving in the right direction.
I can't really be too specific, I'm sorry, Sachin, in term of giving you guidance for the expenses.
We'll do that early 2019.
But suffice to say, we are very clear that we need to increase the operating margin. And to do
this, we need to drive top line growth but manage the cost. And it's not only SG&A. It's the totality
of SG&A and R&D that we have to manage of course. Yeah.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Can I just have a clarification? You mentioned a focus on underlying growth into 2019. Does that
imply guidance models of an underlying basis?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, this is the one thing that we are thinking through. I think certainly being a little bit clearer as
to what the underlying growth is, is certainly going to be very much at the top of our mind. But
we'll see what we do with guidance, per se. But certainly we'll make sure that – I mean our focus
is on that. And we have to see how much details we're going to give on that.
But we're thinking it through, because it's really key to make sure everybody understands the
underlying business is now in a period of very fast growth. And the topline growth is going to
drive earnings growth, no question about it. Yeah.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, we're going to move to the next question, Peter at Handelsbanken – Peter Sehested, go
ahead Peter. Oh, no, sorry. The question is online. Apologies. I'll have to read it.
So the question is, being early in the product lifecycle and late in the R&D lifecycle, we are seeing
2018 SG&A costs being higher than initially anticipated and R&D lower. But in 2019, 2020, we are
still early in the product lifecycle. And you must not be complacent in order not to fall into a 2006-
like pattern cliff in the future.
Sorry, I'm going through the question here. This line of thought implies continued strong growth in
SG&A in 2019 and maybe slight increasing R&D costs, potentially putting at risk the topline growth
to materialize into bottom line the market is expecting. Please reassure us on your commitment,
ability to deliver on consensus expectations.
Yeah, let me just repeat what I said a minute ago. We're very clear that we need to increase
operating margin, drive profitability up, take the topline growth to the bottom line, improve our
cash flow. There's no doubt. And we've said it before. I'll say it again. We – the plan is to managefor this transition period. And then start reducing our debt across 2020. So that is very, very clear.
And that is what we're going to do over the next year and continue to do in 2020.
`Jack Scannell, Analyst, UBS Ltd. at UBS. Jack, go ahead.
Q - `Jack Scannell, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Hey, thank you very much. A long-term question. There's a new challenge that faces people like
us now in Oncology. And that is that so much is being discovered that drugs that were pretty
good two or three years ago are being rendered obsolete before their patents expire. So you've
done it to Tarceva, Iressa, and Gilotrif. You're hoping to do it to ibrutinib with Calquence.
So if we think about Tagrisso, whereas there's a patent expiry in 2032 in the Orange Book, what
odds would you give on Tagrisso making it to patent expiry without being rendered technically
obsolete as a first-line agent in lung cancer?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, it's a great question, Jack, and I think technology, of course, is evolving rapidly these days.
But I mean it's taken us five years to get to where we are with Tagrisso.
And I would like to remind everybody – and I'll ask Sean to also comment on this. But I'd like to
remind everybody that like five years ago, everybody was saying there's lots of competitors
around you – or around Tagrisso that is. And many of these products have just disappeared.
So it's not that simple to develop an agent as exquisite as Tagrisso that penetrates the blood-
brain barrier as effective as it is.
Now having said that, we certainly shouldn't be complacent. And we're working ourselves on the
next generation of compounds. And also more importantly, how do you manage the patients who
progress on Tagrisso and develop resistances, escape efficacy from Tagrisso.
Now can we say by 2032 Tagrisso will be the only agent out there, however you have to say. But I
think we have quite a few years ahead of us where Tagrisso can still enjoy a pretty nice position.
But, Sean, over to you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Sure. Sure, Pascal. Thank you, Jack, for the question. Again, I will reiterate, as Pascal said, 2032,
that's a ways off. So certainly a tremendous amount can change between now and then.
At the same time, I think if we were to see an agent that had a really viable opportunity to
displace Tagrisso in the normal lifecycle of a drug, say five, six, seven years in terms of
development to launch. We really haven't seen anything that has the attributes that are required.
Obviously T790M is something that a lot of companies, including AstraZeneca, have targeted. As
Pascal said, I think it's the central nervous system penetration and ability to really treat a common
area of the body where metastases advanced actually are quite lethal and are untreated by other
agents, probably provides a pretty good period of protection for us.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I give another example, Jack, because I think you're right. It's a very important question. Many of
us, quite frankly, a few years ago thought in immunotherapy, things would move much faster thanin fact, we by now should have a number of those. OX40, I still remember, was one of those. And
there were many others.
And in truth, PDX, if I may call it this way, still the mainstay of immunotherapy combination with
chemo. And I do believe new combination of immunotherapies will emerge. But it's probably not
as fast as we could have thought a few years back.
`Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. at Credit Suisse. Jo, go ahead.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you. Can I ask about Fasenra? Perhaps it's on the same theme of new products coming in
and making other ones potentially obsolete. But how could you compare Fasenra and Dupixent,
now that you've seen the Dupixent label?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Jo. I think Mark will be – `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical will be delighted to talk about Fasenra.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Right.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
To you, Mark.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
So, I mean, the first response is that we continue to be very confident in Fasenra and our profile.
And we think this is a great medicine for treatment of eosinophilic severe asthma. We've got a
wealth of data through our Phase III studies. We just shared the most recent results with the
BORA study, fast improvement in lung function, great reduction in exacerbations, great reduction
of CSUs [chronic spontaneous urticaria]. And really favorable dosing approach with the once
every two months or eight weeks.
And the mechanism of Fasenra, with it targeting directly the IL-5, bringing killer cells to the
eosinophils, unique mechanism, is sort of exquisitely designed to target eosinophilic asthma. And
the feedback that we've gotten from physicians is outstanding.
And so you take that profile and compare Dupixent, there are going to be patients of which
Dupixent, based upon what we've seen in the label, will be attractive. For example, overlap
patients between atopic dermatitis and severe asthma, obviously, will be a place that will go.
But it is – we have to really see how the two, the IL-4, IL-13 really plays out in a broader audience.
We need to understand about how that in some patients we see an increase actually in
eosinophilic levels in response to the medicine. All of that has to play out as physicians get a
chance to use it.
The most important thing I would say is that, is the unmet need is so high in severe asthma. And
so with only 1 in 10 severe asthma patients eligible for a biologic getting them, I think that it would
be good to see this market expand.
Maybe there will be some patients that – certainly there will be patients that Dupixent is a good
option for. But we're confident for our target patients, which are very large, where the unmetneed is high, and where the evidence is, both from the clinical studies and the physicians and
patient experience, is really outstanding. And so we remain confident.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Mark. I think that's the key point, actually, Jo, is that the growth of the biologics class
treating asthma, I mean is potentially enormous. It would have been a bit like comparing two new
TNF inhibitors 15 or 20 years ago in rheumatoid arthritis. That would have been missing the point,
that patients needed more biologics treatment. And I think it's the same here.
Of course there will be competition. And of course we recognize that Dupixent is actually our true
competitor. But I think also we need to hope that companies collectively will help patients be
better treated. And through this expand in the class, 10% of patients get a biologic and that
should be getting one.
What we hear from Fasenra, as Mark told you, is speed of action is important to physicians, full
depletion of the eosinophils, and the efficacy is pretty good for patients with eosinophilic disease.
And I would say also, because there's a lot of talk around home use, we have a home use
program. But what we have from physicians is in severe asthma – we're not talking about
moderate asthma here. We're talking about patients who are severely ill. In severe asthma being
able to bring the patient every couple of months to the office to inject Fasenra is also good from
a compliance viewpoint and follow up. So all those I think things make Fasenra a pretty
competitive agent in the marketplace.
`Luisa Hector, Analyst, Exane Ltd. at Exane. Luisa, go ahead.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Good afternoon. So I'm switching to diabetes. Just wonder whether you have any comments on
your dual GLP-1/GCGR in Phase II? And whether we might see some data soon? And any thoughts
on the outlook, given some of the posted data from Lilly recently?
And then just checking on Farxiga, the filing timeline. And how soon you might expect the
DECLARE data to impact sales?
And then maybe just to check on Brexit, since you had the slide. It looks like the impact on cost of
goods is probably manageable. But are you assuming some of that input – impacts of the stock
build in the fourth quarter of this year? And I assume it's all within your guidance if that's the case,
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Luisa. So, Sean, do you want to cover the first two, and Mark might – Mark, you might
cover the third one.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Okay. The first two, okay. So the Farxiga DECLARE as well.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
(1:14:07)Okay, sure. So thank you for the questions. So starting with MEDI0382, that's the molecule you're
referring to, which is the GLP-1/glucagon dual. So that molecules, Phase IIb is ongoing. And we are
looking at the data. We'll plan to present it when we have it. And really our decision as to where
to go next will depend upon our review of that data.
You mentioned the Lilly molecule, slightly different to GLP-1, GIP, G-I-P. So we're not – we'll have to
look at the data, look at their data, and understand whether the mechanisms might be similar or
different in terms of the effects they produce.
The DECLARE question. So we'll present the DECLARE data on Saturday at AHA. And I think you'll
get a chance to see what we think is a really extremely meaningful effect, both in terms of the
reduction in hospitalization heart failure or cardiovascular death, which is the primary endpoint
that was met.
But also the opportunity to go into a much broader patient population, which is not only type-2
diabetes patients who have had an index event, that would be secondary prevention. But recall,
7,000 such patients in DECLARE. There are also 10,000 primary prevention patients, patients
who have not had an index event. So really a much broader spectrum.
And we intend to file that data. We will do it as soon as we can get the filing together. And it's
probably for Mark to talk about what he expects the impact to be once – should we get that data
on the label and when we do.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Yes. So obviously we can't promote until the label has changed. And there's variations of rules
around this in different countries around the world.
What I think you can say, as Sean highlighted, is there's going to be two important things coming
out. One is that this is – will be another positive evidence of impact on CV outcomes, in particular,
the really important complication associated with diabetes, heart failure. That's going to be a
really encouraging and supportive result. As well as the fact that it's going to be in a much
broader population.
So I think this is very exciting news to physicians. If you look historically, major data like this has an
impact on use, even before approval in many cases. So I'd look to past models to give an
indication of what could happen here.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Mark. Regarding the impact of the Brexit on our guidance, I think it's fair to say that it
will have a minor impact on the level of inventories. But it will also have a minor impact by way of
consequence on the EPS. But this is well within our guidance range. And therefore there's no – we
don't communicate any impact of Brexit on our guidance for 2018.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. So we have a question by email from (1:17:25).
The question is for you I think, Dave. It's regarding Imfinzi and where you are with CRT rates.
Where do you see us hitting a plateau from a purely medical perspective? In other words, what
proportion of the unresectable stage III lung cancer population is completely CRT or ineligible and
therefore out of reach for Imfinzi?A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
So thanks, Pascal. Maybe what I can start with is some of the variability that we see right now
across regions, which I think gives some sense for how high this could go. And then I'll turn it to
Sean to add some color.
Just if we take within Europe alone, we see CRT rates between – anywhere between 40% in
some of the countries where it's lowest, as high as 70% in some of the countries where CRT
rates have been adopted. And we believe that there's opportunity to grow CRT rates in all of the
regions that we're in.
I think your question appropriately implies that there are certain patients that just simply will not
be seen as being eligible for CRT. But in terms of the real world right now, that's what we're
seeing at the moment. And I think suggests that there's an opportunity certainly to get to the
overwhelming majority of patients being treated with CRT. Sean?
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Yeah. I think, to add on to that, I think there are two opportunities that we're really looking at here.
So the majority of patients who have unresectable stage III get CRT, the vast majority do.
But the one thing is, that if there's a tolerability issue, sometimes what will happen, both
tolerability or access to the coordination that's necessary to get concurrent CRT, which is what
PACIFIC studied, they will sometimes get sequential CRT, either for tolerability reasons or due to
availability in the geography.
And as I mentioned, PACIFIC-5 is the ongoing study that really studies that too. So that's one way
to access a different group of patients. We are also hearing – and I don't think this is something
we can really quantitate. But we're hearing physicians start to think differently around how
aggressive they want to be with surgical resection of stage III non-small cell lung cancer, given the
data that's being seen with PACIFIC. And whether they may choose to have the patient undergo
a CRT rather than attempt a large or complex surgical resection.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. So we have a question from Alex at BMO Capital Market. Alex, go ahead.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Great. Thank you very much, and congratulations on the sales growth and all the progress. Pascal,
you mentioned there was skepticism about Astra's ability to return to growth. And I wanted to
build on that, please.
As we enter the growth phase, I was wondering if you could revisit your 2023 guidance of $45
billion. I think that's about $40 billion to $40 billion – excuse me, $40 billion to $41 billion FX
adjusted now. And recent management commentary suggests that that was still possible.
Obviously a lot has changed since you provided that guidance. And it is significantly higher than
what the Street expect. So I'm just wondering, do you still believe that you can get to $40 billion
by 2023? And if so, what are the ways that you can get there that are not well understood by the
investment community? Thank you very much.
A - OperatorThank you, Alex.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The – yeah, it's a great question. The plan as we have developed it today still takes us to that kind
of level. And I see no reason at this point to change this, Alex.
And to answer whether we will get there or not is hard, because to some extent it depends on
how we execute commercially. But this we have what it takes to deliver. And then the other path
is the success of our products and new indications in the pipeline. So that will happen over – I
mean will become clearer over time.
Roxadustat, for instance, we'll know pretty soon. Next year we'll have more data. We'll have, for
instance, the POSEIDON study in immuno-oncology. We have ADJUVANT studies. We have – with
both Tagrisso, sorry, and Imfinzi. We have first-line ovarian cancer study in combination with
Avastin for Lynparza.
We have tezepelumab that is progressing through the pipeline. We have – if STRENGTH, we've
not talked about Epanova much, but if STRENGTH is positive, and we'll see this weekend the
amount in (01:21:57) results. I mean Epanova has a substantial potential.
So there is a whole range of products that are still potentially underestimated, because we don't
know whether they're going to work or not. But when we do our risk-adjusted sales forecast, we
still are on track to get there. And it turns into – of course, I'm not disclosing anything that you
cannot work out yourself. It turns into a compound growth rate of about 12%, 13% a year between
now and then.
So the question is can we achieve this? And the answer is, we still believe we can do it, but it
depends on the pipeline and how it unfolds. So more to come over the next year or 1.5 years in
term of the clinical news really.
Going back to Farxiga, for instance, that we were talking a minute ago. I think people sometimes
maybe underestimate the potential of heart failure. I think we all have to understand, heart failure
is as costly as cancer in term of healthcare cost. It's a major problem.
So if we, in diabetes, can establish that the SGLT2 agents actually reduce the incidents of heart
failure and also have a potential positive effect on the kidney, which we believe is the case, then
the potential for the SGLT2 class is enormous. And of course, it'll be a competitive class. But still
we believe we have a good chance to succeed here. So there's really a lot of opportunities for us
to grow.
Let's move to Seamus from Guggenheim. Seamus?
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Senior Analyst and Senior Managing Director, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Thanks very much for the question. So I just had one question. Can you guys talk a little bit about
the safety profile as presented on roxadustat at the ASM?
My understanding is, is again we saw a little bit of some safety dynamics there that brought
forward some concern. But I'd love to just hear how AstraZeneca is thinking about those data
sets. And then when we're likely to see the more complete data set for cardiovascular event
differential between EPO.And just to expand on that, could you guys talk about the opportunity in pre-dialysis and the
ability to gain reimbursement, should you show an ability to kind of expand back into that market?
Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Seamus. So one question for Sean and a question for Mark. Thomas [Larsen] kindly
reminded us to be short and sharp. So we actually manage all the questions left. So over to you,
Sean.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Okay. I will try and give you a short and sharp answer to a very complicated question, Seamus. So
I think there was some data at ASM. And that's primarily efficacy data from Asia. It's a small
hundreds of patients, actual events, we're talking a handful with a small difference.
And my argument from a safety standpoint with unusual events is you can't really conclude
anything from that data. This is, of course, a complex patient population that has risk factors for
cardiovascular events, because they have chronic kidney disease, they often have an underlying
co-morbidity that caused that, and they're on dialysis.
So with regard to then when – the rest of the question is, so what will we know? I think the way
that this will work is by the end of this year, as we have said, you will have efficacy data from our
ongoing program. And the largest trials there are ROCKIES and OLYMPUS. OLYMPUS being in the
pre-dialysis patient population, so non-dialysis dependent. ROCKIES being in the dialysis
dependent. And OLYMPUS with almost 2,800 patients. ROCKIES with a bit over 2,000. 2,100. So
much larger data sets.
So the efficacy data is based on hemoglobin response. What we have also guided to everyone is
that the basis for filing will be an aggregated safety profile across the whole program. And
because we have to aggregate multiple trials, multiple sponsors in order to do that, it will be
some time next year, first half of next year, that we will be able to share that aggregated safety
profile.
And again, we'll have two versions of it. One is that which will occur from more than 3,500
patients who are dialysis dependent. And then an even larger number who are non-dialysis
dependent, dialysis dependent versus EFAs, non-dialysis dependent versus placebo.
And I will let Mark talk about opportunity.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
A short answer for pre-dialysis is we see a substantial opportunity. And a compelling case we
think for payers. We'll need to do a lot of education, of course, because this is something new.
But anemia is clearly an issue. People living with it is a problem. And CKD patients already have a
lot of problems. And so having a chance to address this one will be I think really important. So
we're very excited for the opportunity.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, thanks, Mark, large opportunity for sure. Andrew Baum, Andrew at Citi, go ahead.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `Morning. Couple of questions. I imagine that duration – median duration of Tagrisso treatment
has increased...
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, we are losing you a little bit.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Morning.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, go ahead. We are losing you.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
The line was interrupted. I imagine the duration of treatment is including (1:28:17) first-line
approval. This is a bit of a loaded question. But where do you think this could go, given the use of
combination therapies, addressing C-MET, as well as other targets in order to overcome T790M
beyond progression, using Tagrisso beyond progression?
And then second, could you comment on your level of conviction in the differentiated safety
profile of Calquence over Imbruvica, given some recent publications suggesting that the bleeding
seen as a BTK-related phenomenon rather than off-target? Many thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks. Now, Sean, both questions for you, I guess.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Yeah.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The first one is Tagrisso and how far can it...
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Yeah, so I think there were – there was almost a commercial element in it for Dave, I thought. But
obviously we've seen – we see from FLAURA that we get a considerable extension of the
progression-free survival. And we believe that as first-line becomes a standard of care, that will
lead to each given patient's duration of treatment on Tagrisso being much longer, just because
their benefiting for considerably longer.
I think the thing that will really drive that home, as we anticipate in second half of next year, is if
the survival data also shows that benefit manifesting in that endpoint.
You asked about MET inhibitors, selumetinib probably is where you're going with that. That's an
ongoing testing there. We interestingly at ESMO, where we're seeing some variation in the
percentage of patients that we – that may be using a MET overexpression – or their tumor, I
should say, rather, using that overexpression to overcome a treatment like Tagrisso. And so that's
something we're evaluating in the clinic. And then also Dave and his team are evaluating the
opportunity.Acalabrutinib. Calquence and bleeding, we believe that the ability to differentiate Calquence
based on safety is due to incidents of severe bleeding episodes and also other severe side
effects like atrial fibrillation. We are accumulating obviously a lot of safety experience with the
molecule. And we believe it has reinforced the opportunity that we saw when we initially did the
deal with Acerta to acquire the molecule.
And ultimately the mechanism of action of something like bleeding and severe bleeding is multi-
factorial. There may be a BTK inhibition component. But it's probably likely that there are other
things as well. So we remain as confident as we were that we can differentiate based on safety.
I think the question from CL-006 when we go head-to-head with ibrutinib and generate gold
standard data is, do we also have an opportunity to differentiate on efficacy?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
I think one small data point just, Andrew, to add on this. While the front-line, it's still early days to
know whether or not we're getting to the durations that we saw within the FLAURA study. In the
second-line, we saw patients being treated to progression. And it is a testimony also to the
tolerability profile of Tagrisso, which I think is an important aspect of patients getting to what we
see in the studies.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Dave. So we have a question from Steve Scala of Cowen online, which is about the SG&A
guidance. Marc mentioned that G&A – first of all, it's a CER, what you see on the P&L. And then
it's 7%. And I think Marc said that the guidance for the year was that SG&A would go at the rate
we see at the end of nine months, so the same similar rate.
I would encourage you though to look at the totality of operating cost, R&D and SG&A, which at
the end of September, as Marc mentioned, are growing 2% total. Marc, anything you would like to
add to this?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
I think it's 7% for the quarter three, 7% – sorry, for SG&A, sorry. At CER, 7% for quarter three, 7%
for year to date and estimated to be 7% for the end of the year. Or I said broadly in line, but
around 7% would be the conclusion.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And this is CER.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
CER. Everything is at CER.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. James Gordon at JPMorgan. James, go ahead, and maybe we will take this as the last
question. Thomas, is that okay? Yeah. Yeah. James, go ahead.
Q - Operator
Hi. This is (01:32:23) from JPMorgan. Could you please comment on your appetite for equitylikely be? Would it be on accretion or growth or pipeline optionality? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks for the question. I mean if we were to do anything it would be for accretion for sure,
because that's really – there's no other way we could do anything else. But I have to say our focus
is not on this. Our focus is really on launching this product and turning this pipeline into a reality.
We still have a lot of work to do growing our top line and a lot of work to do driving increase in
our operating margin. We're very committed to doing this.
Right now we are in this transition period. And I would say almost toward the end of the transition
period, where we have to invest to really launch all those products.
But it's very clear to us we need to drive operating margin up. And that's what we're going to be
doing over the next couple of years. So that's really our focus. And any acquisition or M&A would
have to be accretive if that's – but again, this is really not our focus.
So Thomas told me we can take one more actually. So we'll take the last question from Richard
Parkes at Deutsche Bank. Richard, go ahead.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I'm just going to ask one clarification and one question. The
clarification is on the roxadustat safety question. I think one of the concerns is the hyperkalemia
imbalance that we've seen in those studies that were presented. So I just wanted to clarify, when
you look at the integrated safety database of all of the Phase II trials, was there any signal of
increased hyperkalemia risk? Because I know one of the Phase II studies there was an imbalance
there. So just wondered if you could clarify that?
And then on Calquence you talked about one-third of new patients going on Calquence in the
current indication. I wondered what anecdotal feedback you were getting from physicians over
the drug's profile, compared to your competitor? And maybe how the tolerability is playing out in
the real world. What is it that's driving patients to choose Calquence versus the competition?
Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Great questions. So maybe we can start with the last one, Dave. If you want to cover Calquence.
And then, Sean, you will cover the roxa [roxadustat] safety question.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah. So thanks, Richard, for the question. I think as you know about a third of share of the BTAI
(sic) [BTKi] class is now Calquence. As I think that really a very important additional element that
we're seeing, and this will get to the qualitative aspect, is that we're seeing increased utilization
in the BTKi-naive patients in the second-line.
So a lot of the initial trial post-launch a year ago was happening in third-plus-line patients, after
patients had been exposed to a BTKi. Because of the positive trial experience that physicians
have had with the agent in those settings, we're seeing more and more utilization moving into
earlier lines of therapy.And what that means is that it's becoming the preferred choice within the indication among the
BTKi inhibitors. And we see that as very encouraging.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Dave.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Yeah. Okay, Richard. So the question sort of had two elements. One is now moving to
hyperkalemia. I believe Andrew's question was actually about bleeding – or with roxadustat?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Roxadustat safety.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Oh, I'm sorry. That was – yeah. So roxa safety, that question is about CV risk. Again, this is a small
data set. And it's very difficult to interpret adverse events that are actually known consequences
of the underlying condition that you're treating.
So these are dialysis. This is a small data set on dialysis-dependent chronic kidney disease
patients. These patients' kidneys aren't able to regulate their potassium level.
So in a small data set, you can easily get an asymmetry in these kinds of events that are known to
be related to the disease. And actually how the dialysis can be given is varied, so that can change
it, incidence as well.
Again, based on the data we have, we haven't seen anything to suggest that the safety profile is
adverse for roxadustat. The limitation there is that it is small. And so the definitive data set will
come from the pooling. And we will look at all adverse events over that pooled data set.
But the most important one from a regulatory standpoint is the MACE cardiovascular events,
because as you recall, the current standard of care, the ESAs, have a black box warning for
increased risk around those events in their label.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Great. Thanks very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So you'll have the answer pretty soon, Richard. But based on the data we have, I mean there's –
we haven't seen anything that makes us believe that the real signal is – so in this small population
– small study is actually real.
So let me close by saying that we are definitely at a turning point. It's an important inflection point.
We're back to growth. Just like to remind you what that growth was in Q3, more than 9%. So we
clearly are swinging back to growth.
And that growth is driven by all our new products. And they're gaining momentum. They're
growing faster and faster. Remember Imfinzi, basically what the sales you see here are only the
U.S. Tagrisso is more than the U.S., but many countries don't even have reimbursement for first-
line yet. So there's a lot more to come, many new indications.So we really are at a inflection point. China continues to do well. The emerging markets are doing
well. So that's one message. We're back to growth.
The second message I wanted to leave you with is that we're definitely committed to improving
our operating margin over the next period of time and drive an increase in our operating cash
flow, underlying cash flow if you will. And so we're going to move, as we always said, from a
period of time when externalization was supporting cash flow to a period of time when the cash
flow comes from the underlying business.
We're committed to doing this. We're committed to the operating margin. You got to better this.
And hopefully you will agree so far. We've done what we told you we would do. It's not always
been easy. We've also had a few setbacks along the way. But by and large we have delivered the
pipeline. And we're launching those products, and they're doing very well. So the next period for
us is really operating margin. And we'll make this happen.
With this, I'll thank you again for your attention and your great interest. And I wish you a good rest
of the day.