Q1 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Thank you. We will now begin our question-and-answer session. And our first question comes
from the line of `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. to both of you. It's Tim from Deutsche Bank. I would have two
questions, please. The first one is on free cash flow and the second one is on electric cars.
If we think about free cash flow, many people I spoke to today said it didn't look too great,
specifically compared to your profitability in the first quarter. But the €1.3 billion shortfall versus
last year seems to be pretty much only working `capital, free cash flow stood at €302 million. For the full year, we continue to target a free cash related. `Now, to the outlook for the full year, as long as political and economic conditions do not, I understand you confirmed
your full-year target, but can you say a few words about what caused the impact in this quarter
and also if you already see it swinging back in Q2?
The second question would be on electric car profitability. We have seen that you are growing
very nicely with these `vehicles, our new technology flagship, the BMW iNext; the BMW i4 as a four-door coupé; and the. The EBIT impact seems to be very small looking at your margin.
Can we take this as a sign that you are making progress on profitability of these `vehicles, our new technology flagship, the BMW iNext; the BMW i4 as a four-door coupé; and the and
where do you stand relative to an internal combustion engine where Daimler, for example, tells
us they will probably make a similar margin by `2025, 12 of them pure electric.?
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Tim. This question will be answered by Nicolas. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Tim, maybe starting with the free cash flow, there is a good reason why we only guide full-year
free cash flow, because, as you know, we have, in particular, in the working `capital, free cash flow stood at €302 million. For the full year, we continue to target a free cash area a lot of
changes from quarter-to-quarter.
If we reflect on Q1 and you have seen this in the past, if you look back, we had swings from one
quarter to another exceeding €1.5 billion and sometimes even €2 billion. If you reflect on Q1, we
are absolutely in line with our planning.
The free cash flow was, in particular, influenced by two factors, on one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, an anticipated
buildup of inventories, which puts us in a strong position for Q2; and on the other `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, a
planned reduction in trade payables. So, `therefore, continue to remain in our long-term target corridor. As announced, R&D expenditure, we are definitely committed and continue toSecond, profitability of electric-powered cars, first of all, your comment is absolutely right. If you
look at the first quarter, in line with our full-year guidance, we have seen retail sales of electric
power cars going up by approximately 40% in a year on – in a quarter-by-quarter comparisons of
Q1 2017 to Q1 `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we. So, we are on track to achieve our full-year guidance of plus 140,000
electrified `vehicles, our new technology flagship, the BMW iNext; the BMW i4 as a four-door coupé; and the.
If you look at profitability from a company's perspective, there are a couple of factors which
influenced in a positive way our development. On one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, full availability of 5 Series mix
improvements, which will become even stronger in the course of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we, efficiency gains in some
areas and you're absolutely right, we make progress also related to costs regarding electric
drivetrain. In particular, if we compare generation 4 and generation 5, we've presented
generation 5 electric drivetrain last week, in Beijing, car will be on the market in 2020. We expect
then further improvement.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Good. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG of HSBC. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yeah. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The first quarter of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we continued to build on our and thanks for taking my questions. More housekeeping-related, I want to
get some better feeling for the seasonality this year. For the EBIT margin, we used to see that H2
margin is weaker than H1, but, I think, this year, you have got some higher volume growth in H2
due to the new model launches, we will see this time a different seasonal pattern that maybe H2
margin will hold up better compared to H1?
Then, the other questions that I have relate to your FX guidance. You guide for quite high FX
burden, I want to get a better feeling or there's a sensitivity in this guidance. So, it means, what
happens if now the U.S. dollar strengthens, could that maybe lead to a lower burden in the course
of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we that you expect at the moment?
And the last question that I have would be on the pricing situation. If you could maybe give us an
update how the pricing was by region in Q1. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Horst. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Horst, to start with the seasonality of the EBIT margin, as you know, we do not guide quarter-by-
quarter EBIT. I think our start into `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we was impressive in the upper range of our corridor, 8% to
10%. We continue to guide 8% to 10% for `the full year, we expect a headwind in the mid to high three-digit million euro range due to.
On one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, you will have on the positive side a further positive development in particularbe launched in China in a couple of weeks from now. We just ramp up production. We will, later
this year, introduce the X5; M5 is just arriving in the showrooms; 8 Series in a couple of weeks
from now.
So, all models with, on one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, positive contribution. On the other `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, as we said,
we will see higher R&D expenditure and FX and raw material impact, which is somewhere
between €501 billion. It's definitely too early in the year to say, `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, it will be more in the one or
the other direction. Can it develop in a positive way? Yeah. It can develop, but, as I said, it's too
early. We are four months into the year. We have, I think, a very sustainable hedging strategy. And
I'm, on one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, optimistic that the corridor is set exactly the right way, but it's a corridor
and that we'll achieve our 8% to 10% full-year profit margin.
Pricing situation by region, excellent development in China, definitely trending in the right
direction, similar to the U.S. If you compare to our situation in the U.S. market, with the second half
of 2016, we've seen first improvements in 2017. And I'm very optimistic that based on Q1, based
on the availability of X models, of even more X models, in the U.S. market, we will see a further
improvement.
In Europe, we have, related to the diesel topic which is, in particular, impacting Germany and the
U.K., on one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, some challenges. On the other `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, overall in Europe, business is
very solid as `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than. As planned, we have seen sales growth in all three major regions of the world.
So, based on this, we are `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than on track.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
All right. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd of Evercore. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
Many thanks and good afternoon, everyone. Two questions, please. `First, let's take a closer look at the Group figures. First quarter revenues equaled €22.69 billion.ly, concerning your
disclosure, you are increasingly understating your performance by reporting that China had equity
contribution below the EBIT line. In Q1, if you had included the €240 million from BBA, the order of
Q1 EBIT margin would have been at around 11% and that compares to 9% at Mercedes, which did
include their €332 million. China had equity number within their EBIT.
`Now, to the outlook for the full year, as long as political and economic conditions do not, China, as we know, it keeps growing, their equity line is becoming very material. So, the
question is, and I think I've asked you that before, whether you shouldn't really reconsider your
disclosure, whatever that is, whether you include their equity contribution in the EBIT line or you
report on pre-tax, it just really feels that you're understating the true underlying performance of
the business by reporting the way you do.
And then, secondly, on pricing, and thanks for your remarks, Dr. Peter, could you be a little bit
more specific what you expect for the rest of this year and also 2019 in terms of pricing? We've
discussed this many, many times and I know that you're really focused on that area. So, the
question is, can you commit to a net pricing improvement this year? Can you commit to positivepricing in 2019? Because, so far, I think, last year, it was flat, Q1 was broadly flat. When do we see
some more material improvement? `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Arndt, maybe starting with your disclosure topic, this is exactly the reason why we not only guide
Automotive EBIT, but we also guide group EBT, because I think this is exactly reflecting the
group's strength and the group performance. I have to say your calculation is pretty accurate. If
we calculate, we do exactly the same maths, we are even closer to a 12% for Q1, but it's very
accurate what you've calculated.
Regarding pricing...
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
But, Dr. Peter, if I may step in here.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yeah.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
I mean the valuation of a company depends far more on the profitability that all of us focus on
rather than the guidance that you give on pre-tax.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yeah. And this is exactly why we focus so much on profitability. And if you look, in particular, Q1 of
`2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we, it's, I think, underlining our strong focus on profitability. And this is why your second question
is so important as `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, because this is, of course, one of the key drivers for profitability in our
industry. And if you look at the age of our product portfolio and how the product portfolio will
develop in the months to come and, in particular, with the launch of additional and new X models
and X models are in very high demand across all sales regions, this is making us very optimistic
that we will be able, thanks to pricing discipline and thanks to those new models, to offset the
impacts we have in particular from the R&D area, because we believe we have to invest in those
future technologies.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
So, positive net pricing this year and next year.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Arndt, I've, I think, commented very precisely what we expect. And 2019 is too early to guide. We
will have many occasions in the months to come to reflect on 2019. We still have eight months to
go in `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
All right.A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And from my side, Harald speaking.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
Yeah.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
There's two clear things. The one is we have a clear target, NUMBER ONE Strategy, which means
we would like to be and remain the most profitable car company, as we were in 2017, as we were
in 2016 and as we were in the first quarter of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we. That's why we're clearly focusing on pricing as
Nicolas explained, but also that the strategy is expanding, especially in the luxury segments,
because we see then we can gain more – better margins in those areas.
And if we will have in 2019 the X7 on the market, if we will have in the fourth quarter of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we the
new 8 Series on the market and there are, as I mentioned, six models coming, this is clearly our
strategy to improve on our margins and fighting back more costs on the e-mobility and other
things. And I'm sure that this can take off.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you, gentlemen. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG of UBS. Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Thank you, operator. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The first quarter of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we continued to build on our, everybody. Two questions also from my side. The first one
relates to the ownership structure in China and sort of linked also to the profitability question. As
far as I understand, the joint venture, which is about to be set up with Great Wall Motor for the e-
MINI is not concluded yet. So, is there a chance that BMW is going to have a stake that's higher
than 50% in that partnership with Great Wall?
And also, as far as BBA is concerned, you will build the electric X3 in China and you announced
that you will sell it into the world markets. In that context, as China becomes a global production
hub for you, not just for the local market, wouldn't it be the right time to revisit the ownership
structure also in that BBA joint venture in light of the new rules?
And my second question, very simple question, the guidance you gave for free cash flow for this
year, does that include or exclude any cash consideration you may have to pay to Daimler for
getting a 50% stake in the mobility service joint venture? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you, Patrick. We start with Harald and then Nicolas. Harald?A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Patrick, first of all, I think, a very much welcome on the words and the speech from the Chinese
President, Xi, at the Boao Forum that he would like to open up markets as free trade and open
markets, in my view, are definitely a lever and a win-win for both sides to create jobs and wealth.
But if you look at the BMW situation, we have, for nearly 15 years and we will celebrate this one in
October, a very good relationship with Brilliance. And we are going to continue that partnership
and that's – partnership is not just the financial side, it's a competent side, it's people side. So,
we're going to continue this partnership with new products and the iX3 is the product we will
build there in 2020.
We said there might be also the opportunity to export it, but that's early to say. We just want to
start the production there, because the China market – as our strategy is production for those
markets, the China market is the biggest market in the world for e-mobility and that segment is
interesting.
Concerning Great Wall, this was the other point, we are in early discussions of this one. And if you
would like to set something up for the long term, I'm optimistic on this one. We have a good
partner discussion there with Great Wall, but it's too early to say, because we're discussing
technical details like the architecture, future models and in my experience, it always must be a
win-win on both sides. Otherwise, it's not successful.
So, strategically, we are knowing exactly what we want with the brand BMW with the brand MINI in
China, we will definitely push electrification in this market, but we are in discussions with our
partner how to proceed.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Maybe one comment from financial perspective regarding export of electric X3 to other markets.
We have agreed with a joint venture partner a different business model for those cars exported
from China.
And, Patrick, your second question, our minimum €3 billion free cash flow guidance includes
eventual agreement this year with Daimler.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Very clear. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Patrick. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) of Société Générale.
Please go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Yes. Thank you. My question is about the SUV. With the conversion of Rosslyn to the X3, as far as
in production of X3 in China as `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, what is the incremental volume of SUVs do you think you're
going to be able to achieve this year and next year? And to what extent are you approaching now
your ideal mix, you think, in terms of having right balance of SUVs and traditional sedans?A - Unverified Participant
Harald?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah. Just think about from two perspectives. The one is, for the X1, we already have three
locations in the world, one in Regensburg, one in Nedcar, Born and one in China. And we sold last
year around about 280,000 `vehicles, our new technology flagship, the BMW iNext; the BMW i4 as a four-door coupé; and the with these three locations. If you think about that, we did
150,000 around with one spot in both location. You can assume that that segment is growing
fast. There's a high demand on X3 in China. There's a high demand on X3 also in Africa, in Japan,
Australia, many countries. It gives you an idea that we have opportunities there.
And this will be seen in the second half of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we, because then, all three production locations are
at a ramp-up line and will deliver to the market. But the reception in China on the auto show, for
example, for the new X3 was very positive.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Stephen. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG of Bankhaus Lampe. Please
go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG `
Yes. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The first quarter of `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we continued to build on our, gentlemen. Also two questions from my side. `First, let's take a closer look at the Group figures. First quarter revenues equaled €22.69 billion. of all, one more follow-
up on the FX and raw material headwinds that you mentioned, Dr. Peter. This number, how much
of that have we already seen in Q1 or is this what is going to impact your revenue or your
earnings in the remaining nine months? Question number one.
And the second question is on e-mobility. Mr. Diess from Volkswagen now has said that they may
be looking into battery cell production again. So far, you have ruled that out for you or do you
think there may be a change for the industry that that might be something that you have to look
at if competition is doing the same thing? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
So, thank you, Christian. We start with Harald and then, Nicolas.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Concerning the questions on the battery cell production, we have long-running contracts already.
We get supply from Asia, as you know, from Korea. We have also – definitely, for our China
`vehicles, our new technology flagship, the BMW iNext; the BMW i4 as a four-door coupé; and the, we get battery cells from China from local partner, CATL. So, we have running contracts.
We have good partners and you probably should be aware as `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, Christian, that there's also
some – the other company already moving to Europe and opening battery production there.
We have highly invested on our own side into the R&D of cell production and cell development
that we know the details on the chemical side, that we know the details on how to pack it and
whatever. So, at BMW, we have focused strategic on having all knowledge on all of these
individual steps, but we have running contracts with our suppliers and that's the current `basis, so that we can make adequate provisions for our business risks at all times..A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Christian, in regarding FX raw material impact in Q1, we've seen an impact in the higher double-
digit area in Q1 `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we. And if you reflect on what we said earlier, on one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, we will see in
the next three quarters a positive impact from our product momentum from, in particular, the X
models and cars like the M5, 8 Series generating strong profitability. On the other `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, we
will continue to have strong headwinds from FX, raw material and increased R&D spending,
overall 8% to 10% EBIT margin.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Christian. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Stuart Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. of Exane BNP Paribas. Please
go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thank you and good afternoon. So, two questions. I mean, one, just revisiting the China JV point
from Patrick and Arndt, because I think maybe you half answered it, but I just – obviously, you want
to continue the relationship with Brilliance, but at different levels of that. So, I wonder what
discussions are there if any and what kind of `capital, free cash flow stood at €302 million. For the full year, we continue to target a free cash could you put to work to increasing that stake
in the Brilliance JV. Is that something you could discuss this year? And just, technically, what
ownership level would you consolidate that, because adding the equity income doesn't really
help anybody, but distorting. But at what stage of ownership could you consolidate that?
And then, the second question, just on the X3 precisely, just on the capacity side, obviously, you
made some changes to the footprint this year adding China and South Africa to the capacity for
the X3. So, I wonder by the end of the year, once those plants are ramped up, what kind of
annualized capacity you expect for the X3 versus the prior model? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. We start with Nicolas and then, Harald, okay.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Stuart, maybe starting with the China joint venture, China, as a country and, we, as a company, we
have a very long-term strategy and we've been very successful with our long-term focused
strategy over the last 15 years. We will continue to develop this partnership. We really appreciate
the guidance given by the Chinese President in the last couple of weeks. This is, from our
perspective, trending exactly in the right direction, but, of course, as you can imagine, it's by far
too early to comment now what might be further developments in the years to come. And so,
this from – regarding China joint venture, but we are optimistic also for `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we, as I stated.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And on the question on the capacity for X3, you can assume a range. I mean as BMW, the
production and manufacturing is very flexible in ramping up and ramping down, but the corridor
of this one can be for the X3 if we have all three manufacturing locations at the production
network full running from 200,000 to 250,000 units, 50,000 in South Africa around about as afigure, and if you think about 100,000 in the United States, 120,000 in China. So, it's a little bit
flexible, but a range up above 200,000 is the figure I could give you.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Stuart. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Harald Hendrikse of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi, guys. It's Harald at Morgan Stanley. Three quick questions if you don't mind. One, rather than
the ownership question, I think it's difficult to gauge what any change in the import taxes in China
may have in terms of elasticity of demand. Can you sort of maybe give me some anecdotes or
some idea of what you think could happen to import sales in China if we do actually have a 10%
or 15% reduction?
And, secondly, in terms of pricing in China, our consumer is already starting to expect those price
reductions and what is that doing to competitive pricing in China? What some of your competitors
are saying is already becoming a very competitive market.
Second question I had, just to clarify some accounting for me, but if we're going to consolidate
other assets, do we not have to consolidate revenue as `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than as EBIT, in which case, I imagine the
impact on margins that's not quite what we were calculating a little bit earlier in this call?
And then, lastly, Financial Services, can you just make some more commentary on Financial
Services? That was the only bit, I think, in the Q1 that was maybe a little bit weaker than we had
expected. Is there any impact on net interest margins from the higher rates or are these further
diesel questions (50:24)?
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Harald. We start with Nicolas and then, Harald.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
So, starting with the change in import taxes in China, Harald, two aspects which are very relevant
regarding this topic. On one `hand, we are clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in side, we have already localized more than 70% of our Chinese
business in China. And this will definitely add additional product and volume and segment share
momentum in China. We are adding now the 6 model with the X3.
If you look at all those discussions related to tariffs, I think the BMW Group is in an extremely
strong position. Why? Because we have a strong production footprint in all three major
geographical parts of the world and we have a very flexible production system. Our number one
factory from pure volume perspective is in the United States in Spartanburg. We have a strong
footprint in China and in Europe, including the UK.Pricing in China, definitely in the Chinese environment, our strong product momentum is
supporting our business and pricing in China. X1 5 Series and the X3, which will be launched in a
couple of weeks from now, will definitely support our positive pricing development in China in the
months to come.
Financial Services, if you look at on the revenue side, Financial Services, if you adjust by currency
effects which we had Financial Services as `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, revenue is slightly up 1.2% or I think, 1.2% to 2%.
And we view in a very, very systematic way the development of residual values and adjust
correspondingly our provisions.
If we look at diesel, in particular, Euro IV and Euro V diesel engines in our leasing portfolio, this will
be fully closed, this topic, by end of this year, we are already below 100,000 – significantly below
100,000 Euro IV and Euro V diesel. In our leasing portfolio, we have hardly any Euro IV and it's
going down month-by-month.
And your last topic was related to the consolidated revenues. The joint venture is at equity in the
financial result, but, of course, the shipment of parts and the loyalties are in the consolidated
revenues.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Perfect answer from our CFO. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Dorothee Cress`well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Dorothee Cress`well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi, there. It's `Dorothee Cress`well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. I was just wondering whether you could tell us a
little bit more about your cost-cutting and efficiency efforts. What measures are you taking? I think
in the past, you've spoken about lower complexity and faster development times. Perhaps you
could also give us some idea of the size, the tailwind from these efforts this year.
And my last question is do you step up those efforts in light of the greater headwind from raw
material and ForEx? Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
So, Dorothee, definitely the two topics you've raised are still of top priority in our daily business.
Reducing complexity is a key focus in all areas starting with research and development, continuingwith production, procurement and having positive impact in sales and marketing, including
Financial Services.
Of course, as you can imagine in a business, in an industry which has development times
between four and five years for a new product, seven years on the market, this is definitely not
like switching on or off the light. But we are very `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than on track to achieve significant improvements
in those areas. And those improvements already supported us also in Q1, as I said in my speech,
to offset part of the negative impacts we had, in particular, from increased R&D spending and
some FX headwinds.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And, Dorothee, and then, one more, BMW has a clear target to be the most efficient one in
production as `well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than as on the material cost side. The past has shown that we made much progress
on these things.
Q - `Dorothee Cress`well, increasing by 3.0%. The strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. I think we have time for one more question, please.
Operator
Thank you. In that case, our next question comes from the line of `Jürgen Pieper, Analyst, B. Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA of Metzler
Capital Markets. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, Analyst, B. Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA
Yeah. Thanks. Two quick ones. `First, let's take a closer look at the Group figures. First quarter revenues equaled €22.69 billion. one is on your headwind FX and raw material headwind
guidance. Is that right that you changed it from the recent Analyst Meeting? Your figure looks a
little higher than a few weeks ago. And if yes, why is that? If I look at the euro/dollar, for example,
that has changed in your favor, I think, over the last couple of weeks.
And second thing on electric cars, I mean you're absolutely right, the growth is nice. You are on
plan, but if I look at the overall market, I think the market for electric cars grew by 60%, 70% over
the past 18 months worldwide. So, your growth doesn't look that impressive if you look at the
overall market and especially, I think, if you look at products below €50,000, your i3, I think, has
lost market share even after the facelift.
So, is that of any importance for you? Do you look at the relative performance or don't you care
in the end and say, okay, 30%, 40% growth even, let's say, for the next two years is just good
enough and we simply don't care and don't look at market shares in that situation?
A - Unverified Participant
Thanks. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Jürgen, starting with the FX and raw material, approximately two-third of the impact I've
mentioned is FX and one third is raw material. Still, we see some negative impact, in particular,that it is right to adjust our forecast in a way we had around €500 million a couple of weeks ago
and now, it's between €500 million and higher three-digit number. Can this improve in the weeks
and the months to come? It can, but this is based on our actual analysis.
Second?
A - Unverified Participant
Yeah. Harald, please. We are following it.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Jürgen, concerning your question about the electric cars, we had, last year, the clear target of
100,000 electrified cars being sold. We delivered that one and that was in our premium
segment, only one another company who was on that level. We were last year clearly the market
leader in Europe if you look at the plug-in hybrids combined with the battery electric `vehicles, our new technology flagship, the BMW iNext; the BMW i4 as a four-door coupé; and the. We
look carefully at those figures, because we would like to ramp up e-mobility, not just with very
good product offers like the iX3, which I've presented in China.
Next year, the MINI Electric will come on the market, because we need these cars on the one side
for the transformation into sustainable mobility and achieving our CO2 targets in 2021. And as I
mentioned before, this is a long-term journey, but we enjoyed the growth figures. I mentioned in
my speech that it was 87% in the U.S. first quarter `2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And, as you know, whatever we compared to first quarter 2017. Just one
example, for example, in California to close off every third 5 Series currently being sold is a 5
Series plug-in hybrid. So, you can see that the strategy is working.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Harald. `Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., Nicolas. `Ladies and gentlemen, these figures underline that our core business is built on a very solid, we are on
time. Thank you for joining us today and we wish you a nice weekend. Bye-bye.