Q3 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Hachisuka from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the fiscal year 2018 third
quarter. I'm `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation. Today,
we have Mr. `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Senior Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Senior Managing Officer, in charge of the Accounting Group
of Toyota Motor Corporation, and Ms. Morita (01:04), our interpreter with us.
The agenda for today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Shirayanagi will briefly discuss
today's earning results. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome
to ask questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page 2 of
today's presentation material, and a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page 3. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Shirayanagi.
`Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Senior Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Senior Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group. It is my pleasure to
discuss Toyota's financial results for the third quarter of the fiscal year, which will end in March
2018.
Let me start with slide 5. Compared to the third quarter of the previous fiscal year, consolidated
vehicle sales increased by 9,000 units to 2.289 million units. This was a result of increased sales in
Japan and other regions, particularly Central and South America.
Please see slide 6. Consolidated financial results for the third quarter of this fiscal year were net
revenues of ¥7,605.7 billion, operating income of ¥673.6 billion, pre-tax income of ¥750.9 billionand net income of ¥941.8 billion. Please note that net income includes the impact of about ¥219
billion from unwinding deferred tax liabilities as a result of the U.S. tax reform.
Now, I would like to hand the rest of this presentation to Ms. Morita (03:38), our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Using slide 7, I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year.
Operating income increased by ¥235.1 billion (sic) [¥235.0 billion], mainly due to the effects of yen
depreciation, cost reduction efforts and marketing activities. Excluding the overall impact of
foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses, operating income improved by ¥5
billion.
As you can see, slide 8 summarizes consolidated financial results for the nine months through
December 2017. And for your information, slide 9 summarizes the major factors which impacted
operating income year-on-year on a nine month-basis.
Next, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region using slide 10 and the
following few slides. Please look at the three-months results on the left-hand side. In Japan,
vehicle sales increased by 18,000 units year-on-year to 552,000 units, as a result of robust sales
of the Roomy, Tank, C-HR, and Camry. Operating income was up ¥259.9 billion year-on-year to
¥471.1 billion, driven by marketing and cost reduction efforts, besides the effect of foreign
exchange rates.
Please see slide 11. In North America, vehicle sales were down 10,000 units year-on-year to
735,000 units. Operating income was ¥27.0 billion, down ¥74.3 billion compared to the third
quarter of the previous fiscal year. This was largely a result of an increase in sales incentive on the
back of rising interest rates and adjustment of residual value assumptions for leases to an
appropriate level, combined with a temporary decline in vehicle production related to the
Camry's switchover.
In Europe, vehicle sales grew by 4,000 units year-on-year to 237,000 units, driven by the C-HR,
the Yaris, and so on. Operating income was up ¥2.4 billion to ¥23.4 billion due to cost reduction
efforts.
Please take a look at slide 13. In Asia, vehicle sales were down 24,000 units year-on-year to
404,000 units, mainly as a result of a decline in vehicle sales due to tightened credit standard for
loans in Indonesia. Operating income was up ¥3.7 billion to ¥122.1 billion (sic) [¥122.0 billion] as a
result of reduced marketing expenses and cost reduction efforts.
Please move on to slide 14. In other regions, overall vehicle sales were up 21,000 units year-on-
year to 361,000 units, driven by Central and South America, and Oceania. Operating income
increased by ¥9.0 billion to ¥34.1 billion, mainly due to the impact of marketing efforts.
Next please, see slide 15 on the operating income for Financial Services. Operating income,
excluding swap valuation gains and losses for the third quarter of this fiscal year was up ¥4.0
billion year-on-year to ¥76.6 billion. This was mostly due to an increase in the lending balance and
a decrease in expenses related to loan losses mainly in North America.
Now, I would like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year. Please look at slide 17.
Our latest forecasts of consolidated vehicle sales for the full fiscal year are 8.95 million units,
unchanged from our previous forecast at the second quarter reporting. By region, our sales plan
has been revised down slightly for Japan and Europe and up for North America.Please see slide 18. We adopt foreign exchange rate assumptions of ¥110 per dollar and ¥130 per
euro from January onwards, which makes the full-year assumptions ¥111 per dollar and ¥129 million
per euro. Based on this, our latest forecasts for consolidated financial performance for the full
fiscal year are net revenues of ¥29 trillion, operating income of ¥2.200 trillion, pre-tax income of
¥2.450 trillion, and net income of ¥2.400 trillion.
Please take a look at slide 19. The latest operating income forecast is up ¥200 billion from the
previous forecast at the second quarter reporting. Excluding the overall impact of foreign
exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses, it is now up ¥130 billion. This reflects
additional contribution anticipated from profit improvement activities such as cost reduction,
marketing efforts, and reduction of expenses.
Next, please see slide 20. And year-on-year comparison shows the latest operating income
forecast for this fiscal year represents an improvement of ¥205.7 billion. Excluding the overall
impact of foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses, however, it is still the case
of ¥55 billion deterioration. Until the end of this fiscal year, we will continue to pursue activities to
improve profits further.
Please look at slide 21. As has been communicated since May, our focus for this fiscal year is on
thoroughly enhancing our competitiveness. In order to realize a future mobility society, we have
been further accelerating our initiatives, including alliances with other companies and
development of new technologies in areas of electrification, automated driving, and MaaS.
With respect to initiatives to make ever better cars in cooperation with suppliers, we are
enhancing our product appeal and cost competitiveness through TNGA. Further, we have been
focusing on maintaining the foundation of Toyota's competitiveness, namely manufacturing
excellence and skill transfer. Executive Vice President, Mitsuru Kawai, explained our activities in
those areas in the press conference. Please see the presentation, which has been posted on our
website.
And this concludes my presentation. Thank you very much for your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you, Mr. Shirayanagi and Ms. Morita (11:15). Now, we will gladly take your questions, but only
up to two questions per person, please. Further question may be possible later if time allows. You
don't have to name yourself. Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Hachisuka. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
(12:19). My first question is on your forecast for the analysis of consolidated operating income in
regard to expenses. The change in expenses is zero in your forecast, but when you look at the
details, there's an item just non-specified expenses, which is now plus ¥135 billion. In your initial
forecast at the beginning of the year, it was minus, the same item, ¥35 billion, so there's a big
difference. And I just wondered if you could give us the breakdown for these non-specified
expenses.
And the second question is just on the general outlook for profitability in North America,
specifically in regard to the development of incentives and also in regard to the fleet exposure,
because there's concern about the impact on profitability in North America? Thank you.Thank you very much. With respect to the reduction in expenses, in general, the unspecified
expense change is stated to be zero. However, looking at the individual items, there seems to be
a major change, and here we see quality-related expenses, labor expenses, depreciation, R&D
expenses, and other expenses. And this other expenses represent ¥135 billion in the positive,
which represents a major increase.
And if I may just give you the breakdown of that number, the quality-related expenses, plus, that
is positive ¥210 billion; expenses in general, plus ¥25 billion; and other expenses, minus ¥100
billion. And this minus ¥100 billion is furthermore broken down into the expenses relating to new
model switchover and, more specifically, the expenses or costs of dyes in relation to that as well
as increase in production preparation expenses.
Let me move on to my response to your second question, developments of incentives. The
passenger car models overall are having uphill battle due to higher interest rates and also the
adjustment of residual price levels of leased vehicles toward the appropriate level and those
resulted in incentives moving to a relatively high level. I would like to refrain from mentioning
specific amounts of incentives for specific models.
But as a result of those compared with the previous year, incentives per unit increased by $600
per unit. And overall on the full year basis, the overall amount of incentives, the aggregate
amount, is going to be ¥140 billion and of that, ¥110 billion relates to higher interest rates and also
the adjustment of residual value assumptions toward an appropriate level. Going forward,
watching very closely the market developments and developments of interest rates and in line
with those, we intend to control incentives at an appropriate level.
Moving on to the fleet exposure and also the North American profitability outlook is the next part.
With respect to fleet exposure, generally speaking, Toyota's percentage of fleet sales has been
around 10% approximately. The actual result for last year was 8%. However, January this year
stood at relatively high level of 14% accounted for by fleet business. However, January is a month,
seasonally speaking, that the fleet ratio tend to be high in normal years. And therefore, I do not
consider this year's actual result for January to be especially high.
Moving on to the North American profitability outlook, the situation remains – we are still
examining and calculating the specific number and, therefore, there is no specific figure that I can
share with you at this juncture. But let me just say that situation of our profitability remains rather
difficult, which is unchanged from the previous assessment.
However, there has been supply improvement of trucks and also SUVs and with the introduction
of attractive new models, especially Avalon, and continued cost improvement efforts, we are
pursuing every avenue for profit improvement activities. And so, we are likely to see
improvement starting in the current fiscal year in terms of a profitability foundation. And especially
given the fact that North American One Toyota activities have been going on since April, this
would result in company-wide united efforts for profitability improvement.
That's great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Thank you very much for the call. First of all, just on the tax side, could you give us some moreongoing tax rate to be post the changes in the U.S. corporate rate?
First of all, as a result of the unwinding of deferred tax liabilities, the tax expenses this time
around decreased by ¥290 billion. This deferred tax liability and benefit here is one-shot benefit.
However, next fiscal year and beyond, there are some continuing factors, including reduction in
corporate tax rate and also the immediate depreciation of capital investments, as well as tax
credits on testing and experiments conducted. And those items would continue to generate
benefits in the future fiscal years.
In terms of concrete tax rates to be applied since we have not been able to complete the
calculation of a potential profit, I would like to refrain from answering that aspect of your question
in this conference call.
Great. Thank you. And just a second question on different area, just in terms of cost reductions,
could you provide us the split between raw materials and direct cost cuts for Q3 and for your new
fiscal year target as a whole, please?
So, let me give you the concrete numbers both on gross basis and net basis for cost reduction in
the third quarter. First of all, the cost reduction activities generates ¥80 billion and the market-
related expenses, that is to say the increase – the impact of higher raw materials expenses,
negative ¥45 billion.
On the fiscal year basis, the increase in raw materials expenses and market-related commodity
expenses, negative ¥200 billion and the gross-based cost improvement benefits, ¥340 billion.
And then after next fiscal year, we'll consider and also put into implementation our activities to
generate, on the gross basis, cost savings of over ¥300 billion.
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Operator
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hello. It's `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Can you hear me?
A - Operator
Yes, we can.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
I just wanted to follow up on the raw material question, and I apologize if I missed it in the
prepared remarks. But I'm just curious as you look at sort of the rise in the raw material complex,
particularly steel, what kind of headwinds do you think you're facing over the next 12 months, and
how much of that will be absorbed by Toyota and how much of that can be absorbed by the
supply base?
A - Operator
In terms of steel materials, there has been increase in the raw materials, in general, iron ore andin the process of negotiating with suppliers of those materials and, therefore, allow me to refrain
from giving a specific answer on this question.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Second question about the U.S. truck market, specifically around mid-size pickups and with
the entrance of the Ford Ranger and the resurgence of the GM Colorado and Canyon, I'm just
curious how competitive the mid-size pickup truck market has gotten from a pricing standpoint.
And then, also on trucks, is there any potential of bringing back the FJ Cruiser as it seems like that
sort of specialty off-road capable truck is actually fairly strong right now as evidenced by the
Wrangler success?
A - Operator
I don't have the comparative information on specific products, but last year, North America, the
truck ratio in the total new car market was 64.4%, which represented an increase year-on-year of
3.8%. In the case of Toyota, 58.3% of our new vehicles sold was accounted for by trucks and the
truck ratio increased by 5.1%, which exceeds the increase in the truck ratio of North American
market overall. And therefore, I believe we do have a competitive edge in this area.
At the same time, those models such as Tacomas and Highlanders, for which we have been
suffering from a tight supply situation, we now have expanded the supply capability of those high-
demand models. And therefore, we intend to aggressively expand our sales of those models.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
So, two questions. The first is just on the quality expense. Can you just help us think how much
more unwinding there is to go on the quality expense?
And the second question, I think you just mentioned that the gross cost reduction efforts this year
is going to be ¥340 billion. And going forward, I think you said, you alluded to that, it may be
above ¥300 billion. And I'm just curious, if I look at historically a few years on the gross cost
reduction, it's kind of been hovering around ¥300 billion. Is there something structurally that
changed that you think that, going forward, the cost reduction efforts is going to be above ¥300
billion?
First of all, with respect to quality-related expenses, there has been improvement of ¥75 billion
this fiscal year compared with the previous fiscal year. And to start with, with respect to the
quality-related expenses, we have been estimating the likely amount for the current fiscal year
based upon the actual results for the past year.
Some of the factors behind this improvement or reduction is, first of all, the field fix-related
expenses themselves have come down.
The second factor was the number of cases of field fixes was smaller than what had been
anticipated.As for the future outlook, of course, there is nothing that I can say generalizing the situation. But
in the process of developing TNGA, we thoroughly focused on quality improvement and made
measures in that area. And therefore, as the number of new models based upon TNGA increases
going forward, I expect the number of cases of field fix to come down.
In terms of the amount of cost improvement efforts, we have been more or less continuing to
generate savings of around ¥300 billion over the years.
Considering the investments that we have to make for the future, investment in the development
of automated driving system, electrification or connectivity, we believe that we must develop our
own capability of cost savings, which will exceed what we have been able to achieve in the past.
And therefore, to that end, last year we started up new initiatives for cost reduction. First of all,
we started the second phase of TNGA. In addition to that, we initiated what we call RRCI. Those
are the third round of cost reduction activities that we work with suppliers.
Right now, we are thoroughly re-benchmarking specific items and considering whether or not the
scenario that we have been working on in this area need to be revised or not.
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Hi. Thank you. I wondered if you could simply provide us with a split between the volume and mix
effects. I think you showed them as one line item. Wondered if you could just split those up for
me, please, between firstly for Q3 and also for the new company estimate (39:47).
As for the third quarter, the benefits of volume are ¥5 billion and model mix, ¥55 billion.
Our full year outlook shows the negative ¥15 billion for volume and negative ¥25 billion for model
mix.
Thank you. And could I just ask you a question specifically on Europe? Last quarter, you showed
very good growth and you had a big increase to your fiscal year targets for volume in Europe, and
things – you seem to be getting real traction. I just noticed this quarter, it seems things have
slowed and you've cut back again slightly on the volume. I just wondered what's led to the
change in momentum within Europe.
In Europe, hybrid models remain extremely strong, including C-HR. And in terms of the plan or
outlook compared with the previous fiscal year, we are estimating 35,000 units increase.
And, therefore, I do not believe that there has been any change in the momentum there.
Okay. Thank you. Sorry, could I just clarify again my one other question? What was so positive for
mix in Q3?
In terms of individual model, a major contribution was made by the startup of LS; that is flagship
Lexus model.
Thank you.A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Okay. Thank you. It seems there are no more questions. So, this concludes today's conference
call now. If you require further information, please contact our IR representatives in New York or
London. Thank you very much for joining us today. Goodbye.