Q1 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning, and good afternoon. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's Q1
Results Analyst Conference Call. Before I hand over the call to `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director of AstraZeneca, I'd
like to read the Safe Harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. And by their very nature,
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty and results may differ materially from
those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The company undertakes no
obligation to update forward-looking statements. There'll be an opportunity to ask questions
after today's presentations.
Now, I'll hand you over to AstraZeneca where the call is about to start.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello, everyone. It's `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director here, CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to our first quarter results
conference call and our webcast for investors and analysts. We are here in London on a very
beautiful day for the Annual General Meeting this afternoon. We have people on the phone and
on the webcast. The presentation is available to you on astrazeneca.com as always for you to
download.
Please turn to slide 2. This is the Safe Harbor. Please turn to slide 3. We plan to spend about 30
minutes around the presentation today and then leave plenty of time for Q&A. For those on the
phone, you can get into queue by pressing star 1. There is also an option to ask questions online
as part of the webcast. As we would like to provide everyone with an opportunity to askquestions, please limit yourselves to one question each in the first round. Thank you very much in
advance.
So, today I'm joined as always by Dave Fredrickson, our Executive Vice President for the Oncology
Business Unit; `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical, our EVP for Global Products and Portfolio Strategy, Medical `Affairs, and Corporate Affairs and
Corporate `Affairs, and Corporate Affairs; `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, our CFO; and `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical, our EVP for Global Medicines
Development and our Chief Medical Officer.
Please turn to slide 4. This is the agenda where we will cover all the key aspects of our first
quarter announcement today, and if you want to turn to slide 5, please. So, now we are onto the
highlights. We've been making comments on our financial performance using core reporting
metrics and at constant exchange rate, CER, which are both non-GAAP measures. All numbers we
refer to million U.S. dollars and growth rates would be at CER, unless we otherwise state.
So, our product sales overall declined by 2%, as anticipated. The strong performance by the
newer medicine up 66% and by China was offset by the tail of the loss of exclusivity on Crestor in
the EU and in Japan that started impacting us last year, and also about 2% negative impact from
divestments overall. In general, there are many moving parts in the sales line, as you digest the
loss of exclusivity masking underlying performance.
As implied by my comments, the second quarter may look quite a bit like the first quarter, and
product sales growth will therefore be weighted towards the second half of the year as
comparisons ease. Total revenue declined by 9%, reflecting lower initial externalization revenue,
while the pipeline of opportunities remain intact. The key here is that we are very excited by the
new medicines and their launch trajectories. This newer medicines collectively delivered more
than $0.4 billion in additional sales versus Q1 2017 and they grew by 66%.
Oncology was up by 33%, driven by Lynparza, Tagrisso and Imfinzi that are all performing very
well and we'll come back to that later. New CVRM, Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism, was up
by 8% and Brilinta is growing by 24%, Farxiga by 39%, so both doing very well. Respiratory was
6% lower, essentially impacted by Symbicort's competitive environment and also by a supply
delay in China that impacted Pulmicort and is resolved in the meantime.
So, on the other hand, we had a very strong start for Fasenra in Respiratory that we launched it in
the U.S. in asthma and we also launched in Germany and are rolling out to other markets. Finally,
the emerging markets continued to grow at high single-digit, driven by China that grew by 22%
and for the first time passed the $1 billion mark in the quarter; fantastic result in China for Q1.
Core EPS was at $0.48, reflecting the Crestor impact in the EU and Japan, but also the
investment we have to make in launching all these products. We have six launches underway, and
also the investment in China as we continue to fuel our growth there. At the same time, we
remain committed to our productivity improvements and our total core operating expenses were
down by 1%. Our guidance remains unchanged and it's supported by the performance of the
newer medicines in the quarter.
And finally, a few days ago we took further steps in creating a more focused pharma-sized
biopharmaceutical company with the divestment of Seroquel in some international markets. We
remain fully committed to our strategy and increasing focus on our three main therapy areas of
Oncology, CVRM and Respiratory. However, without being too specific, there are still some
medicines left in AstraZeneca that may fit and perform a lot better in another company and we
will keep you updated during the year on new agreements.With this, let's look at the pipeline of potential new medicines. If you turn to slide 6, we continued
to make progress with our pipeline that is aiding the transformation of AstraZeneca. Lynparza
tablets received a broad EU label in ovarian cancer and breast cancer, the breast cancer
submission was accepted also in the EU.
Tagrisso started to receive the first approvals in the first-line setting. We got the approval first in
Brazil which really was a great success by our Brazilian team, followed by the U.S. In the EU, we
received a positive opinion and we are awaiting approval later this quarter. Getting Tagrisso's
unprecedented benefit to patients in the first-line setting remains a top priority for all of us.
This priority also goes for Imfinzi, which was approved and launched in the U.S. also with
significant patient benefit in the earlier unresectable Stage III setting of lung cancer. EU and
Japan, regulatory decisions are expected in the second half of the year. The combination of
Imfinzi and tremelimumab did not show any significant benefit on the primary endpoints in the
third-line PDL1-low or negative lung cancer setting in the ARCTIC trial.
However, while the Imfinzi monotherapy sub-study A was not powered for statistical significance,
Imfinzi showed a clinically-meaningful reduction in the risk of death compared to chemotherapy in
this setting. Last in Oncology, moxetumomab's first Biologics License Application was filed,
accepted and received priority review in the U.S. for third-line hairy cell leukemia, and selumetinib
received Orphan Drug Designation.
In CVRM, Forxiga was accepted for review in the EU in type-1 diabetes as an add-on to insulin, and
Lokelma received a first regulatory approval. And finally, in Respiratory, Fasenra didn't meet the
primary endpoint in the first of two trials in COPD. We are now awaiting the second trial for firm
conclusion on the utility of Fasenra in that disease.
Please turn to slide 7. I will now review our important sales performance as we return AstraZeneca
to growth in 2018. First of all, on total product sales, the first quarter was down by 2%, as I said
before, and it was impacted by the tail of the loss of exclusivity for Crestor in the EU and Japan.
We lost Crestor in the U.S. last year, as we know; still a little impact in the U.S. this year, but mostly
Japan and the EU. We expect this impact to continue in the second quarter, but then it should
ease in the second half of the year, and so the comparison then would become easier.
It also goes for the impact from divestments, in particular, the divestment of the local anesthetics
business last year. As is visible after the first quarter, we have many opportunities to support our
return to sales growth in 2018, including the newer medicines that are important to the future of
AstraZeneca: Lynparza, Tagrisso, Imfinzi, Brilinta, Farxiga and Fasenra. The major offset is the tail
of the impact from the loss of exclusivity for Crestor, as you know. We, therefore, can reconfirm
our guidance of low single-digit growth in product sales in 2018.
If you turn to slide 8, as we mentioned last quarter, we will focus sales reporting on the main
therapy areas going forward and this is how they performed during the first quarter. Oncology
was above $1 billion for the quarter and it grew by 33%. This is probably the fastest-growing
diversified oncology business of any company and we are now making up one-quarter of our
total business in Oncology.
New CVRM, excluding Crestor, is made up of Brilinta in diabetes and also soon Lokelma and in
the future roxadustat, and together they grew by 8% to almost $1 billion per quarter. Respiratory
was down 6%, reduced by the competitive environment for Symbicort and the timing of U.S.
government orders, but we are encouraged by the launch of Fasenra, which has taken significant
market share already.Other medicines were down by 19%, reflecting the loss of exclusivity for Crestor in EU and Japan,
and the divestments. This line will remain in some decline as we focus all our efforts on the main
therapy areas. Emerging markets continued their strong performance with 8% growth and China,
in particular, grew by 22% to a record of more than $1 billion in the quarter. It's really pleasing to
see China performing so well, and I would like to offer my sincere thank you to the China team
who are making this possible and the benefit they bring to patients in China.
Please turn to slide 9. As I said before, newer medicines delivered an extra $0.4 billion in the first
quarter and they grew by 66%. Tagrisso there was the main contributor followed by Farxiga,
Imfinzi, Lynparza and Brilinta. We will continue to monitor how our newer medicines are doing,
both looking back at sales, but also looking forward at leading indicators.
Please turn to slide 10. Looking at a few specific examples of launches, and we selected those
three leading indicators from our U.S. business and how it is returning to growth. In Oncology, the
new patient starts for Imfinzi show a very exciting trend and are accelerating after the formal U.S.
approval in unresectable Stage III cancer. Physicians are excited to bring the proven (12:51) benefit
of Imfinzi to their patients with an earlier non-metastatic stage of lung cancer, and our team there
is doing a brilliant job.
In CVRM, Bydureon's new injection device, BCise, has helped Bydureon increase its new-to-brand
prescriptions. Actually for the first time in several years, we are pleased to now offer U.S. patients
a convenient device to treat type-2 diabetes, also a great job by our diabetes team.
And finally in Respiratory, another great result really by our team there. Fasenra is off to a very
encouraging start and already gaining market share of new patients compared to other available
medicine targeting the IL-5 pathway in severe eosinophilic asthma. In fact, in new prescriptions,
we are the leader in the IL-5 class already.
In summary, we are very encouraged by this positive impact made by the newer medicines in the
three main TAs, as they underpin the guidance of returning to growth in product sales in 2018.
I will now hand over to Dave and Mark to cover other important aspects of product sales. So, if
you want to turn to slide 11 and Dave will now take us through the Oncology TA.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Great. Thank you so much, Pascal, and I'm really pleased to be here today to update all of you on
the performance of our new generation of medicines. I'll start first with Oncology and then I'll
hand over to `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical for a summary of CVRM, Respiratory and emerging markets.
If we could turn, please, to page 12. We are really pleased to announce that total Oncology grew
by 33% quarter-over-quarter and now represents a quarter of total product sales for
AstraZeneca. We've now delivered four of the six new oncology medicines that we set out an
ambition to deliver by 2020, and we really see that all four of these medicines are contributing to
the growth of $300 million in additional sales versus the first quarter of 2017.
We see continued growth from Lynparza and Tagrisso and very importantly, Imfinzi truly has
realized an inflection point as we've launched in the United States with the approval of the Stage
III unresectable PACIFIC indication. We continue to see encouraging uptake in Calquence as we
prepare for the larger CLL indication, with data starting to come next year. And it is worth
highlighting, though I won't speak about it anymore in the presentation, that other oncology
medicines are still growing at 1%, which is mainly driven by the label extensions for Faslodex.If we could turn, please, to slide 13. Now turning to Lynparza, we've now seen three quarters of
strong growth. And for the quarter, we grew by 100% over the same quarter of last year with
total global sales of now $119 million. This is with strong growth across all regions, U.S., Europe,
and emerging markets, as we continue to roll out the broader label in ovarian cancer, tablet and
the breast indication in the U.S.
U.S. sales were $66 million in the quarter, up 144%, which was driven by increase in demand from
the all-comers label in the second-line ovarian cancer, as well as from the breast cancer indication.
As you would expect, we see the majority of use in ovarian cancer, but there is emerging use in
breast; together, they make up about 80% to 85% of the total sales in Lynparza. Lynparza was
the leading medicine in the PARP inhibitor class in the U.S., as measured by total prescription
volumes.
European sales were robust at $42 million, up 44% versus the prior year, and this reflects our
effort and emphasis on driving testing rates and it's boosted by additional launches across
several markets that hadn't yet come online. We are really pleased to have the broader EU
ovarian label now included too as of last week in Europe.
In markets outside the U.S. and Europe, Lynparza has just this month launched in Japan. And so
while not in the first quarter numbers, early signs of launch are promising and we'll have more to
update on that in our next call. Finally, the Merck alliance continues to progress nicely and we look
forward to an exciting year of delivery of what we believe is the leading PARP inhibitor.
Please turn to slide 14. Now, we'll talk about our medicines within the lung cancer portfolio and
beginning with Tagrisso. Tagrisso had strong performance again across all markets with 89%
growth in the quarter, resulting in $338 million in sales, and this has been primarily driven by
second-line demand and higher testing rates. Tagrisso is now the largest product within our
Oncology portfolio.
U.S. and EU exhibited strong growth with sales of $147 million and $69 million, respectively, and
this is really as a result of being established as the clear standard of care in second-line at this
point. Japan did experience a softer quarter, mainly due to the mandatory expiration of a testing
program, which resulted in testing rates going down and also in a decline in bolus patients in the
late-line, but we look for this to turn around with the near-term catalyst of the front-line FLAURA
approval, which is expected later this year.
We're excited that we can announce that front-line FLAURA was approved in Brazil and then in
the U.S., which we believe will further drive sales as we already have seen some contribution of
this to sales, not only from our launch, but also following the NCCN compendia listing from last
year. We continue to build on the EGFR lung cancer opportunity, where we believe that we are
truly leaders in the science and in the space. We've kicked off a trial in locally-advanced patients,
called LAURA for Tagrisso, which will address unmet need in earlier disease as we hope to truly
bend the survival curve for patients with this terrible disease.
If we could turn now to slide 15. We really have had an encouraging start to Imfinzi. It was
approved for the U.S. with the PACIFIC indication for unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung on
the 19th of February. This has resulted in a true inflection point for Imfinzi with sales now of $62
million in the first quarter and really the overwhelming majority of these coming from the lung
cancer indication.
As you saw from a slide that Pascal showed in February when we launched, we had about 3,500
patient infusions per month, and you could see that we've now doubled in the most recentthe driver of these sales. Initial feedback from the launch has been very positive from physicians
and from patients alike, though lots of educational effort remains as we need to ensure that we
continue to drive treatment rates post-CRT and bring awareness into this setting where
previously there hadn't been any alternatives available.
Please turn to slide 16. Lastly, I'd like to talk about our hematology franchise and I'd like to
highlight the good start that we've made with the launch of Calquence. We hope that this is the
first of a much broader platform that we look to build upon in years to come, including our
potential fifth new oncology medicine, moxetumomab, which Pascal mentioned briefly and Sean
will talk about a bit more.
Calquence continues to perform well with sales of $8 million in the first quarter in the fast-to-
market, second-line relapsed/ recurrent mantle cell lymphoma indication. We now see about one
quarter of new patients starting on Calquence within this setting, and we look forward to the
chronic lymphocytic leukemia data readouts, which we expect to start from 2019. As mentioned,
moxetumomab is our first potential antibody drug conjugate and we look forward to the
regulatory decision in the third quarter for this niche, but high unmet need disease of hairy cell
leukemia.
With this, I turn it over to Mark.
`Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Thanks, Dave. Now moving to new CVRM which, as Pascal mentioned, is defined as our medicines
in cardiovascular, renal and metabolic diseases. Sales were up by 8%, despite the intense
competition with first quarter sales at $900 million. Farxiga and Brilinta continue to remain strong
with double-digit growth across all regions; Brilinta sales of $293 million with 24% growth, driven
by the U.S. at 32% and emerging markets at 20%, and Farxiga delivered sales of $299 million in
the quarter with 39% growth and Farxiga maintained volume market share leadership globally
with a 41% share.
Farxiga growth of 32% in the U.S. exceeding SGLT2 class growth; however, we are seeing some
slowdown in the SGLT2 class growth and we're looking forward to the DECLARE results in the
second half of this year. Ex-U.S. where we have 58% of our global sales for Forxiga, we've been
seeing encouraging performances. For example, in Brazil, Forxiga is the number one innovative
oral diabetes medicine.
Turning back to the U.S. and the fast-growing GLP-1 market, our autoinjector, Bydureon BCise,
continues to perform well, as Pascal mentioned. Importantly, roughly half the patients are new
GLP-1 patients going onto Bydureon BCise, and a third have been switched from the Bydureon
Pen.
Please turn to slide 18. Now turning to Respiratory, as Pascal mentioned, sales continued to see
challenges in the quarter with an overall sales decline of 6%. For Symbicort, product sales were
down by 12% with the U.S. particularly adversely affected in part due to phasing of government
purchases. We anticipate the U.S. price compression to remain with moderate easing throughout
the year. Globally, Symbicort volume is holding steady with some growth in the U.S. in end
demand. Overall, sales growth in emerging markets was held back by a delay in releasing
Pulmicort supply in China, which we have addressed, and Symbicort delivered growth of 10% in
the quarter.
Please turn to slide 19. Fasenra, as you saw, is off to a strong start and we're very happy with the
initial launch, which has been consistent with our expectations given its highly competitive clinicalprofile. The success has also been supported by our strong pre-launch preparation, which was
enabled by a dedicated team staffed with highly experienced respiratory and biologic sales
colleagues that were able to hit the ground running.
We also put in place an industry-leading support program to help patients and physicians gain
reimbursement for Fasenra as quickly as possible for the patients that needed it. Fasenra
reported sales of $21 million in the quarter, resulting mainly from the U.S. launch at the end of last
year. We look forward to Japan and the other markets that are launching, as we speak, coming on
board the next quarter.
Please turn to slide 20. Emerging markets continue to track in line with our long-term
performance target with 8% sales growth in the quarter. China delivered strong performance with
22% growth and a record of over $1 billion of sales in the quarter for the first time. China
benefited from the addition of more medicines to the National Reimbursement Drug List last
year and the launch of Tagrisso.
Outside China, we saw the impact from divestments and general economic conditions,
specifically in Russia where the business was impacted by lower healthcare spend. Finally, there
was strong performance across our core therapeutic areas in emerging markets, with Oncology
up 36%, Respiratory up 5% and new CVRM up 30%. And although we missed the China National
Reimbursement Drug List timing update for Forxiga, we've added already a number of provincial
reimbursement lists and are very pleased with the launch so far in China for Forxiga.
And with this, I'll hand over to Marc.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Mark, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes taking you
through our financial performance in the first quarter of the year, as well as our unchanged
guidance.
Please turn to slide 22. As usual, I will begin with reported P&L before turning to the core
numbers. As Pascal mentioned earlier, product sales declined by 2%, impacted by the reduced
sales of Crestor in Europe and Japan. The effect of the divestment of medicine in prior periods,
such as anesthetics also reduced our product sales by about 2%. But as you heard earlier, we
delivered especially promising performances in China and right across our Oncology medicine.
As implied by my comments and while we do not guide on a quarterly basis, the second quarter
may look a bit like the first quarter and product sales growth will therefore be weighted towards
the second half of the year as comparisons ease. The lower level of initial externalization revenue
this year meant that total externalization revenue declined by 67% in the quarter, despite the
inclusion of a $70 million milestone receipt for Merck for the approval in breast cancer for
Lynparza. The performance of our top line was in line with our expectation, and so I am keeping
my guidance for product sales unchanged.
Please turn to slide 23. Turning now to the core P&L, our gross margin ratio for the year fell, as
expected, by 4 percentage point to 78.8%, driven primarily by the positive impact of
manufacturing variances in quarter one 2017 and the inclusion of the profit share with Merck. The
decline in the sales of Crestor also had an impact.
Total core operating expenses declined by 1%, the result of our continued focus on cost
discipline. Core R&D costs were reduced by 12%. We did, however, see an uplift in core SG&A
cost in the quarter, driven by some specific factors, which I will talk about in a moment. Core otheroperating income declined by 64%, a result of the timing of our divestment this year. The core
tax was 18%, in line with the indication of a full year core tax range of 16% to 20%.
Please turn to slide 24. Looking at externalization revenue in more detail, there was a reduced
level of initial externalization revenue, which led to the overall decline year-on-year. By nature,
there will never be a smooth and even pattern of agreements and receipt, but I want to be clear
that we expect a significant level of externalization revenue this year, including from Merck. We
remain committed to focusing on appropriate cash-generating and value-accretive agreements,
given the productivity of our pipeline. We're also committed to the continued management of our
portfolio divestment and to increasing the focus on our three main therapy area over time.
Please turn to slide 25. We made further progress on our cost discipline in the quarter. As I
mentioned earlier, total core operating expenses fell by 1%, despite the investment in the
launches. Core R&D costs fell by 12%. Despite maintaining a high level of activity level, we saw the
benefit of productivity initiative and efficiencies and there was also support from the Merck
collaboration cost sharing agreement.
Investment in our business remain one of our capital allocation priorities, and we are enjoying the
benefit of more targeted investment in our pipeline. I continue to anticipate a stable to low
single-digit decline in core R&D this year. Core SG&A cost increased by 6%, reflecting investment
in the launches and in China.
It is worth noting that quarter one 2017 saw one of the lowest level of core SG&A spend in many
years, and core SG&A declined sequentially from quarter four 2017 into quarter one 2018. I
currently anticipate a further significant year-on-year uplift in core SG&A cost in the second
quarter, but I want to reiterate our expectation of a low- to mid-single-digit percentage increase
in core SG&A cost over the full year.
Please turn to slide 26. And I'd like to conclude with the reiteration of our 2018 guidance which is
on product sales and core EPS. We anticipate low single-digit percentage growth in product sales
for 2018 at constant exchange rates. The growth is significantly weighted towards the second half
and we expect the pressures on product sales seen in quarter one to continue in quarter two.
This pattern particularly reflects the first-half impact of generic competition to Crestor in Europe
and Japan.
I continue to anticipate the sum of the externalization revenue and other operating income to be
less than that in 2017. We also anticipate a core EPS of $3.30 to $3.50 at constant exchange rates.
With the financial performance in line with our expectation, as well as success of our pipeline in
newer medicine, I'm confident in our ability to deliver against what are unchanged and consistent
capital allocation priorities.
With that, I will hand over to Sean.
`Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Thank you, Marc. I would now like to run through the late-stage pipeline events since the last
results announcement and highlights of recent data presentations at medical meetings. And as
usual, I will finish with a look at our upcoming news flow.
Please turn to slide 28. We delivered more good progress in the quarter in Oncology. Lynparza
received EU approval for a broad second-line ovarian cancer indication with a tablet formulation,
while we also received submission acceptance for breast cancer. Tagrisso received the important
U.S. approval for first-line EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer and also received submissionacceptance in the EU. In hematology, moxetumomab's submission was accepted by the FDA and
granted priority review for an intended indication in third-line hairy cell leukemia.
On the data front, we announced that the ARCTIC trial of Imfinzi plus tremelimumab in third-line
non-small cell lung cancer did not meet the primary endpoints of PFS and OS in patients with PDL1
low or negative tumors, but as discussed in the announcement. The Imfinzi monotherapy sub-
study A, while it was not powered for statistical significance, showed a clinically-meaningful
reduction in the risk of death compared to chemotherapy.
Continuing on data, we presented the ovarian cancer cohort from the MEDIOLA trial, and
Lynparza plus Imfinzi was demonstrated to be well tolerated. Response rate was greater than
70% within the entire cohort and for patients with one prior line of therapy, the response rate was
77%. Following the data presentation, we announced plans for a Phase III trial of Lynparza plus
Imfinzi in ovarian cancer. There are more details for you in today's results announcement.
At AACR and ELCC in April, we also shared overall survival data for Lynparza in breast cancer and
data from both our ATR and ATM inhibitors in Phase II. In I-O combo, the second-line cohort of
Study 006 in non-small cell lung cancer was presented with Study 10 in bladder cancer. We also
presented data for Tagrisso from the FLAURA Phase III trial looking at patients after progression,
which continued to emphasize Tagrisso's impressive efficacy and safety.
Please turn to slide 29. Staying in Oncology and continuing our momentum, at ASCO this year we
will be sharing key data across our Oncology portfolio. We are pleased to have more than 90
abstracts, 14 oral presentations and 7 Best of ASCO designations. From our DNA Damage
Response portfolio, we will share Phase II results from our Study 8 trial in prostate cancer where
we combine Lynparza and abiraterone.
Further on Lynparza combinations, we will share results of Lynparza combined with vistusertib in
ovarian cancer and triple-negative breast cancer. In addition, we will also present data for other
potential new medicines focused on DNA Damage Response, including data from a Phase II trial
of our highly selective oral AKT inhibitor capivasertib in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.
In Immuno-Oncology, we will have additional Imfinzi monotherapy data, including safety data from
the PACIFIC trial in unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung cancer and updated Phase II results in
third-line non-small cell lung cancer from the ATLANTIC trial. Further, we will show Imfinzi
monotherapy data from Study 1108, this time in gastrointestinal cancers and small cell lung cancer.
As for Imfinzi combination with tremelimumab, we will have Phase I data in non-small cell lung
cancer from Study 006 and Cohort C, which are I-O pre-treated patients, and other data in
gastrointestinal cancers and small cell lung cancer from their dedicated combo trials and then in
mesothelioma, which is in combination with chemotherapy.
In hematology, Calquence results from Phase I/II trial in Waldenström's macroglobulinemia will be
presented, as will data from moxetumomab pasudotox in relapsed or refractory hairy cell
leukemia. There are other data points as well, including selumetinib in neurofibromatosis type 1,
an orphan disease, and we hope many of you can join us at our ASCO investor event on Monday,
June 4 in Chicago.
Please turn to slide 30. In CVRM, we received EU approval for Lokelma. The combination of
Bydureon plus insulin in type-2 diabetes also received U.S. FDA approval. For Forxiga, the EU
accepted our regulatory submission for the treatment in type-1 diabetes, a potential new use of
the medicine.Staying on Farxiga, CVD-REAL 2 was presented and was consistent with CVD-REAL 1, which was
presented last year. In CVD-REAL 2, more than 400,000 patients across five countries were
treated with SGLT2 inhibitors. The data was analyzed with 75% of these patients receiving Farxiga.
The analysis demonstrated that the treatment with an SGLT2 inhibitor was associated with a
lower risk of all-cause death, lower risk of hospitalization for heart failure, lower risk of myocardial
infarction, and lower risk of stroke. As a reminder, the DECLARE Phase III cardiovascular outcomes
trial is on track for top-line data in the second half, and the primary endpoints include
hospitalization for heart failure.
Please turn to slide 31. I want to conclude by highlighting some of the upcoming news flow. For
Lynparza, we soon anticipate first-line data in ovarian cancer with potential regulatory submission
in the second half. Following the U.S. approval on breast cancer, we expect regulatory decision in
Japan during the second half and regulatory decision in the EU next year. For Tagrisso, in the first-
line setting, we anticipate regulatory decisions in EU this quarter and Japan in the second half.
Moving to Immuno-Oncology, we anticipate EU and Japan regulatory decisions for the PACIFIC
trial in unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung cancer in the second half. Further in lung cancer,
we expect data readout for MYSTIC in the second half with NEPTUNE now coming in 2019. In head
and neck cancer, we expect data from the KESTREL first-line and EAGLE second-line trial in the
second half. Our first-line bladder cancer trial, DANUBE, will have a data readout in 2019.
In CVRM, the Phase III DECLARE trial will be available later this year. We anticipate a regulatory
submission for Bydureon's autoinjector in the EU in the second half. And as communicated by our
partner FibroGen, we now anticipate data for roxadustat in the second half and regulatory
submission to follow in 2019.
In Respiratory, our regulatory submission for PT010 in COPD is expected in the second half.
Staying in COPD, we announced that Fasenra did not meet the primary endpoint in the first
COPD trial GALATHEA, but we expect the second trial TERRANOVA to report this quarter, which
will further inform our plans. Finally, we expect data from anifrolumab in lupus in the second half
of the year.
With this, thank you to everyone for your continued support, and thanks to all the hardworking
colleagues in AstraZeneca who come to work every day to make this happen. Please turn to slide
32. I will now hand back to Pascal for closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. Please turn to slide 33. So, let me summarize before we end, we are really
pleased with the ongoing launches and the performance of our newer medicines during the first
quarter, as they underpin the guidance of growth in product sales in 2018. Our financials are on
track with our performance being weighted toward the second half of the year and with product
sales leading the way.
Total revenue reflected lower initial externalization revenue with an unchanged pipeline of
opportunities. We remain focused on productivity, as shown by 1% decline in total core operating
expenses, while we also continue to invest for growth in our new products and in China.
The commercial execution is very strong with $400 million of additional sales versus the first
quarter of 2017. 66% growth from the newer medicines that are key to the future in AstraZeneca
and our Oncology platform, in particular, starting to take really good shape. The pipeline
continued to deliver important news flow. Based on the first quarter performance and the
encouraging trend on product sales, we reconfirm our 2018 guidance today.So, we now go to the Q&A.
Q&A
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
For those on the phone, please remember to press star 1 to ask a question. We'll also take
written questions from the webcast. Can I please remind everybody to limit questions to one, to
be fair to all of our callers? Thanks in advance for your help with this, and perhaps I'll take the first
question from the conference call.
So, we have a question here from `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. at Exane. Simon, go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thanks very much for taking my question. One for Sean, please, if I may. We can see from the
press release this morning the expanding and evolving PARP/I-O combination trials that you're
conducting. But I was just wondering how much further there is to expand that. I'm thinking areas
like colorectal where there's been some interesting work published this year on the potential
applicability of PARP in that indication and also, therefore, potentially to add I-O in there. And I
was also wondering about the scope for I-O/PARP combinations where the I-O is Keytruda
instead of Imfinzi through the joint venture. Thanks so much.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Okay. Sort of two questions there. One is the expansion of, I'm going to call, Lynparza I-O, so
Lynparza/Imfinzi or Imfinzi plus treme. So, when we shared our ovarian cancer data, we also
shared that we are initiating a trial called DUO-O, which is looking at that combination specifically
in ovarian cancer, and then we are looking at other data sets to see where we might expand
beyond that.
With regard to data and other indications, the MEDIOLA trial does have multiple expansion
cohorts. We haven't shared them all yet, but we will use data from those expansion cohorts to
help inform what additional confirmatory trials we might do in other expanding indications.
With regard to the scope of the Keytruda/Lynparza combination, we actually don't share
information between Merck and AstraZeneca on what we're doing with Lynparza in the context of
I-O combinations. So, that's really not an AstraZeneca question. It's a question that should be
addressed to Merck about their activities.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
There's a question on the webcast that we'll read aloud from Vincent Meunier at Morgan Stanley.
So, he's trying to understand the potential of Tagrisso in Asia. Dave, that will be for you. And the
question is, are there countries where the prevalence of the EGFR mutations is higher than othercountries? What about Japan? And also in China, what is the breakdown of volumes and (44:06)
sales, let's say, in China between the private channels and I guess other channels?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
So, thank you for the questions. So, yes, there are countries where the prevalence is higher and in
Asian countries, it tends to be the highest around the globe. Prevalence rates in the U.S. and in
European countries for EGFR mutation is around 15%, and in Asian countries we see it around
30%, even as much as 35%. Japan, China, Korea, this would all be the case for those countries as
you look through that.
On the second question in terms of the breakdown of volumes and sales in China, the majority of
the sales in China that we're seeing right now are coming from the private channels. There is a
few examples of provinces that have included reimbursement, but really again the demands that
we're seeing in China and the growth is coming from the private side.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Dave. Then there is a question from Tim Anderson at Bernstein. Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Emerging markets and China are a big part of your business and in China your
proportion of total sales coming from that region is much higher than peers. I've usually thought
of emerging markets exposure as a good thing, but you could argue it the other way around
because profit levels are less.
In the markets like China, you may get volatility tied to price cuts. So, with Astra investors
generally look for margin expansion over time. I'm wondering if your growing emerging market
presence could actually end up holding you back in this regard. So, can you talk about this? And,
quite simply, can you just disclose to us what the operating margin is in emerging markets?
And I'm going to slip a second question and a very short one. Can you say whether Astra was
approached by Trump's attorney, Michael Cohen, at any point? And if you were, can you confirm
that you did not do business with him?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Let me just cover the second question, Tim, and then, `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical, you might want to cover the
China question. The second is very simple and straightforward, Tim. We were not approached,
didn't talk to Michael Cohen, so we are totally out of this discussion. China, Mark?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Yeah, so definitely see China as a positive and to have such a strong position in there, and we
see continued growth and future potential. Of course, every country around the globe is
wrestling with healthcare costs. And as we've seen in the last week in the U.S., there is risks
around pricing actions. And I don't think China represents a particularly more or less risk than any
other countries. In fact, you might argue that China is sending (47:04) signals to be even more
committed to innovative medicines in the way they've been supporting changes in the China
FDA, adopting global standards and recently adding a number of products to the NRDL. So,
we're really confident in the future prospect in China.Of course, in overall emerging markets, you will have disruptions because the economies are not
as mature and so you'll have ups and downs. But it's really a strong portfolio for us. In terms of
operating margin, we've talked about this before. The business in emerging markets is a
profitable business, particularly in China we have a very – it is very much profitable growth. And
the margin, I think we've talked about it as being a bit below what we see in Europe, but
absolutely an attractive business for us.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Mark. I think with China, Tim, we have to sort of combine three things. First of all, I mean
the population is, of course as we all know, very large, but the economy is maturing to focus now
on innovation and has very strong momentum. So, that will bring additional purchasing power at
the private level, the private insurance level. The government is starting to fund pharmaceuticals
in a broader way. We got reimbursement last year for an additional five medicines, including
some that are newer medicines. As Mark said, you've got opening to – the government is now
looking at regulations to open the way to fast track approvals, et cetera.
And the final thing I think which is really something we cannot say enough is we have a
tremendous team. I think we have an incredibly talented team of individuals in China, and we
have the scale. And when you get the right people, the right team and you have the scale, then
you create a momentum that is really quite formidable and that's exactly where we are today.
Now, as Mark said, I mean of course China will be exposed to price pressures as the market
grows, but nothing different from what we experience in Europe or in the U.S.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, I'm going to move to Matt Weston at Credit Suisse. Matt, go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you, Pascal. My questions on the cost base really. Higher SG&A has been one of the key
discussion points this morning with investors. Marc mentioned the low base effects, but also the
guidance range of low- to mid-single-digit growth is a large window. So, can you just give us some
of the drivers of that range? Is it competitors potentially reacting in Respiratory that you may
need to react to? It doesn't look like it could be upcoming launches, because Lokelma in the U.S.
is the only one that's controversial. So, is it the outcome of DECLARE or roxa? Some help there
would be very useful.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. I mean, let me try and `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical and `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, you could also help me. But I mean
just in term of the new launches, I mean we've talked about quite a number of new launches,
Tagrisso, et cetera, et cetera for sure. Now, in the second half, I think you've got to think of roxa
and Lokelma, but they're like more in a pre-launch mode, if you will.
Including in the U.S., Lokelma, after we get approval we're going to spend a fair amount of time
seeking access. You cannot launch these days in the U.S. without an appropriate access,
otherwise you struggle. So, we're going to take some time to focus on access. So, those two
medicines will be in the pre-launch mode. And I think DECLARE is the other one, but much lessrequirements than in the first half, of course. Any of the two Marks (50:37), if you want to add
there.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
No, I think we are – just one word, we are obviously launching in total eight new medicine line
extensions or new formulation. And obviously, this is an important timing for their final trajectory.
So, we are closely monitoring the performance of these brands as they are being launched. And
this is why we try to allocate as much resources as we can dedicate to ensure a final success on
those brands.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Maybe one last point that I should have added actually, because the comments made were and, I
guess, Matt, your point related to the U.S., but we also have to think that as we progress, we start
launching in Europe as well. So, Europe is a little bit behind as always, because you need to get
approval, but also reimbursements. So, the launch of Imfinzi will come later in Europe, so then you
have sort of a ramp-up.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
I'll just add...
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Pascal, if...
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
...one point again is China. And China, to your point, we have great scope and scale, but we still
have so much more to penetrate. And so, we are continuously expanding into new hospitals, and
customers, and even cities. And also we're doing multiple new launches in China. So, it's not just
the established portfolio. We've got many launches occurring at the same time. So, that's also
part of the picture.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, as you can hear we are...
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Pascal, if I could...
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, go ahead, Matt. Yeah.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
If I could just ask one quick follow-up, so I have no question regarding the increased spending in
SG&A, because clearly you're in full launch mode. I understand that. Everything that everybody
seems to have referred to in your answer is events that are known to you are very highly likely to
happen with the exception of really DECLARE and roxa.My question was really about what about the 5 percentage point range embraced in the
guidance. How should we think about the need for you to flex the investments? What are the
triggers for you to go to the high end of the range or the low end of the range, given that it
seems that you should already know and have fully planned for what you need to do?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Matt, first of all, we provide guidance on product sales and EPS. So, these are the two variables
we obviously closely look at. There are obviously several lines in the P&L between product sales
and EPS, but you need to remember we have provided guidance on these two, and we will be
doing our best to meet or exceed this guidance for the year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, we're committed to the guidance, and in fact the valuation, Matt, is really based on what
opportunities we see. I mean we see a new opportunity somewhere that could drive additional
sales and profit, and we flex at that point. But essentially, as Marc said, we'll stick to the guidance.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, we could move maybe – maybe the last point I was going to make earlier is that you can see
we are in – and as you mentioned yourself, we are at a maximum pressure point this year in term
of the launches. And moving forward, clearly we expect that to improve substantially.
So, Mark Purcell at Redburn has a webcast written question. And I will read it for everybody. It's
about the gross margin. And the question is, you have a reduction in the core gross margin to
78.8%, can you help us understand what proportion of this reduction came, and that will be for
you, Marc, came from first positive manufacturing variances in Q1 2017 to the MSD collaboration?
Three, patent expiries; and four, build-out of biologic manufacturing capacity, which is yet to be
utilized. Can you help us understand where you are with the biologic manufacturing capacity
build-out? How much capacity you will have when this is completed and when utilization will kick in
and help expand the gross margin again?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So, the 5-point reduction is obviously a reduction from quarter one 2017, quarter one 2018, and
roughly the four factors that have been proposed are more or less equivalent to explain the
difference. So, the build-out of the biologic manufacturing, the lower absorption because we are
early in the launch, this is about a quarter of it. The mix effect on products such as Crestor, this is
another quarter of this variance.
The impact of the profit sharing with MSD, again another quarter; and the better situation that we
had in 2017 quarter one, because we had positive variances, procurement, credit and such things.
This is another quarter. So, you have these four – these are the four factors that explain the
difference between the first half or the first quarter of 2017 and 2018.
If you now compare the second half of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018, you will see that the
gross margin ratio are very similar. And I indicated several times in the course of 2017 that the first
half was not going to be a good prediction for the second half of 2017, but I also said that second
half will be quite helpful to guide for 2018. So, my recommendation is for you to look at thesecond half of 2017 and also to look at the first quarter of 2018. These numbers should help you
anticipate the gross margin for the full year 2018.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. As far as the capacity build, we are kind of almost done with this. We are
completing our filling plant in Sweden. But in term of manufacturing product substance, we are
done and then we will start using that capacity over time. So, we now have a question from
Andrew Baum at Citi. Andrew, go ahead.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Yeah, thank you. So, I suspect Astra has received the request for information from the HHS
following recent drug pricing announcements. Could you just give a sense of how much follow-
through to expect in relation to those announcements, particularly the conversations about
removing the protective class, and I'm thinking of categories such as Part.
And maybe just slipping a quick one for Sean, could you just outline your plans for your AKT
inhibitor, AZD5363? Is there any possibility of filing for an accelerated approval despite the
caveat of the data given there is a OS signal and PFS? Or should we assume that Phase III is
going to be the development path for the product? Many thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Andrew, two great questions. I must say the line was breaking up. The second question is clear
for sure. And the first one, hopefully, Mark, you got that one okay?
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
I can repeat.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Yeah, what I heard, Andrew, and if I'm off track, please correct me, but you asked about did we
get a request to provide input or information as part of the drug pricing plans that the
administration is working on and how much do we expect that to come through the system. I
think, as you know and we all know, I mean, there were a lot of, I think over 50 potential actions
highlighted in the administration's plan. Some requiring correctional action, some they can move
on, so it's hard for us to predict how much of this is going to impact ideas like moving classes of
reimbursement around between Part B, Part D, other approaches it may take.
It's just too early for us to make a prediction on that. What I can say is that we are happy to be
talking with the administration around what we could do around innovative contracting and
thinking about outcome-based contracts. We've had quite a bit of success in that in the
commercial area. We've got over 30 contracts now across the whole portfolio that are outcome-
based contracts, and so we're looking forward to actually engaging with them in the very near
future to see what we might be able to do within the government sector, so.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, we've been very successful with some of the outcome-based pricing
contracts we've implemented. And if we could expand on those as part of a broader policy the
administration would want to put in place, I think it would really be very welcome by us, and I'm
sure by many other companies. Sean, do you want to cover the AKT question?A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Sure. Sure. Thank you for the question, Andrew. So, the question relates to the Phase II data that –
you will have seen the abstract, we'll present it in more detail at the ASCO meeting. Capivasertib,
our AKT inhibitor in triple-negative metastatic breast cancer, we think the data's encouraging. We
think it's pretty strong indication of activity of the AKT pathway in triple-negative breast cancer,
which is a significant unmet need. It's a very poor prognosis subset of breast cancer.
With regard to accelerated approval, it would really be speculative at this point to get into
whether that might be an acceptable pathway. So, what we do is we take the data, we make, in
any case, a decision as to do we want or need to confirm it with a Phase III trial. And then I think
with regard to whether there's a more accelerated path, it's really a discussion with regulatory
agencies as to whether they see the data as supporting that. The one thing you mentioned was
survival, and we are encouraged by the consistency across endpoints.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. As you can see, more to come on this one, but certainly very exciting early data
with this new agent coming out of Cambridge research team; so really good new development.
We'll extend the TC (01:01:08) by about 10 minutes, so that we give everybody a chance to ask a
question.
And the next one from the list here is `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch at Bank of America. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my questions. On Lynparza similar to the prior question, the Zytiga combo was
a Phase II study with a (01:01:23) PFS benefit, is there any thoughts of filing that study? J&J have
talked about filing a similar strategy on response rate data. And if that study isn't fileable, just
what are your plans for the combination given the PROfound Phase III study is currently a
monotherapy study? Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Okay. So, I think, Sachin, let me clarify. In this case you're referring specifically the Study 8
(01:01:51) data in prostate cancer...
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Correct.
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
...when you say combination for – okay. Okay. Great. Well, I think that – I mean I think the answer is
not dissimilar to the answer I gave for Andrew's question with regard to capivasertib. Again, we
find the data encouraging from Study 8 (01:02:14). Again, the question is really whether there's a
regulatory pathway to bring that forward, and that's a discussion with regulators in order to
decide whether or not we are going to do that.
And then obviously is the discussion as well with regard to Lynparza/abiraterone in a Phase III
setting to confirm. And then PROfound we do have ongoing, but recall PROfound, it's a different
setting in terms of later-stage disease, also single agent in that particular case, and then as well
very heavily dependent on biomarker hypothesis looking at genes in the DNA damage response
portfolio, and mutation in those genes as inclusion criteria.A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. So, there's a question on the webcast by Sam Fazeli at Bloomberg. And the
question is, can you explain the reasoning behind starting PACIFIC-2. So, sort of the PACIFIC
program, Sean, do you want to cover that?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Yeah, sure. Yeah. The rationale behind PACIFIC-2 really has to do with the fact that, well,
concurrent administration of chemotherapy and radiation therapy are the well-established
standard of care in the United States and Europe. There are many parts of the world where
concurrent isn't the standard of care, and a lot of that has to do with the challenges of
coordinating that radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
So, PACIFIC-2 allows the testing of the maintenance hypothesis that occurred in – I'm sorry, that's
China PACIFIC I'm talking about, that's the maintenance hypothesis following sequential. PACIFIC-
2 asks a different question which is that in PACIFIC we did sequential administration of Imfinzi
after the completion of chemo/radiotherapy, PACIFIC-2 asked a question what happens if you
start everything at the same time. And so, that would be a concurrent chemo/radiation therapy, I-
O therapy going forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. I think we have – maybe we'll take another two. So, we have one question here,
`Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) at BMO. Alex, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Great. Thank you very much. Folks, just looking at your operating margin here, I fully appreciate
the headwinds you're facing with the patent expirations and the investments, the maximum
pressure points on launches, et cetera. But as you step back and look at your business, how
realistic is it for investors to expect that once things normalize, you should have an operating
margin that's more in line with your European and U.S. peers and when should we expect that?
And a follow-up, if I may, on Imfinzi. Are you seeing adoption in resectable Stage III patients as
well? And when do you expect PD-1 competition in Stage III? Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. So, the second question maybe, Dave, you could take. And then the first question is about
margins. When you look at our peers, you really have to be careful who you look at because
some companies have such a very focused business around, say, specialty care and sometimes
it's even beyond that specialty care U.S. with a little bit of European presence. So, the margins, of
course, reflect a little bit the business shape. So, you've got to compare ourselves to some of our
European peers or even U.S. peers, but have a same kind of mixture of specialty care and primary
care.
So, having said this as a context, it is clear that we intend to see our margins improve. We are at a
maximum pressure point this year. We've got so many launches, as you can see, at a time when
we have a business that, to some extent, is more relative to the size of our pipeline and the
number of launches. So, typically, you have a legacy business that is helping you and is large or at
least relative to the pipeline is large. It's not our case. So, we are really going through a maximum
pressure point, but from 2019 onwards, certainly our goal and our expectation is to see theoperating margin improve as the business ramp up. So, then, yes, we had another question, PD-1.
Sorry, Dave.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah. So, on the first question of the uptake that we've been seeing with Imfinzi in the Stage III
unresectable, as I mentioned earlier, the lion's share, in fact, the overwhelming majority of our
sales in the first quarter came from that population.
As you saw earlier in one of the slides from Pascal, you can see the demand increasing with
Imfinzi within this population. We had an estimated 3,500 monthly infusions in February. You can
see that it's almost doubled into what Pascal showed was an April number of 7,000 two months
later. So, we really are encouraged by very good growth in the underlying demand and the
growth is demand based as opposed to inventory or stocking based that we've seen.
From a competition perspective, we are the first and we believe, based upon our scanning, that
we have a 18 to 24-month lead on other Phase IIIs. Again, those are all event-driven and have to
do with the recruiting paces, et cetera. So, it's difficult to predict, but those are our estimates for
how much you add (01:08:10).
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks. Oh, sorry, did you want to go?
A - `Sean Bohen, Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development & Chief Medical `
Yeah. I believe if I heard you right, Alex, there was a question as well around resectable disease.
And obviously, that's not the indication, so that's not something we track. I just want to point out
that we do have an adjuvant study ongoing which studies that question very specifically, Stage Ib
through IIa non-small cell lung cancer, post-surgical therapy, they do better than unresectable
patients, but they don't do very well. And so the first data for that is anticipated in 2020. And
again, as Dave said, we believe we're quite a bit ahead in that setting as well.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, and just so that I'm clear, almost – I mean 100% of our use is in the unresectable population
post-CRT. And in the U.S., that represents about 80% of Stage III in terms of the unresectable
population.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, we'll take Marietta's question on the webcast at Primavenue. And she's asking a question
about Farxiga and China and saying, I didn't realize you could get provincial reimbursement
without being on the NRDL. And also, is there a chance to get on the NRDL through negotiations
that are outside the official window for reviews and additions.
Mark, do you want to cover this?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Yes. So, thanks, Marietta. It's a great question. So, yes, you can. We've done this in the past with
other products. In fact, I should say getting on the NRDL doesn't guarantee you that you'll get
listed on the province level. This is why Pascal – one of the reasons Pascal keeps highlighting the
importance about the quality of our people and the scale of our business, because we havededicated market access teams in all of the major provinces, and that's what's leading to the
success in Farxiga and the speed at which we can take advantage of NRDL listings. This isn't
going to replace the NRDL. We can't – it's still – the NRDL is critical, because we won't get all
provinces through this process.
And the question about would we negotiate in advance of the NRDL, if there was an opportunity
to make a difference for patients and we thought we could agree with the government on what's
the right value proposition, then certainly we'd look at this. I think China has committed to
accelerating the regularity of updating the NRDL list, so hopefully that won't be something that
we need to do. But, actually, as an example, Iressa was a case where we did this and it's been a
very good thing for patients and a very good thing for our business. So, I think this is just
highlighting another part of the strength of our team in China and they should be congratulated
for the great work they're doing. Yeah.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Not only you can get provincial reimbursement, you can sometimes get city reimbursements. So,
there are many, many different sources of access in China. And the last question, `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
at Deutsche Bank, and we'll finish with Richard's question. Go ahead, Richard.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Great. Thanks very much for taking my question. Again, it's on Imfinzi in the Stage III unresectable
lung cancer setting. So, if you look at the IMS weekly sales, it looks like you're annualizing now well
north of $400 million. I'm just wondering if you could give us any kind of sense of where you are
in terms of penetration of that unresectable setting in the U.S., and maybe whether that strong
launch would make you reevaluate your floor in terms of north of $1 billion. And just addition to
that, you talk about in the slides need for physician education to continue to drive that growth. I
just wondered if you could elaborate on where you think you need to improve understanding of
the drug's potential utility. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks very much, Richard. Appreciate the question. That will help us in our discussions with Dave
actually and the forecasts. You're absolutely right. The last weekly data points are pretty good.
And, Dave, you want to cover that one?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, absolutely. So, I think the first place just to comment on in terms of where we see the
penetration and I want to ground it just in the CRT behavior. So, again, about 80% of Stage III
patients are unresectable. Of those, half get CRT, and that is not something that has really
changed too dramatically in terms of the number of CRT patients that are unable to get
unresected. So, one of our big educational opportunities that we do see, of course, is to grow
the number of Stage III patients that are getting CRT and to have discussions about that.
Now among those who get CRT and who are able to not progress, which is the majority of them,
we have seen that about half of those now are getting treatment with Imfinzi in the post-CRT
setting. And so, that's really the area that we've been focused in on. We think that that's growing
quite nicely, but the educational opportunities are around really educating on an option that exists
post-CRT that really creates a chance to, in a curative setting, keep patients in Stage III.And this is one of the major areas that we are focused in on, because as I'd mentioned before,
physicians have truly not had any other options available to them up until this point. So, we're
really trying to build the Stage III market and show that there's now an opportunity to raise the bar
with respect to curative intent within this setting.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Dave. And as you can imagine, of course, we also are launching in Japan and the rest of
the world, Europe, et cetera, later this year and into early next year. So, there's a lot more to
come as it relates to Imfinzi. That gives me a chance before I conclude, gives me a chance to
thank Dave and the Oncology team, in particular, in the U.S. with the fantastic Imfinzi launch and
also the Tagrisso team and Lynparza and everybody in the Oncology team in the U.S. and around
the world doing a tremendous job.
The Fasenra team, you saw, `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical showed you the market share, an absolutely incredible
ramp-up in term of new prescription share. So, we are really on a good track with this one, too.
And the cardiovascular/diabetes team is certainly driving growth across the CVMD portfolio that is
certainly very exciting, too.
So, let me quickly conclude. First of all, thank you for all your support and interest and just
conclude by saying, as I said, we are really very happy and pleased with the results of our
launches so far and the performance of our newer medicines during Q1. Our financials are on
track. Clearly, we are at the maximum pressure point in term of the cost of launching those
products, but we are on track with what we expected. We certainly reconfirm our guidance for the
year both in terms of our cost, but also our EPS.
At the end of the day, the very exciting part and very important part to keep in mind is the growth
we see in China, the fact that the commercial execution around the world is very strong with
about $400 million of additional sales in Q1, 66% growth from these newer medicines that are
key to our future. And based on all this strong performance as well as the continued delivery of
important news flow, we reconfirm our product sales for the year and our guidance.
So, again, thank you for your interest, and a good weekend to everybody.