Q2 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's first half year 2018 results
conference call and webcast for investors and analysts.
Before I hand over the meeting to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The
company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. By their very nature,
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty and results may differ materially from
those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The company undertakes no
obligation to update forward-looking statements.
There will be an opportunity to ask questions after the presentations.
I will now connect you to the auditorium where Chief Executive Officer at AstraZeneca, Pascal
Soriot, is about to start the meeting.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
First half year results presentation, a conference call and webcast. We are here in London and we
are live with a number of people present in the room, but we also have more people joining us
by phone and by webcast. As always, the presentation is available on astrazeneca.com on our
website for you to download. And we know that there are competing events today. These
probably are reflected also by the attendance in this room. So we thank you very much to all of
those who are able to join us today.So if we move to slide 2, this is our usual Safe Harbor statement. Moving on to slide 3, so we plan
to spend around 30 minutes on the presentation, and then that will leave us plenty of time for
Q&A. For those on the phone, please remember that if you want to get into queue and ask a
question, please press star 1. There is also an option to ask questions online as part of the
webcast. We'd like to provide everyone with an opportunity to ask questions, so as usual ask of
you, if we may, is that you ask one question at a time and no three sub questions per question.
Thank you very much in advance for trying to stick to this very discipline.
Today, I'm joined as always by Dave Frederickson, who is our EVP, Head of the Oncology Business
Unit; `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical, the EVP of Global Products and Portfolio Strategy, Medical `Affairs, and Corporate Affairs and
Corporate `Affairs, and Corporate Affairs; `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, our CFO; and `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development, our Chief Medical Officer and the
EVP for Global Medicines Development.
So if we start – turn to start to slide 4, this is the agenda and we'll cover all the aspects of our
half-year announcement today. So moving to slide 5, I wanted to start with this slide because I
really – the key message I wanted to leave with you today is that the strategy we have been
pursuing and implementing for the last four years or five years is starting to bear fruit. And it's
been really a long journey, as all of you know, and that journey is not finished. We still are facing
substantial headwinds coming from patent expiries and there's still a lot of hard work ahead of
us, but the new products are starting to have an impact on our top line.
And the important point here, as you can see, that those new products that we define as
Oncology, new CVRM, and new CVRM is essentially diabetes and Brilinta, for which we will add
Lokelma and roxa in the future, and essentially exclude the older CV products, in particular,
Crestor. And Respiratory, Respiratory is the totality of the Respiratory portfolio. This collectively,
these products grew by 19% in Q2 and 14% for the first half. So you can see here a nice
acceleration in the second quarter and a very nice growth for the first half of 14%, and there's
more to come, of course, because those products – well, many of them still in launch phase.
And you see the other and the other is pretty simple. It's essentially Crestor having this big
impact. The others are declining 32% in the quarter and 25% for the first half. And as I said, it's
mainly Crestor in Japan and Europe. The dynamics in the European and Japanese marketplace
have changed as it relates to generics, and when you lose patent protection in those regions, you
really decline very, very rapidly. There's still, of course, an impact of Seroquel and Nexium, but
those are the older products. Now, you can see the growth.
The second point I want to make on this graph is the so called new, the first line on this chart, now
represent 70% of our sales. So 70% of our sales grew by 19% in Q2 and the balance 30%
declined by 32%. And that balance this so called others will start stabilizing moving forward
because what's left will be what's marketed in China and the emerging markets. The Japanese,
European, U.S. piece will be more or less gone by the end of this year. So if you project yourself
into 2019, we should no longer have this headwind coming from the rest of the portfolio or much,
much lower headwind, and then the full impact of the growth of new products should come
through.
So I wanted to start there. So you see that we are definitely at a pivot point. So if I move to slide
6, looking at the details, so the product sales declined by 2% for the half year, 1% for the quarter,
and the 1% is the result of the two numbers I just showed you. There is an impact for the first half
from the divestment that is about 2%. So, in fact, we would have been flat if without the
divestment. And there is a very, very strong performance of our new medicines, but also China.
We'll come back to this.Total revenue declined by 5%, impacted by the lower externalization revenue compared to last
year. And then, if you look at the new medicines, collectively, they delivered $1 billion of
incremental sales versus the first half of last year. Oncology grew by 37%, good sales of Lynparza,
Tagrisso and Imfinzi and we'll talk about those later. CVRM grew by 9%, with nice growth for
Brilinta and Farxiga. Respiratory stabilized. We see that the decline of Symbicort, even though it's
still a very competitive market, the decline of Symbicort is lower than in past quarters. And
importantly, Pulmicort is growing nicely. And we now see the impact of Fasenra starting to come
through in the total Respiratory sales. And we'll come back to Fasenra because it is a very exciting
product and a great launch.
The emerging markets grew by 10%, China 24%, and the quarter itself grew by 26%. And you see
here the impact of the great work our team in China is doing, but also the fact that we're getting
reimbursement for a number of new products and it's starting and accelerating our growth in
China. Outside China, if we correct for divestments, our growth rate was 4%, 5%, impacted
negatively by Russia. And we think Russia will, of course, stabilize itself. We believe that you need
to take a long-term view with Russia and work through the economic challenges the country faces
today. And we think that in the long run, starting next year, it will grow again, but certainly a
challenging economic landscape in China, as you all know today. Core EPS was $1.17 and we are
reconfirming our guidance for the year.
So if we move to slide 7 now, the pipeline continued to deliver. As you can see here, we had quite
a number of approval and submissions, approval in Oncology, approval of Lynparza in Japan for
breast cancer. The launch, by the way, of Lynparza in Japan in ovarian cancer is going very well.
We got positive outcome of our ovarian cancer first-line study with Lynparza, so great news
around Lynparza. Tagrisso, we got approval for first-line in the EU. Imfinzi got approval in Japan
and we also met the primarily overall survival endpoint. Selumetinib didn't succeed in thyroid
cancer. So you can see here quite a number of very supportive positive news for Oncology
franchise, also a number of good developments across cardiovascular, renal and metabolism
with, as you can see on this slide, a number of submissions, and importantly, the approval of
Lokelma in the U.S.
In Respiratory, unfortunately, Fasenra didn't meet the primary endpoint in COPD and we are
working through where does it leave us and what are the next step for Fasenra in that indication.
We, of course, are still very excited about the potential in asthma, but certainly in COPD, we have
to work at what are the next steps. And as you know, our BACE inhibitor didn't work in
Alzheimer's disease. We terminated the program.
If you now move to slide 8, the left-hand side graph actually shows you the trend over the last
few quarters, and essentially, this graph tells you what I've told you a few minutes ago is that the
impact of the declining older products is progressively compensated by the launch of new
products. And so the negative sales growth has been declining all the way down to Q2 being
almost flat. So we hope and we believe that it will continue to improve and the second half should
be a growth picture and 2019 should definitely see a growth picture because of the impact of
declining old product will be very small by then.
On the right-hand side, you see the medicines that are impacting our sales. And the important
message here is that there's not one or two products that are driving our growth, but several,
several that have been either established for sometime like Brilinta or our new like Lynparza,
Tagrisso, Imfinzi and have been established like Farxiga, but can also be new in the next few
months if DECLARE is positive, it will bring a new strength and a new force behind Farxiga. So, as
you can see here, it's really an engine that is powered by multiple products, and the onlynegative really is Crestor that, hopefully, we get out of by the end of this year in terms of the
declining sales in Japan and Europe.
If you look at slide 9 now, we can see here the impact of each individual new products on our
total growth. As I said earlier, we generated an additional $1 billion of additional sales for the first
half, and collectively, these products grew by 69%. Just like to attract your attention to Tagrisso.
On the basis of Q2, we are getting close to a run rate, annual run rate of $2 billion, so not exactly
$2 billion, but not far. And so it's really a product that is growing very rapidly and has enormous
potential moving forward as we'll roll out the first-line indication and we get reimbursement for it
across the world, including China, we hope. This product has tremendous potential. But Tagrisso
is not the only product.
Imfinzi, you'll hear more from Dave a little bit later. Imfinzi demonstrated a pretty rapid launch
trajectory and we are very happy with the development of this product in the U.S. marketplace,
and the other products also drove growth. So, if we move to slide 10, you've got a summary here
of our sales by franchise.
Oncology grew by 40% for Q2, 37% for the half year. New CVRM 9%, both for Q2 and the half
year. Respiratory was flat for the half year, but grew by 7% in Q2. And this is linked to the fact that
Pulmicort is growing, and we've resolved the supply issue in China, in particular. Symbicort is
stabilizing and Fasenra is adding to the growth of the Respiratory franchise. And then others, as
we saw a minute ago, are clearly collapsing, declining 32% in Q2.
Importantly again here, China grew by 26% in Q2 and 24% year to date. We can talk more about
China during the Q&A, but it's certainly a very nice performance, and the team there is doing a
fabulous job.
Moving to slide 11, we'll now stop here and ask Dave come here and give you some highlights
about the development of our Oncology franchise.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
All right. Thank you, Pascal. I appreciate very much. And it's really a pleasure to be here today to
talk about our new generation of medicines. I'll start first and update on Oncology, and then, Mark
will come up and speak through CVRM, Respiratory and emerging markets afterwards. So if we
could, turn, please, to slide 12.
So, as Pascal mentioned, in the first half sales in Oncology were over $2.6 billion for the half.
Oncology was at a growth rate of 37% for the half and now represents 27% of total product sales.
I think also what this graph depicts and really importantly, in the second quarter, for the first time,
we had greater contribution of new oncology to our sales than we did for our mature products.
And you can see that depicted by the colored graph versus the gray shaded on the right.
The four new medicines, as Pascal spoke to, delivered about $0.7 billion or $700 million in
additional sales versus the first half of 2017. And this really came from accelerated growth globally
on Lynparza, with a promising launch in Japan that I'll mention too in a second. On Tagrisso, we
saw sustained high growth across the globe and really a very encouraging start to our first-line
launch within the U.S.
With Imfinzi, we saw a near doubling in our sales in lung cancer. And Calquence continues to
progress solidly, as we've seen an increase in the BTKi-naïve patient utilization. I won't talk much
about Faslodex after this, but I do want to note that Faslodex continues to perform, benefiting
from the expanded label with novel combinations in breast cancer.If we can, turn to the next slide. So on Lynparza, what we saw were sales in the first half of $269
million, and there was growth across all of the regions, which you can see pretty clearly here on
the slide. In the U.S., sales were $149 million for the half, and also we saw sequential growth
coming as well. Growth came across both our ovarian cancer, where we continue to see strength
from the launch of the tablet formulation and our broad ovarian label, but also emerging
utilization and continued utilization within breast cancer. The majority of our use is in ovarian, as I
mentioned before, and Lynparza continues to be in the United States the leading medicine in the
PARP inhibitor class as measured by total prescription volumes.
In Europe, sales were about $87 million or up 36% versus the prior year. And again, this reflects
strength that we have in increasing our testing rates, lengthening duration of therapy, and the
broad label that we've got within ovarian cancer with the tablet. I alluded to it before, but we're
very excited about what appears to be a promising start to a launch within Japan, already at $10
million in sales. But I think that more importantly than the sales number, what we see is that we've
opened up in Japan 85% of accounts. We've done that with a very rapid pace and the market-
shaping work in order to establish the importance of BRCA and to establish the importance of
PARP inhibition has been really quite impressive. And I think that that's created a pent-up demand
so that when we launched, we launched with lots of enthusiasm.
In terms of upcoming milestones, we look forward to the presentation of the results of the
SOLO-1 study, which we expect in the second half of this year, and also in China, a second half
regulatory decision in ovarian cancer, which would be the first opportunity to bring Lynparza to
China.
With that, if we could, please turn to the next slide, 14. So as we move to our lung cancer
portfolio, I'd like to talk about Tagrisso, which is our number one medicine in our Oncology
portfolio. For the half, we had $760 million in sales. And really very importantly and I think
impressively, these are sales that come across 75 different countries worldwide in which we are
approved, in which we've established a very good mechanism for driving testing and driving
results across the globe.
The U.S. obviously the largest portion of that with $341 million in sales for the half. We saw
strength in our second-line business. But of course, it was the front-line business and the growth
that occurred there following the approval in April that is really, I think, the driver as we pivot
towards first-line. In the U.S., Tagrisso is now the market leader in the first-line in terms of new
patient starts in the first-line EGFR-mutated setting.
Europe demonstrated a strong half with growth of 63%. Though the quarter was softer, and just
to explain a bit of the dynamics behind that, volume growth was good in Europe for the quarter. It
was offset by some price declines that were largely due to adjustments to access agreements
and there are some retrospective aspects of that. We don't expect that to carry through going
forward, but it is something we experienced within the quarter.
Importantly, within Japan, which you'll recall last quarter had sequentially moved to stable or
softening growth, Japan returned to growth in the second quarter, which we think is promising,
especially because that's ahead of a front-line approval within Japan, which we expect in the
second half of the year and with the subsequent launch immediately afterwards as price has
already been established. Within China, worth noting that we expect a regulatory decision for
next year.
If we could, turn the page to slide 15, please. So now turning to Imfinzi, we are very pleased to
see in the second quarter that the approval or following the approval for the PACIFIC indication inunresectable Stage III non-small cell lung that we really are at an inflection point in terms of sales.
Sales for the half were $184 million, but importantly, in the quarter it was $122 million. The vast
majority of these sales are from the lung indication, a very, very small portion coming from
bladder. And we do see that roughly half of the PACIFIC-eligible patients in this setting are
getting immunotherapy, and the majority of those are getting Imfinzi.
I think if you take a look over on to the right, what you can see in the underlying patient dynamics
is that in June we neared 10,000 monthly infusions in the United States, and that's a near
doubling from where we exited from the first quarter. So you can really see the good velocity
within this business. And that's reflected too in growth in new starts as well as in total scripts.
We did in the quarter see our first sales outside of the United States, and we have additional
approvals that have been obtained in Japan, Canada, Switzerland, India, and Brazil. And we
expect over 40 more countries to be approved as we move into the second half. And as we saw
with Tagrisso, I think that's the real opportunity to really even get an opportunity to see even
further sustained growth.
So as I turn then to my last slide on 17 and the Haematology franchise, I'd just like to reflect
continued progress we're making in Haematology. It's a platform that we're building for years to
come. Calquence continues to perform well, with sales of $20 million in the half in our fast-to-
market, second-line, relapsed/recurrent, mantle cell lymphoma indication. We have about a
quarter now of new patients starting on Calquence within that indication within the market. And
we look forward to the chronic lymphocytic leukemia data readouts, which is really where the
larger market opportunity is, and those readouts we're expecting in 2019.
Finally, moxetumomab is our first potential antibody drug conjugate, or ADC, and we expect the
regulatory decision in the third quarter for this very niche but also very high unmet need disease
of hairy cell leukaemia.
So with that, I bring a close to the Oncology section, and I will turn it over to Mark.
`Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Thanks, Dave, for that exciting overview on Oncology. I'm very pleased to be here again to talk to
you about starting with new CVRM, our medicines in Cardiovascular, Renal, and Metabolism. Sales
were up by 9% despite the intense competition, as Pascal highlighted, with first half sales at $1.9
billion. Farxiga and Brilinta continued to remain strong, with double-digit growth across all regions.
And Brilinta, if we move to Brilinta specifically first, delivered sales of $609 million, with 18%
growth in the half, driven by volume growth in the U.S. with sales up 20% and double-digit growth
continuing across the regions, with emerging markets up 17%, and Europe up 14%. So we continue
to be very pleased with the performance of Brilinta.
Farxiga delivered sales of $639 million in the half, with 36% growth and maintained market share
leadership globally with 41% volume share. Farxiga growth of 29% in the U.S. exceeded the SGLT2
class growth. However, we are seeing some slowdown in the global class growth, and we look
forward to the DECLARE readout in the second half of this year as the next major event for the
brand and for the class.
Ex-U.S., where we have 58% of our global sales for Farxiga, we have seen encouraging
performances with volume-driven growth increasing in Europe, which was up 28%, and in
emerging markets, which was up an impressive 59%. And in China, despite not being listed on
the National Reimbursement Drug List, we were pleased to deliver reimbursement in sevenprovinces and discussions are continuing on a number of other provinces. So very excited and
encouraged by the launch of Farxiga in China.
And finally, turning back to the U.S. and the fast-growing GLP-1 market, our autoinjector, Bydureon
BCise, continues to perform well, returning the Bydureon franchise to growth with 5% growth in
the quarter. And what's exciting to see is roughly half the patients for Bydureon BCise are new to
the GLP-1 class and about a third are coming from the Bydureon Pen as a switch.
Now, turning to Respiratory, if we go to the next slide, as Pascal mentioned, growth was flat in the
first half of the year versus 2017, with a very encouraging 7% growth in the second quarter. The
performance was driven by moderation in the decline of Symbicort in the U.S., solid growth of our
inhaled products in Japan and emerging markets and the strong launch of Fasenra, the first of our
leading biologics portfolio in Respiratory.
So on Symbicort, product sales were down 10% with a reduction of the decline in the quarter,
which was down 8%, mainly due to U.S. pricing pressure slightly moderating and our strong share
performance within the ICS/LABA class. U.S. sales were down 21% with the quarter down 14%,
whilst Europe was down 8% in the half. And in emerging markets, as mentioned, Symbicort
exhibited continued growth of 10% in the half. Pulmicort was up 6% with emerging markets the
driver of the growth, up 15% and then 37% in the quarter. And the Pulmicort supply delay that I
mentioned in the first quarter in China, that has been resolved, as you can see from the sales
results.
So now, I'd just like to take a moment more on Fasenra, which we're excited about. So, Fasenra
continued its very strong start with sales of $86 million in the half. The launch continues to
perform in line with our expectations, given its highly competitive profile. And in the U.S. and
Japan, Fasenra is now the leading novel respiratory biologic in terms of new patient starts. U.S.
sales were $67 million, and Japan, which launched during the quarter, delivered a strong early
uptake with $11 million in sales. Europe sales were $8 million with the majority coming from
Germany as we continue to roll out launches to other countries.
Now, the successful launch has been driven by the strong clinical profile of Fasenra and we
continue to hear feedback from physicians on the positive impact Fasenra is having in patients
even already. And the success has also been driven by excellent execution of our teams and an
industry-leading support program to help physicians and patients get appropriate reimbursement
for Fasenra.
And finally, we're working very hard to help improve the diagnosis of severe asthma and to make
sure patients are referred to appropriate specialists to get the right treatment and to manage
their disease. Less than one in 10, one in 10, asthma patients eligible for biologics therapy are
actually receiving the treatment. This represents a huge opportunity to improve patient care and
obviously, it represents a really exciting opportunity for Fasenra to continue to grow. We look
forward to, as I said, other countries coming onboard throughout the year.
Let's move to slide 20. And so wrapping up our growth platforms, a deeper dive into emerging
markets. Emerging markets continues to track in line with the long-term performance target,
delivered 10% in the half, 10% growth. China delivered, as I mentioned a couple of times, strong
performance again with 24% growth in the half. And it benefited from the products that we
added to the NRDL in 2017 and, of course, the very successful and ongoing launch of Tagrisso.
And we continue to partner with physicians to develop centers of excellence to ensure better
disease management in diabetes, chest pain and lung cancer, to name a few. And this isecosphere around these key diseases to make a big difference for patients and engage as many
partners in helping to improve care.
And outside of China, we continue to see the impact from general economic conditions and
divestments, which amounted to 7% to 8% of an impact on growth. Russia headwinds did
continue. As I mentioned in the last quarter, business was impacted by both cost and budget
pressures within the healthcare system. And we did experience some manufacturing capacity
constraints in the Middle East and Africa. However, strong performance of our main therapeutic
areas in emerging markets continued, with Oncology up 37%, Respiratory up 13% and new CVRM
up 32%.
So in summary, our portfolio of several potential blockbusters with emerging markets, I think we
clearly are continuing to demonstrate the Krayer-Marshall capabilities to make all of these
opportunities major successes for the company. And that we are absolutely doing the best we
can to get these new medicines to all of the eligible patients that could benefit from them.
And with that note, I'd love to have Marc come up at this point.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Mark, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes to walk you
through our financial performance for the first half of the year as well as our unchanged guidance.
So, if you want to turn to page 22, as usual, we'll start with the reported P&L before turning to the
core numbers. As Pascal mentioned earlier, product sales declined by 2% for the half where the
growing contribution for new medicine and strong emerging markets were offset by the ongoing
impact from the loss of exclusivity for Crestor. The lower level of initial externalization revenue in
the half drove a decline in total externalization revenue of 54%. I want to be clear that we remain
focused on creating further externalization opportunities in the future.
As we rapidly across – approach or return to growth, I'm pleased that we reduced restructuring
cost in the half to $187 million from $496 million in the first half of last year. CapEx was also
reduced to $486 million in the first half. This was $549 million for last year, and anticipate declines
in restructuring costs and capital expenditure for the full year.
Please turn to slide 23. Moving to the core P&L, our gross margin ratio for the first half fell, as
expected by 3 percentage points to 80%, driven by the impact of positive manufacturing
variances in the first half of last year as well as the inclusion of the profit share for Merck. The
rapid decline in the sale of Crestor in Europe and Japan also had an impact.
The core operating expenses increased by 2% with a 5% decline in core R&D costs, outweighed
by a 7% increase in core SG&A cost. Core other operating income declined by 27% as a result of
the timing of our divestment for this year. Our core tax rate was 19%, in line with the indication of
a full-year core tax rate between 16% and 20%.
Moving now to slide 24, as you can see on this slide, the lumpiness of the externalization
revenues, but it's also worth highlighting that we have a growing contribution from the
collaboration with Merck, with $170 million of milestone payments received in the first half. We
also await $400 million later in the year as option payments. There will continue to be a regular
stream of milestones payment from Merck over time, which will reduce the variability in the
externalization revenue.
The key part of our strategy is to focus on more appropriate cash-generating and value-accretiveWe are also committed to the continued management of our portfolio divestments and to
increasing the focus of our three main therapy areas over time.
Moving to slide 25. As I mentioned earlier, our core R&D costs declined by 5%. Despite
maintaining a high level of activity, we continue to deliver benefit from productivity initiatives and
efficiencies. The investments in our business remain one of capital allocation priorities and I
continue to anticipate a stable to low single-digit decline in core R&D costs for this year.
Core SG&A cost increased by 7%, reflecting investment in new medicine launches and increase of
promotion resources in China. H1 2017 saw one of the lowest levels of our core SG&A spend in
many years. Comparison will, however, become more favorable in the second half of this year.
Consequently, I anticipate a low to mid single-digit percentage increase in core SG&A cost for the
full year. We closely monitor our sales performance. And if we see that our investment continues
to drive excellent results from our new medicine and our business in China, we are likely to be at
the higher end of that range.
And I'd like to conclude with a reiteration of our 2018 – I'm on slide 27. I'd like to conclude with a
reiteration of our 2018 guidance, which is on product sales and core EPS at constant exchange
rates. The product sales performance in the first half was in line with expectation. And so I have
no hesitation in keeping my guidance for low single-digit product sales growth over the full year
unchanged. I continue to anticipate the sum of the externalization revenue and other operating
income will be less than that in 2017. And I want to reiterate my expectation of a core EPS of
$3.30 to $3.50.
Finally, our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged, given the first half performance, the
success of our new medicine and the pipeline that is key to our return to growth.
And with that, I will hand over to Sean.
`Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
All right, thank you, Marc. I'll now run through the late-stage pipeline events that we have had
since the last results announcement and also highlights of recent data presentations at medical
meetings. And as usual, I will finish my presentation with a look forward at our upcoming news
flow.
If you could, please turn to slide 28. So this summarizes active movement in our Oncology
pipeline. We have had strong progress in our Oncology portfolio through this quarter. More
specifically, Lynparza met its primary endpoint in the SOLO-1 trial, showing a delay in disease
progression or death when used as a first-line maintenance therapy for BRCA-mutated ovarian
cancer. Also, the tablet formulation of Lynparza was approved in Japan for BRCA-mutated breast
cancer.
Tagrisso received EU approval for first-line EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer. Selumetinib,
as Pascal mentioned, did not meet the primary endpoint in the thyroid cancer trial. Our ambition
now with selumetinib is getting it approved in the unmet medical need of neurofibromatosis type
1.
Finally, for news flow, Imfinzi was approved in Japan for unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung
cancer based on PACIFIC trial data. Furthermore, at a planned interim analysis, the PACIFIC trial
met its second primary endpoint of overall survival, which was both statistically significant and
clinically meaningful. And we plan to present this data at a forthcoming medical meeting.From the right side of this slide, data from our Innovative Oncology portfolio was again on display
at ASCO, where we had 91 abstracts accepted, including 14 oral presentations. Of those, seven
were Best of ASCO presentations. We presented data from Study 08, evaluating Lynparza in
combination with abiraterone and metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. The trial
showed the potential of PARP inhibition beyond ovarian and metastatic breast cancers regardless
of homologous recombination repair mutation status.
We reported response rates and safety data for the immunotoxin moxetumomab pasudotox in
relapsed/refractory hairy cell leukemia patients from our 1053 trial. For selumetinib, we presented
Phase II data from the SPRINT trial, evaluating the MEK inhibitor in pediatric patients with
neurofibromatosis type 1 and plexiform neurofibromas.
From our early-stage pipeline, we presented data from PAKT Phase II trial of capivasertib, a
highly-selective oral AKT inhibitor combined with paclitaxel. The data showed positive impact of
the combination on progression-free survival and overall survival in previously untreated
metastatic triple negative breast cancer.
We can go now to slide 29. In CVRM, last quarter, we received U.S. approval for Lokelma. For
Farxiga, we made two regulatory submissions. One in Japan for the treatment of type-1 in
diabetes, which is a potential new use of the medicine; the other was in the EU for Farxiga
combined with Onglyza and metformin as a triple tablet for patients with type-2 diabetes. Also, in
type-2 diabetes, we made a regulatory submission in the United States for Bydureon based data
from the EXSCEL cardiovascular outcomes trial. And we received a positive CHMP opinion for
Bydureon BCise, the autoinjector.
At the American Diabetes Association Conference last month, we shared new data on Farxiga in
combination with Onglyza and on MEDI0382. MEDI0382 has a novel mechanism of action. It is
based on a peptide release from the gut, which targets both GLP-1 and glucagon receptors,
which are in turn critical to controlling metabolic functions. In a Phase IIa study, the compound
showed significantly improved glycemic control and reduced body weight compared to placebo.
Phase IIb is now under way with data expected in the first half of 2019.
If we can go to next slide, slide 30, on to Respiratory, where we continued our momentum in
building an innovative biologics portfolio, which truly is following the science. As Pascal mentioned,
the launch of Fasenra in severe asthma – Pascal and Marc as well, the launch of Fasenra in severe
asthma is off to a strong start. In COPD, Fasenra missed the primary endpoint in two separate
Phase III trials in the quarter. In terms of life cycle management, we are developing Fasenra for
administration in the home and we have also begun a new Phase III trial, OSTRO, for its use in
nasal polyposis.
As presented previously, tezepelumab has demonstrated potential to be the best-in-disease
asthma medication based on its Phase II efficacy trial as it reduces several key biomarkers,
including blood eosinophils, fractional-exhaled nitric oxide, or FeNO, and immunoglobulin. As a
reminder, the Phase III program called PATHFINDER has begun with data anticipated after 2019.
Next slide, please. In addition to our innovative medicines, we have also become a leader in
precision medicine, driven by a strategy of developing the best medicines for those patients
most likely to benefit from them. Together with our partners, we now have 22 diagnostic tests
approved in the U.S., EU, and Japan, which supported more than $1.4 billion in precision medicine
sales for the first half of 2018. The biomarkers detected in these tests include EGFR mutation,
T790M-mutation in EGFR, BRCA, and PD-L1 expression, to name a few.We have several more tests for biomarkers in development, and these include tumor mutational
burden and homologous recombination repair gene mutations, which we will pair with our
innovative medicines. Hence, as a further result of our portfolio transformation, specialty care
medicines now make up more than one-quarter of our first half 2018 sales.
Next slide, please, this slide summarizes our upcoming news flow. For Lynparza, we anticipate
regulatory submission in the second half based on positive high-level results from SOLO-1 for its
first-line use in ovarian cancer. Following the U.S. approval for Lynparza in germline BRCA-mutated
breast cancer at the start of the year, we received regulatory approval in Japan at the start of this
month and expect a regulatory decision in the EU in the first half of next year. We anticipate a
regulatory decision for Tagrisso in first-line setting in Japan in the second half of this year.
Moving to immuno-oncology, we await an EU regulatory decision in the second half for the
PACIFIC trial in unresectable Stage III non-small-cell lung cancer. Also in lung cancer, we expect
overall survival data readouts for MYSTIC in the second half of this year and for NEPTUNE in the
first half of 2019. In head and neck cancer, we expect data from the KESTREL first-line and EAGLE
second-line trials in the second half of this year. Our first-line bladder cancer trial DANUBE will
have a data readout in the second half of 2019.
In CVRM, data from the Phase III DECLARE trial will be available later this year. We anticipate a
regulatory decision for Bydureon's auto-injector in the EU by the end of the year. And as
communicated by our partner FibroGen, we anticipate data readout for roxadustat in the second
half of this year and regulatory submission in the first half of 2019.
In Respiratory, for COPD, we anticipate a regulatory submission acceptance for PT010 and a
submission in Japan, and a decision from the EU for Bevespi by the end of this year. Finally, we
expect data from anifrolumab in lupus in the second half of 2018.
With this, I want to thank everyone for your continued support and thank all of the hard-working
colleagues at AstraZeneca who come to work every day and make all of this progress happen.
And I will hand back to Pascal for closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Sean. So I'll now move to the last slide, slide 34. And just to save us a bit of time for
Q&A, I will not cover this slide. I just want to leave you with one message actually, which is what I
said in the introduction. Our strategy is now delivering results, and we are at this pivot point
where the growth of our new products is accelerating and will soon supersede the decline of the
old products. These old products, as you know, today they represent 30% of our total sales, and
rapidly they will stabilize. And then, as of the second half, but also importantly even more so, next
year we will see an accelerated growth of our top line.
And I want to take this opportunity to thank our colleagues around the world. Many of them are
actually listening to us and watching this event. We've rolled out the new technology that is called
Workplace and allows them to follow this presentation in real time. So I just want to say hello to all
of them and thank them all for their hard work and their talent. Over the last few years, they've
delivered absolutely outstanding results.
So I'll stop here and open for the question-and-answer session. And if I may ask you, just ask us
simple, easy questions, so we can impress our colleagues who are listening to us. Thank you.
Andrew?Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Good afternoon. It's Andrew Baum from Citi, two questions. First, the administration recently sent
a proposal to the White House for amendments or elimination of the current rebate structure.
Could you talk to your understanding? And I know there's limited information, but what you're
expecting in terms of, number one, our assumption is this is limited to federal-sponsored plans,
whether that's consistent with your understanding, second, the timing, and then finally, the risk
that this spreads to commercial plans because general counsels or PBMs feel uncomfortable
running a separate structure if there is an enforced amendment under the Medicare.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. Mark, do you want to cover these questions?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
So your understanding I think actually is pretty good. I don't think we can add much to it based on
what we know. Really, there's a lot of uncertainty and not too much information. It does appear
likely to be focused on federal plans, but it would be a massive change even in that scope. And
so I think it's pretty hard to predict right now.
Our company is supportive of working with any of the players, including the administration, in the
healthcare system in the U.S. to find ways to address the concerns that people have around out-
of-pocket costs. And if there is a way that this could help, then we'd want to engage and try to
make it a success, but we need to hear it. There's risks associated with it as well. So I don't have
really a lot to add to it. I don't know, Pascal, if you want to add any other points?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The only thing we can also add to this is that if we are able to remove those rebates, certainly it
would create short-term challenges, but in the long term it would be a good thing for most of the
industry really, because those create incentives that are not necessarily good for anybody in the
long term. So we'll see what comes out. The ideas that are generated, they tend to change
almost on a weekly basis. We'll see what it is when it's implemented.
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thanks, James Gordon from JPMorgan. The question was just on Lokelma. And so you've got the
U.S. approval, but I think aren't launching yet and maybe not launching till next year. Just what are
the different factors there in terms of continued manufacturing issues versus was the label as
good as you hoped for, for the product, or is it partly about consideration in terms of building a
nephrology sales force where you don't yet know whether roxadustat has been successful? And
does it partly reflect some uncertainty around the chances of success for roxadustat?
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
So no uncertainties about the manufacturing. The label was in line with our expectations, and we
remain very excited about that. We've got teams in place and we're starting to lay the
groundwork. The decision to launch in 2019 is all about market preparation.
I think if you've observed other specialty launches in the U.S., making sure that you've got market
access at a reasonable level is crucial, and that takes some time. So we're doing that. I think this is
potentially a transformative treatment for hypokalemia, and even physicians' understanding ofSo we're laying the groundwork both from an access and from a science standpoint. We're very
excited about the product. The label is good. We have no manufacturing issues. Everything is
going to be a full green light in 2019.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The market has changed, James, in the U.S., as you know. And getting good access or minimum
level of access by the time you truly start promotion is key because otherwise you're really
struggling quite a lot. And you've seen many other products have waited a few months before
launching to get to reasonable access, and that's exactly what we're doing. But the product
should do well. There's a big unmet need. It's a great product. It's only a question of launching
when we have sufficient access.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yes. `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG from Deutsche Bank. I've just got a couple questions. Firstly on Imfinzi,
obviously, you had an incredible launch in the Stage III unresectable lung cancer setting, and none
of your competition is currently in Phase III studies, but there was a single-arm trial of Keytruda at
ASCO, which is of broadly similar efficacy and safety. So I'm just wondering what you think the
probability is that the Keytruda could have a NCCN compendia listing based on that data and
whether that would likely have any impact on Imfinzi use in that setting. So that's the first
question.
Second one is just a quick one on gross margin. You saw a sequential improvement in the second
quarter. So just wondered how that is likely to evolve throughout the rest of the year as the new
products start to take greater proportion of revenues.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. Dave – or Sean, Dave, do you want to cover the first one, the NCCN?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
So absolutely, as I had mentioned, the Imfinzi uptake has been really quite strong. And I think that
it is important to note within that that, as I said before, we've got about half of post-CRT being
treated with an immunotherapy. And we do see that really the vast majority of that is with Imfinzi,
meaning that we're not seeing a lot of other PDX in that particular setting right now.
And your question about the data at ASCO, your speculation on NCCN will be every bit as good
as mine. What I would say is that I think that single-arm studies don't often meet the evidence
level that is required for 2A, which is what is required in order for that to actually translate into
public reimbursement within the U.S. It doesn't mean that that won't be how NCCN chooses, but
that's at least my experience with it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Mark – sorry. Sean, go ahead.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Yeah. I think Dave is exactly right in the setting that we're trying to work here now. We have NCCN
listing based on single-arm studies, Calquence has them, but that's the only agent in the study,
okay? So you know that whatever effect you're seeing is attributable to that. That's not the case
in this disease setting because patients are getting chemoradiation therapy, all of them. Sothey're getting an active agent. And without a control arm, you can say it looks broadly like ours,
but you really can't say how it would have competed against the standard of care. And I think in
that setting, what Dave said is really true. It's hard to get a level of evidence.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Sean. Marc, do you want to cover the gross margin question?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
In terms of gross margin, I think if you look at the year-to-date gross margin, this would be a
good indication for the gross margin for the overall 2018. So the slight improvement that we
experienced in the second quarter may not be lasting until the end of the year. So I would remain
on the conservative side and use the year-to-date gross margin.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. If I can take one minute, I'll take the question online and then return to you, if that's okay?
There's a question from `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. at Exane. Simon, do you want to go ahead? So sounds like
we have a technology challenge with the phone lines. How about you ask your question, Keyur?
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Parekh from Goldman. Two questions, please, one for Sean and one for Marc. Sean, from your
perspective, based on your interactions with thought leaders, what do you think roxadustat needs
to show that is non-inferiority good enough or do you need to show superiority from a
commercial perspective? That's one. And Marc, can you just remind us what cash flow is from
operations were for the first half of the year? Would you expect them to be for the full year and
what the swing factor between the two halves are likely to be? Thank you.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
You want me go ahead?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, go ahead.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
Okay. Yeah. So with regard to roxadustat, I think first of all, it's important to recognize that
probably what we need to show is different in the two different settings that we're looking at it in.
So, in the dialysis setting, where ESAs are the standard of care and have established and with a
black box warning cardiovascular safety risk, and the opportunity there is to show superiority from
the standpoint of not carrying that risk. So you will treat the anemia without incurring risk of
potentially catastrophic events. I think what remains to be explored is, if you get similar safety in
the trials, you'd still do have an oral agent and then you would look at what is your efficacy in
terms of raising the level in treating the anemia.
It's different in the pre-dialysis, non-dialysis dependent chronic kidney disease because your
comparator there is placebo. So you can't – it's very unlikely, you can have less cardiovascular risk
than no treatment. So there what you're looking at is non-inferiority versus placebo from a safety
standpoint, but by virtue of being not an injectable and an oral starting to extend treatment for
anemia to patients who aren't in the intensive healthcare setting.A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So in terms of cash generation, we have a general pattern where the first half of the year we do
not, for the time being, produce large free cash flows. However, this increases over the second
half of the year. This is further compounded by the external revenues or other income –
generation of other income that could happen at any time. But as I have told you earlier on, on
2018, this will be more – it will be stronger in the second half than in the first half. So we have a
general pattern. And then, I think 2016 and 2017 would be quite useful for predictions. And then,
you need to compound it with the projections for the externalization and other income in 2018. I
think these two sets of predictions have to be made.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Do you have a follow-up question, Keyur?
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
So what do you expect full-year cash flow from operations to be?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
I'm not going to give you the exact number, but it will be a number that's not very far from 2017.
Q - `Roger Franklin, Analyst, Liberum Capital Ltd. `
`Roger Franklin, Analyst, Liberum Capital Ltd. from Liberum. Just a question on Fasenra, I mean, obviously, the thing that stands
out this quarter, so really quite an incredible performance. And you called out two factors, kind of
the profile and the execution. I wonder if you could just split those out and how much do you think
this is down to the profile of medicine? And how much do you think this is down to your
execution?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I think it's both. And I think, again, it is the appropriate time to recognize the U.S. team. They've
done an absolutely fabulous job. A lot of them actually joined us for this launch. They came from
other companies with a lot of experience in biologics. We have a tremendous leader managing,
leading this team. He's done a tremendous job on all fronts, from access to commercial to
marketing to sales. And the second aspect is the product, as Mark told you. And I think one of the
key aspects of the product is the speed of action because patients experience the benefit very
rapidly, and they come back to physicians and they relate the positive experience to physicians,
which is a positive feedback loop to the prescriber to use the product more.
Mark, anything else you want to add?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
Just a couple of points because the answer for me would be both. It's hard to separate out. I
think that you have to start with the profile. And what's important is that we're seeing very similar
uptakes of Fasenra in Japan and Germany, basically, as we launch, extremely rapid uptake and
very positive feedback from patients because they're feeling an effect, the benefit on the first
dose, which has not always been the case with biologics in asthma. So, very exciting profile that's
clearly sort of fundamental.The other thing that I would add is that we've been able to leverage our experience in managing
and was helping physicians, patients manage the reimbursement challenge of specialty
medicines and getting through prior authorizations, creating the documentation. We have
something called Access 360, which is a group that's – an in-house capability that we built first for
synergies and then for the Oncology launches. And it really is a best-in-class capability. The team
that works there also needs a huge congratulation.
And what they've been able to do is very significantly reduced the time it takes between when a
prescription is written and when a patient can get reimbursement and be confident that they will
be able to not just have the first dose but actually be able to use the medicine. And I think all of
those factors come together have really allowed for a very rapid uptake.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. And the German team and the Japanese team have done a fantastic job, absolutely stellar
launch in all the countries where we have launched. I think it's important because I remember a
year ago or a few months back, people were saying, okay, well, it's great, you have a pipeline
now, but do you have the commercial strength to launch those products? And I think we can say,
absolutely yes. We do have that. When you look at Tagrisso, you look at Imfinzi, you look at
Fasenra and all the other products and they're all doing quite well. So our commercial
organization is very strong.
I interrupted you. Maybe, James, you wanted to ask a follow-up question.
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Yes. Sure. So I just wanted to ask in terms of specific feedback you get from physicians on the
profile versus Lokelma. What do you hear from them?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
I mean, what the physicians are talking about is what the patients tell them and the things that are
coming back, being able to sleep again, being able to get back with activity. A severe asthma
patient's life is very debilitated, right? They're not able to do any activities of challenge at times,
and they just feel better. And one of the things we're doing is, actually, we're trying to do some
research to really capture that how it's impacting patients. And we've got to plan some additional
studies to try to explore that from a scientific perspective because it seems like the impact is
really strong.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the people tend to see asthma as a minor disease, but severe asthma
is really debilitating. And we have so many of those stories of patients coming back and saying,
look, I haven't been sleeping for 10 years. I haven't been able to function properly. And I took this
drug and I sleep. I sleep the whole night.
And sometimes people come up and they're quite emotional about the experience they're going
through because they have their life back. Unfortunately, it doesn't work in every single patient
who is treated, as you would imagine, but some of those – many of those patients experience
really transformative benefits. And the speed at which those benefits come become obvious is
really striking. And I think that's really what the physicians are hearing.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `I think the other thing we should also highlight, and again, it's credit to the clinical teams, the
medical affairs teams, and the marketing, sales teams, we've been very clear about the type of
patients that is going to benefit from it. It's a big portion of patients, but this is for eosinophilic
disease. We've got some very clear indicators about patients that will benefit from that. And
that's what we're really encouraging physicians to focus on.
And so one thing that also has happened I think in almost every case that first patient that they
tried, they saw a positive result. And this is certainly true in the U.S., but I think everywhere. If you
are using an expensive – a little bit out-of-the-ordinary biologic and that with first patient you try, it
doesn't work. That's a real impediment for sort of future prescription. And so the teams have
done a great job of helping physicians really find the right patients early so that they understand
the benefits of it and then, they can continue to look for the right patients.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Sounds like we have resolved the technology issue. So let's go back to `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. from Exane.
Simon, can you ask your question?
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Yes. Can you hear me now?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. Go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Perfect. Thank you for bearing with me. Continuation on Fasenra, as you just said – in the previous
question you said that the Q2 performance was considerably more impressive than we were
expecting. So I know it's still early days, but could you talk about how the trajectory of Fasenra
launch is going versus your expectations? I noticed that consensus expectations even by 2023
are still sort of sub-blockbuster status. How does that qualitatively compare with what you
expect? And related to that, how has this informed your expectations and plans for tezepelumab
down the line? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Mark, do you want to cover this? If you ask the question about expectations, you're going to get
different responses from different people even in the company. You have great believers and
people who are more conservative as you will expect. Mark, do you want to cover this?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
I think, as I said in the opening, although I had it in a phrase, it is it's in line with our high
expectations that we had for it and some, at least from my perspective. We had high
expectations. We knew it was a great clinical profile. We knew the teams were ready, but they're
doing that and something more. And we're getting to discussions because we're coming up to
the planning cycle and Pascal will be setting targets for us. And my colleagues won't be happy if I
make that more challenging than it needs to be. But it's really, really a great kickoff and we
expected it, but it's meeting that and more.
In terms of tezepelumab, I mean, the science and the data that we've seen thus far, as I said, that
we should really move as fast as we can and as comprehensively as we can to understand whatthis medicine could mean for asthma patients. And this only confirms that a right medicine can
make a huge difference. And as I said before, you've got to really focus on the right patients. And
so there are a number of patients that aren't going to benefit from Fasenra. And what we've
seen with tezepelumab being upstream, the potential that it could benefit many more patients
says we should be moving as fast as we can. And we're certainly doing the right science. And so
that's what's happening, studies are up and running. And there's a very high degree of
excitement within the Respiratory community around tezepelumab.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We have another question online from `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. at Barclays. Emmanuel, do you want
to ask your question?
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Certainly. So thank you for taking the question. Maybe I can take one for Dave on Imfinzi. You
talked previously, end of Q1, around half of unresectable patients getting concurrent CRT. The
question I was going to ask is, is that number moving at all before you start to think about the half
of those then getting an IO agent such as Imfinzi? And then the second question I was going to
take, if you allow me, was for – I don't know if it's better for Mark or Sean – but it was on the
DECLARE study. Your expectations about that potentially achieving a primary prevention
indication, as well as the secondary prevention to your competitor, major competitor in that space
already has, would be very interested to hear your thoughts on that? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Dave, do you want to cover the Imfinzi one, and Sean, the DECLARE?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Global Head Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah. So thanks, Emmanuel, for the question. Our efforts since launch have really focused in on
driving Imfinzi use among those physicians who have already begun concurrent CRT as their
standard treatment for Stage III patients. We have begun also, though, to see some growth in the
use of concomitant CRT within the United States. It grows more slowly, and it's something that we
will move to put more effort behind. But right now, we are really staying focused on making sure
that for that on-label population where we see that the greatest opportunity is to have physicians
add Imfinzi onto what already is their treatment that they're using for curative intent, which is CRT.
A - `Sean Bohen, Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development `
The question on DECLARE, thank you for the question. So I guess a couple components there.
You asked specifically about primary prevention patients. So DECLARE has 17,000-patient trial.
And actually, the majority of those patients have not had a previous cardiovascular event, about
10,000. They would be primary prevention. The remaining patients are the secondary prevention,
as we said, a place where this has already been demonstrated with an SGLT2 inhibitor.
With regard to the primary prevention, actually the endpoint itself is all of the patients together,
so it will be the patients in totality. So for the trial to be positive, it has to be everyone. And it is
our hope that if that's the case that an indication would reflect the trial that was done. So I think
that's the answer to that question.
You asked me a little bit about confidence. I think both the secondary prevention established data
and then there's our real-world evidence work, I would say, with looking at SGLT2 inhibition insupports the idea that SGLT2 inhibitors in general and Farxiga in particular is quite potent for
helping to reduce cardiovascular risk clearly related to heart failure.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Just to follow up on Fasenra, so my assumption is that GSK had started using external medical
KOLs to market the drug contrary to their existing strategy. Given where they're positioned and
given it's difficult to relaunch a product, is that something that concerns you from a competitive
point of view? And if that isn't a concern because it's too late, then what do you think the risk of
your competitor playing the pricing card given the density of competitors in this space and given
the PBM market?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
So let me make a couple comments and certainly others – and, Pascal, jump in here. So I can't
comment on what GSK's practice is, how they might change or evolve. We remain very confident
in the future prospects for Fasenra based on, as we've been talking about, the profile of the
product and the capabilities of the team. And we've got an ambitious life cycle management plan
and also additional Phase IV studies to continue to build on the profile of the product. And I think
we're going to continue to build our capabilities in the U.S. and around the world.
In terms of what options they might do to improve the competitiveness, I don't know. The things
you've highlighted are potential levers. The success that we're having, we don't feel that – we
feel the price that we have for Fasenra is in line with the value and the differentiation. And so
we're going to keep focusing on the levers that I think really will make a difference for the
patients and the performance of the brand.
If you think about what the potential for Fasenra is and what's the most important factor, it's
actually the thing I mentioned at the end of the section. Less than one in 10 severe asthma
patients that are eligible for biologics actually get a biologic. And we certainly see the potential
for this class, for biologics to get over 30% of severe asthma patients or more.
And so as we continue to move on, we'll continue to emphasize the profile of the product, but
we're going to be, and we are already upping our efforts onto really helping reach those patients
in the U.S. through consumer advertising, through major medical education programs to really
reach those patients and get them treated. That's the biggest opportunity for Fasenra. I think
we've got a product that will sustain its leadership in the IL-5 category. But what will really
determine the potential is how good a job we get to the patients today that should have access
to a biologic but aren't having it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I would only add two comments actually on this. Number one, if you are in a diabetes market, an
anti-diabetic agent can be differentiated, but for the patient it just reduces glucose, so they don't
really necessarily feel the difference. Here, if you have a differentiated agent, because it works
faster and you have a stronger depletion of eosinophil, the patient feels better. The patient will
experience the difference. So when you have more differentiation, the price leverage is harder to
play.But also, the second point is more technical, is in Part B. As long as you are on Part B, price
strategies are really short-lived. As you know, six months later, your price is reset down. And so
basically, you don't get much out of a price reduction. You get a bit of an advantage for six
months on top of it. Then you have to make sure – I mean you have to make sure – you
theoretically should make sure your customer know about the price difference. In fact, you can't
even – you can't do it, of course. It's not compliant and you can't promote it. So your benefit is
limited, and then it's short-lived.
So I think the price question is Part B. there may be some, but for the reasons I've described,
there should be a limit.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Part B and Part D on Fasenra?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Now when you move to Part D, that's a different story. We are in Part B.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
You're in Part B.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
If you move to Part D, because you have a different administration, say, home administration or
whatever, then at that point, of course the Part D mechanisms can put more pressure on price.
But in Part B, it's really hard. I mean it's possible, but it's more limited.
Let me take two questions online here, one from `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. at Credit Suisse. And, Jo, do you
want to go ahead?
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Two quick ones, one, I'm afraid again on Fasenra. It's coming back to something that you just
mentioned. You are looking for home administration. And I wondered how important you felt
getting home administration at some point in the future would be to unlocking some of that one
in 10 or moving from the one in 10 with biologics to a much higher number.
And the second one was on China and Pulmicort. You've managed to solve the supply constraints.
You had an extraordinarily strong 2Q. How much of that was refilling the pipeline and how much
of that is an indication of underlying demand going forward? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I don't know that we have the answer to your second question. Maybe `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical can give you
some insight here. I guess the simple way to look at it would be to say look at the first half
because it's normalized across the two quarters. But, Mark, if you have anything more on
Pulmicort and also if you want to cover the first question?
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
No. I think looking at the first half in total is probably the right way to go for Pulmicort in China.And then in terms of the home or self-administration as a life cycle plan, I think it could be another
tool in helping expand the class, expand capacity. The severe asthma centers are limited in many
countries, and so how many patients they can actually see. I think both will continue to be
important. Some physicians or patients will prefer to continue to have an in-office administration.
Others would prefer in-home administration. So it will meet unmet needs, and so we're definitely
pursuing it aggressively. I think it can play a role in getting it to more patients.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Mark. One thing we don't mention maybe enough is, as a reminder, Fasenra is an
injection every two months. So that is a reasonable pace or reason, if you will, for the patient to
go back to the physician. They don't have mild to moderate asthma. They have severe asthma.
Seeing a physician every couple of months for an injection is not necessarily a bad thing for the
patient. So the benefit of home administration is there, but it's not as strong when you have a
product like Fasenra.
So we'll take the last question, `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch at Bank of America. Go ahead, Sachin.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for fitting me on the call. Just two quick ones. You framed in your introduction a slowdown
in the SGLT2 market, (01:17:08) down sort of 5% volume growth from mid-teens. Maybe you can
just provide your perspective on reasons for that. I guess it's a little bit surprising, given the
cardiovascular data that's out there for the space. And then secondly on roxa for Mark, sort of a
follow-on from the prior question. Which of the two opportunities, pre-dialysis versus dialysis, are
you most excited by and do you think you could penetrate the quickest if the data came through
as a base case as non-inferior in both scenarios? Thank you.
A - `Mark Mallon, Executive Vice-President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical `
So I'll take the second question first, actually. I'm excited about both opportunities. It's hard to say
which one. And I think in terms of penetration, I think if we deliver on the target part of profile for
the dialysis, I mean, this is potentially a transformative opportunity. Again, if we hit the profile, got
the elimination of the concerns around the cardiovascular risk, you've got an oral therapy, one
from the studies that we've already seen in China on hemoglobin control works in a full range of
patients, not impacted by things like inflammation, not having to deal with iron. It's really a benefit
for patients in a dialysis setting. Of course, we have to go through that market access discussions
and we've started that work, but I think the uptake could be there very rapidly. But in the NDD,
that will probably be a slower build because we have to create that market. But, again, if it hits
the target profile, I mean, the benefits are going to be very significant for patients, right. Living
with anemia for many years has a number of negative consequences. And so we'll have to
educate and create that market, but I'd say it will take time, but it's a chance to impact a huge
number of patients in Stage III and Stage IV renal disease.
In terms of the SGLT2 class, I think the short answer is that because we've had some side effects
like the DKA, like with one of the competitors where there've been some reports of amputation
and there was a labeling change, that makes it – and SGLT2 isn't in primary care physician's mind,
so not a specialist mind, not quite as easy to use as something like a DPP-4, which is an excellent
medicine for treating – managing glucose. And so we still have a lot of work to do to making sure
that they really understand the benefit. And as Sean was saying, right, the initial studies was in a
pretty limited group of patients with pretty significant CV risk. And so for a primary care physician,
it's a little bit of a question, do I really see those patients? And so the combination of the two, Ithink, have been a factor in the growth. This is – I would say primarily mostly in the U.S. and a few
other countries. In many countries, actually, the class code is – I should have clarified this, is good.
And I think, really, DECLARE, if it reads out positively, will help to address on all of those fronts
because it will strengthen the cardiovascular benefit profile. And if it reconfirms the safety and
tolerability profile of Farxiga, I think will also help in terms of physicians feeling confident. So I think
we can actually improve the overall risk benefit kind of working on both sides of that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, DECLARE is key because of the cardiovascular events, but also because of the safety
database that will come with it. And if we get behind – if the study is positive and we get behind
it, we certainly can go over class that has enormous potential.
So, we'll stop here and thank you for your questions. I just want to close by, again, thanking my
colleagues from around the world and leaving you with this message again that our strategy is
working. We are finally getting to the point where our new products are growing rapidly. And I
know I am repeating myself, but we can't say it often enough. Another few quarters and we will
be done with those patent expiries and we'll be in a very, very different place. Thank you very
much for all your interest and your patience.