Q3 2018 Earnings Call - Q&A

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Tesla Q3 2018 Financial Results and Q&A
webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct the
question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. As a reminder, this
conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations, Senior Director
of Investor Relations. Mr. Viecha, you may begin.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sherry, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Tesla's third quarter 2018 Q&A
webcast. I'm joined today by Elon Musk, JB Straubel, `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer and a number of other
executives. Our Q3 results were announced at about 1:00 PM Pacific Time in the update letter we
published at the same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portions of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow-up. But before we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Martin. So I'll make some opening remarks, and then we're going to talk about vehicle
safety, autopilot and factory safety. And we have a number of people from Tesla here to
elaborate on that. I think there's just a lot going on that you would find interesting.
But I want to start by thanking all of our customers, employees and shareholders. This was an
incredibly historic quarter for Tesla. Model 3 production stabilized. We delivered a total of 84,000
vehicles globally, which is more than 80% of the vehicles that we delivered in all of 2017.
In fact, we delivered more cars in this quarter than we did in all of 2016 in a single quarter. Model
3 became the best-selling car in the U.S. in terms of revenue and the fifth best-selling car in terms
of volume. We saw higher revenues and significantly better profitability in our energy business. In
fact, I think for solar it may have been the best quarter ever for solar.
We achieved GAAP net income of over $300 million, increased cash and equivalents by $731
million, and achieved a greater than 20% gross margin for Model 3. And, moreover, we expect to
again have positive net income and cash flow in Q4. And I believe our aspirations I think will be for
all quarters going forward.
I think we can actually be positive cash flow for all quarters going forward, leaving aside quarters
where we may need to do a significant repayment; for example, in Q1 next year. But I think, even
in Q1, I think we can be approximately flat in cash flow by end of quarter.
This quarter was made possible by the incredible execution of our employees across the board,
from sales, production, delivery, service, energy, engineering, finance and all of our G&A teams.
Really every part of the business executed incredibly well. I want to thank everyone again for your
incredibly hard work. I especially want to thank customers who helped.
It's like – I've never even heard of this. Maybe this has happened before, but I've never heard of a
case where a company's customers actually cared about the future of the company so much that
they volunteered their time to help the company succeed. I think that's amazing. You don't see
that anywhere. So, yeah, it really chokes me up actually.
This quarter, we started rolling out Version 9 of our software, which is our biggest software
upgrade in two years. And Model 3 received a five-star safety rating in every category and
subcategory. And it got the lowest probability of injury of any car that the U.S. government has
ever tested.
Looking ahead, we expect to produce and sell even more Model 3s in Q4, and expect that trend
to continue into Q1. And we're excited to bring Model 3 to Europe and China early next year,
given that the market for midsize premium sedans in those regions is even larger than in North
America.
I've said before that we must prove that Tesla can be sustainably profitable. This quarter was an
important step towards that and I'm incredibly excited about what lies ahead. So this is, yeah –
just so proud of the Tesla team, our customers. Really appreciate the support of our long-term
shareholders. And I just want to say on behalf of the Tesla team, we're super appreciative of your
support to what has actually been a really difficult time.
All right. Now, let's start off with the vehicle safety. Madan, who's our lead vehicle safety engineer;
been with the company for a long time. Madan, how many years has it been that we've been
working together?`Madan Gopal, Principal Safety Engineer `
It's my 10th year. 10 years.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
10 years. Wow. So, yeah, I've been working with Madan for 10 years. We've had so many
conversations on vehicle safety. Wow. And you know what, we're really going to try to go the
extra mile with vehicle safety, not just – like there's a series of government mandated tests, but
what some companies do is they game the system. So they know where the side pole impact is
going to be. They strengthen it right in that position. At Tesla, we're like, okay, what is the
weakest point in the car? Let us test it at that position. So the actual safety is not fully captured in
the test because we anti-game the system.
Madan, if you could?
`Madan Gopal, Principal Safety Engineer `
Thank you, Elon. Just want to give you a very quick background about myself. Like I said, joined
Tesla 10 years. I'm extremely really happy to mention working with extraordinary set of very
passionate and very hard-working individuals, and that essentially shows in our product. So that's
very important for us.
And also important is our principal mission statement on safety, because what we want to do is,
safety has been – is probably the important factor for our vehicle. It's not just for electric vehicle;
any vehicle period. And that fundamentally differentiates us, which essentially helps us to keep
adding new features and new safety technology. And that's very important and that shows in
Model 3; latest things that we have.
Also, the fact that we have electric vehicle, the design and architecture gives us a fundamental
benefit over traditional vehicles. And that takes care of, for example, whether you have a block of
engine in the front, where we can work with using pretty much open architecture in the front and
the whole fact that you have all the electrical and high-voltage and motors and all of that almost
below the center of gravity of the vehicle gives lowest probability to produce a lower risk. It
significantly benefits.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think architecturally we have Newton on our side. And having Isaac Newton on your side is
definitely the way to go.
`Madan Gopal, Principal Safety Engineer `
Exactly. So in the latest series of tests, I would like to specifically talk about Model 3. Alexa did a
series of tests, actually four tests, for one front door, two side and one rollover test. And if you
look at it, we've been calculating how can we distinguish within the five-star. There are so many
vehicles that already gets five-star. And if you look at within the five-star.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
They're just all the same. They're all the same.
`Madan Gopal, Principal Safety Engineer `Exactly. So if you look there, there is a metrics we came up with which is a part of US-NCAP rating
itself, has the lowest probability of injury, and Model 3 has the lowest. And just to give you a
context, there are total of 900-plus vehicles since 2011 which have been rated. So the fact that
Model 3 is the best among all the 943, to be exact. So that speaks to volume. And I'm very happy
to say that Model 3 has achieved.
We are not stopping right now. What we would like to do next is how we can make use of the
active safety and autopilot features and make it even more improvement so the next area that
we are focusing on how to integrate active and passive safety. That's our next area of challenge,
which we will improve for sure.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Regarding that the safety extends to not just people in the car, but also pedestrians.
`Madan Gopal, Principal Safety Engineer `
Correct.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So not having a big engine block in the front of the car is really helpful simply because if the
car were to hit a pedestrian – we'll get to active safety next, because the best thing is obviously
not to hit a car or a pedestrian. The fact that the hood can dent so far in is really helpful, because
it ends up being sort of like a trampoline, or like a – you don't have a rock underneath it. It's very
helpful. So it's helpful for pedestrian safety and for the safety of the people in the car.
And then, even if you have like a head-on collision with another car, the extended sort of crumple
zone of a Tesla Model S, Model X or Model 3 is helpful to the people in the Tesla and the people
in the other car. So it's not just the people in the car.
`Madan Gopal, Principal Safety Engineer `
I'd like to add one item, which is essentially how we look at real-world safety, which has always
been an important for Elon. So if you look at our block post, we showed how we handle the
center pole impact in the frontal. By the way, that's not part of NCAP rating. It is just to show how
we go over and above the NCAP rating to make sure it's real-world safety. Yes. That's very
important for us.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Exactly. That's what I meant by we, like, anti-game the system. Like, what is the worst way that the
car could be hit? Not just sort of strength where we know this test will happen and that kind of
thing. So, obviously, we're all in these cars, our friends are in these cars, our families are in the car,
so we care about safety. And a lot of people think safety is boring, but not Tesla.
So thanks, Madan.
`Madan Gopal, Principal Safety Engineer `
Thank you.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you for your decade of hard work and the rest of the safety team. And with that, let's
move on to autopilot. And you guys could just give an update on sort of autopilot software, AI
and hardware. Yeah.
`Stuart Bowers, Vice President of Engineering `
That's great. This is `Stuart Bowers, Vice President of Engineering. We will soon begin to roll out the team's most advanced
autopilot feature ever, Navigate on Autopilot. In our last release, we launched a new set of neural
networks that, combined together, provide a view of everything happening around the car. With
Navigate on Autopilot, we'll use information to understand exactly where the car is on the
highway system and to automatically change lanes, handle forks and take high-curvature exits to
follow a map route.
Initially, it will require drivers to confirm lane changes using the turn signal before the car moves
into an adjacent lane. Future versions will allow customers to waive the confirmation requirement
if they choose to.
One area that I'm personally really excited to build on this improvement is active safety. With the
advancement in neural networks covering 360 degrees of view around our car, we can provide a
level of constant vigilance that humans just can't. Ultimately, this shall allow us to warn or even
intervene for an enormous percentage of modern accidents and to ship these improvements as
software upgrades to our existing customers.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
We see this all the time in the data, where the car will do an automatic braking event and save a
pedestrian or another car from impact. This happens all the time.
`Stuart Bowers, Vice President of Engineering `
All the time.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, all the time. Usually, every day but very briefly.
`Stuart Bowers, Vice President of Engineering `
Yeah. The team has done an incredible work here. And by bringing up more of the cameras
around the car, we can detect things as they come toward us, not just directly in front of us.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
`Stuart Bowers, Vice President of Engineering `
Pete?
`Peter Bannon, Director
Hi. This is Pete Bannon. The hardware 3 design is continuing to move along. Over the last quarter,
we've completed a qualification of the silicon and qualification of the board. We started the
manufacturing line and qualification of the manufacturing line. We've been validating the
provisioning flows in the factory.We've built test versions of Model S, Model X and Model 3 in the factory to validate all the fit and
finish of the parts and all the provisioning flows. So we still have a lot of work to do, and the
team's doing a great job. And we're still on track to have it ready to go by the end of Q1.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. And that'll be on roughly a 1,000% increase I trust and capability compared to the current
hardware. And so, it's obviously a giant improvement despite being about – it costs about the
same. Cost volume and car consumption are approximately the same as the current hardware,
but it's a tenfold improvement in frames per second. And improved redundancy as well.
But very important to emphasize is that the only thing that needs to change between a car that's
produced today and a car that's, say, produced in the second quarter of next year is swapping
out the autopilot computer. And this is a simple change that takes less than half an hour in service
to upgrade the computer. And so, anyone will be able to upgrade their car to full self-driving
capability with a simple service visit. So we expect all cars with the hardware to sensor suite.
Basically, anything made in the last, roughly, two years will be upgradable to full self-driving.
`Peter Bannon, Director
Yes. In fact, a lot of the cars we're using for testing today have, in fact, been upgraded from
hardware too.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Right. So it's very important to emphasize, like people shouldn't wonder who would want to wait
until that comes out. But there's no need to wait until that comes out because it's just a very
simple plug-and-play change to get to full self-driving. And anyone who's paid for the full self-
driving option will just get it done for free. And anyone who still wants to order full self-driving at
this point, it's just an off-menu item. You can still order it, but we took it off the order menu just
because it was creating a lot of friction in the sales process and people didn't understand the
difference between enhanced autopilot and full self-driving.
So just to simplify the order process, we took that off, but anyone who asked for it can certainly
get it. And it really ends up being a discount on future capability. But to be clear, there's definitely
no need to wait until Q2 to order a car. We want to make it just a completely seamless process,
so there's no advantage ordering now versus Q2.
Andrej, do you want to...
`Andrej Karpathy, Director of Artificial Intelligence `
Yeah, absolutely. Hi, everyone. My name is `Andrej Karpathy, Director of Artificial Intelligence. I'm the Director of AI here at Tesla,
and my team trains all of the neural networks that analyze the images streaming in from all the
cameras for the autopilot. For example, these neural networks identify cars, lane lines, traffic
signs and so on.
The team is incredibly excited about the upcoming upgrade for the autopilot computer, which
Pete briefly talked about. This upgrade allows us to not just run the current neural networks faster,
but more importantly it will allow us to deploy much larger computationally more expensive
networks to the fleet.
The reason this is important is that it is a common finding in the industry – and we see this as well
– is that as you make the networks bigger by adding more neurons, the accuracy of all of theirpredictions increases with the added capacity. So in other words, we are currently at a place
where we've trained large neural networks that work very well, but we are not able to deploy
them to the fleet due to computational constraints.
So all of this will change with an acceleration of the hardware and it's a massive step
improvement in the compute capability. And the team is incredibly excited to get these networks
out there.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you. And I've said this before, but I think I was talking a bit about the kind of longer
term future. We absolutely see the future as sort of a shared electric autonomy, so that you'll be
able to do ride-hailing or share your car in any way, sort of long-term model that's probably some
combination of like Uber, Lyft and Airbnb. In other words, there'll be Tesla-dedicated cars for ride-
hailing and any customer will be able to share their car at will, just like you share your house on
Airbnb.
So it's the combination of those two models, I think, is pretty obviously where things are headed
long-term. The advantage that Tesla will have is that we'll have millions of cars in the field with full
autonomy capability, and no one else will have that. So I think that will end up putting us in the
strongest competitive position long-term.
And then, Laurie, can you finish it off with the talk about factory safety? And thank you for the hard
work of you and your team, and I think we've made great strides. And, yeah, please go ahead.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHS
Yes. Thanks. Yeah, we have the safest cars made by the safest people. So it's exciting time here
at Tesla. All car and manufacturing factories have injuries. At Tesla, we have a commitment to
zero injuries and our target is actually on good reporting. So we have good reporting of injuries,
good reporting of near misses, good observation and lots of improvements. So to be the safest
company in the world, we have to be committed to that; and everybody here is. So we're actually
steadily getting there and we're not going to stop till we're there.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. So you were mentioning like, for example, we have some sort of, for example, we do
get these like quite unfair accusations. For example, one of them was like that we were under-
reporting injuries, and it's worth noting that OSHA completed their investigation and concluded
we have not been doing anything of the sort.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHS
Correct. Correct. The factory here had a four-month long Cal/OSHA investigation and it basically
proves that we are recording properly and doing as we should be. So it's much different than
what you would read about in the press.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, this is true.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHSYeah, yeah. I'm very proud of the team for that. One point I think people don't know is, I've been
here about a year now. Time flies when you're having so much fun.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Feels like 12 years.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHS
I know. But when I joined, we were already really a fraction – our injury rate was a fraction of what
it had been when Toyota and GM ran the factory in the newbie days. So what we're all about is
really continuing to make improvements from there. And what's also important is not to have
serious injuries, and that's extremely rare here at Tesla. We have really strong focus on
prevention and also mitigating controls so that these types of injuries don't occur. I mean, most of
the injuries that we have are muscular sprains and things like that.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So essentially it's muscle strain and getting scratched. That's most of it.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHS
Exactly. Hand and finger cuts and sprains. So I kind of just want to break down a few things that
my team is been working on along with all the leaders here. First, it's people engagement. So
one of the first things is meeting with you, Elon. We meet with you on a regular basis. We meet
with all the production leaders. So it's full on engagement on improving safety. We have built a
really strong EHS team, the best and the brightest.
And our EHS team is actually embedded into the line on the factory because we learn the
process and we learn the people. You don't know how to improve unless you're out there on the
line, on the process, engaging with the associates, listening and learning from our associates.
So we have really strong engagement, health and safety committees. We do find it, fix it walks.
Our leaders are out there walking and also looking for improvements. And actually just this
quarter, we had over 15,000 improvements. I mean, that's like amazing. So very exciting about
that.
We also look at risk reduction and human performance. People are going to make mistakes, so
we're going to design in so we fail safely. We have an Early Symptom Intervention program. This
is where we have industrial athletes go out on the line and work with our associates before
anything happens. Like if you have a pain, let's work it out, let's strengthen and really get our
employees fit. So we're doing that.
We've also just opened a new and improved health clinic, so when injuries do occur, we get the
absolute best care for our associates. And it's actually overseen by one of California's leading
orthopedic surgeons, and we did that because most of our injuries, like we said, like 80%, 85%
are either sprains and strains. So now, they get that best care here on-site. And we have 24/7
care. It's actually staffed by three full-time doctors and nurses, and I'm really super happy with the
care they're giving and I think the employees are as well. And the third...
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we're going to expand on that, so Tesla's sort of health clinic both at Fremont and at Giga.
We have a really immediate first-class healthcare available right on the spot when people need it.And this is not just for workplace; this is for workplace and non-workplace.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHS
I know, that's super exciting. We're (23:03) the world.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, if you become injured or ill for any reason, then there's healthcare immediately outside.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHS
That's where we plan to go. Exactly. And then, finally, just being proactive because that's what
we're about, innovation and proactive. I mean, we join national safety organizations, we partner
with many leading universities including California Berkeley, Center for Occupational and
Environmental Health. We do presentations there. We work with the automotive industry and do
benchmarking all the time. We're always looking and bringing people in to look for things that we
can do better and for new technology and innovations and safety.
And with all of that, we have made improvements in our injury rates, we are more than 10%
better year-over-year in our lost workdays and our days away, but the most important thing is
we're also getting all those good engagement observations, they're moving up. So injuries down,
observations engagement up.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
All right.
`Laurie Shelby, Vice President, EHS
Thank you.
`Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Laurie. And we will provide regular updates on workplace safety. And our goal
unequivocally is to have the safest factories in the world, where people look forward to coming to
work in the morning. So it's like, yeah, that's our goal.
All right. With that, can we move to questions?
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Cool. Well, thank you very much. And, Sherry, let's go to the first question, please.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from Dan Galves with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Director - Automotive Equity Research, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Hey. Thanks for taking my questions. Congratulations on the quarter. It's really amazing to see this
landmark quarter after covering the company for so long. And thanks for bringing some of your
team onto the call. It's very interesting. My question is about cell supply. There has been some
noise about tight cell supply and sparks and tight labor supply. In the short-term, could you justtalk about whether demand is outpacing supply of battery cells and kind of what's your plan for
long-term expansion, including cell supply in China?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
JB, do you want to take that?
A - `Jeffrey B. Straubel, Chief Technical Officer `
Sure. I can speak to that. This is JB. We have had a period where the supply was fairly tight for
Model 3, but it did not really constrain the Model 3 production in any significant way.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, like for a week.
A - `Jeffrey B. Straubel, Chief Technical Officer `
Yeah, maybe for a few days.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Jeffrey B. Straubel, Chief Technical Officer `
The impact was larger felt on the energy products. And that still is somewhat tight, but we do, as
we pointed out in previous discussions, we do have third-party supplies of energy cells. So that
production can continue even independently of the Panasonic supply in sparks. So that's been
very helpful. And that is expanding in future quarters. And also, the Panasonic supply is expanding.
The productivity of existing lines is continuing to improve with a lot of hard work from the
engineering teams and just operational stability. And we continue to bring online new production
lines.
So even just in the last several weeks, we've started off yet another cell production line with
Panasonic. And through the end of the year, there's another line coming on, and then one shortly
after that. So there's a steady increase in the total supply that should keep us ahead of even
Model 3 growth and also should let us have a larger percentage of energy supply be sourced
from Giga, locally.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. We are making a pretty nutty amount of the world's lithium-ion batteries. And, Martin, I think
we're about a 60% or something...
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Yes. So at the moment, if you'd look at, for example, for Q3, all electric vehicles made around the
world, their total battery capacity was about 20-gigawatt or 19-gigawatt hours; and what we
produced in Q3 was about the same or a little bit higher. So about half of world's batteries
basically.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, that's because we also saw cells from Japan and elsewhere. Is that (27:13)...A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Yeah. So just the Giga itself is about 20 and on top of that S and X is, I don't know, another four or
five ?
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Director - Automotive Equity Research, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Got it. No, it's a huge advantage. Is there plans that you can talk about for cell supply in China?
Will that be produced in China? I'm assuming so.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Long-term, it would be produced in China. Short-term, we are not certain of the short-term
situation, but long-term certainly.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Director - Automotive Equity Research, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Got it. Okay. Thanks very much.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu with New Street Research.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, New Street Research LLP (US) `
Hey. Thank you for taking my questions. I was very surprised with the numbers you reported
today by – that your gross margin performance on the Model 3. So if I remember correctly, you
were expecting more like a 15% target margin for this quarter and you actually did better than
20%. So can you take us through what improved like faster and better than you had initially
anticipated in the manufacturing line and where these improvements came from?
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Deepak here, and Jerome and others, please feel free to join. Our improvements on the cost
side were in every aspect of costs. So, clearly, our manufacturing labor hours improved
significantly. Our overall manufacturing costs dropped almost 30% sequentially Q2 to Q3. We
produced more volume, so we had better fixed cost absorption. We had far less scrap. Our yield
on each of the lines across both factories improved significantly. And as we look forward, we see
even more opportunities. We are going through this phase where we are now stabilizing
production, and the team can now intensely focus on cost optimization. And that trend will just
continue in Q4.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think we're also being relatively on the conservative side when we predicted – when we
said like 15%, we were being...
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Right. Our expectation was we would do better, but we want to be conservative. You're right in
terms of our guidance that we gave for Q3.Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, New Street Research LLP (US) `
Okay. Thanks. That's great. And then, as a quick follow-up, you've announced over the weekend
like a mid-range car with a smaller battery bag. And I was wondering as you are looking at
expanding collection of the Model 3. I think about it as you have two options. One was to grow
and to keep producing higher and higher ASP cars; and the other one was to go forward – lower-
cost car and stick to the U.S. So how did you decide the sequencing of these two things? Why is
lower car now and going abroad only early next year?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we try to provide the most affordable electric car options that we can. And since we can't –
we just don't have the ability to get to the $35,000 car right away, we thought this might be a
way to offer it as an intermediate step. And that's really it. We expect to start producing at
significant volume for Europe in January. And obviously take some time to ship, so deliveries –
pretty significant deliveries in Europe kind of in the late February, March timeframe because cars
have to ship away from California to a customer in Europe. And for us, a car only count as
delivered if it reaches the end-customer and all the paperwork is completed correctly. So it's the
highest possible standard for considering a sale a sale.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, New Street Research LLP (US) `
And also to the APAC you'd start delivering cars.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, but, we may or may not deliver cars in APAC in Q1. But certainly in Q2. It will be kind of
borderline as whether a car is delivered in APAC by the end of Q1. So I can't say it for certain.
Definitely in Europe. But, and then, definitely in APAC in Q2.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Okay. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Romit Shah with Nomura Instinet.
Q - `Romit Jitendra Shah, Analyst, Nomura Instinet `
Yes. Thank you. I guess just along those lines, you indicated that you're going to bring Model 3 to
Europe early next year. Where would you like to see production in order to support that ramp
overseas?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, initially production will occur. I mean, in the next several months all production is, vehicle
production will take place at our car plant in California.
Q - `Romit Jitendra Shah, Analyst, Nomura Instinet `
Sorry, I meant to ask where would you like to see that production rate on a weekly basis go to in
order to support that ramp?A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's hard to predict with accuracy. And there's also – like all the tariff wars and everything. So
long term we are not talking about next quarter. So like what it is likely global demand for Model
3? It's probably on the order of anywhere from 500,000 to 1,000,000 cars a year, I'd say, good
global demand for Model 3. If you look something like say the 3 Series, Martin, that's around 0.5
million.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
0.5 million.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
The BMW 3 Series is about 0.5 million a year globally. And generally, we find that we outcompete
the BMW 3 Series quite well. So it seems like logical, therefore, that we would want to have a
higher production – or higher demand. Maybe it's somewhere between the – kind of the BMW 3
Series and the Volkswagen Golf, which is about 1 million units a year. So yeah, that's right. It's
anywhere from 500,000 to 1 million units a year long term.
Q - `Romit Jitendra Shah, Analyst, Nomura Instinet `
And do you have to add new lines to support that, or are – just going to continue to remove
bottlenecks in the existing lines?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
No. We're definitely going to do local production in China. We are moving rapidly on that. So
we're striving to have Model 3 production for the China market, for the Greater China market
active certainly next year; it will be happening next year. But it will be done with – in a very capital-
efficient manner. Much more akin to the way we did general assembly line four versus general
assembly line three. And then we will also have a factory in Europe long term because it's pretty
silly to make cars in California and ship them all the way to Europe that's far.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Especially in high volumes.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, exactly. Especially if it's a – I'm not talking about S and X; I'm just talking about the Model 3.
So S and X will continue to be made in California. I think probably exclusively here. But for cars
we're trying to maximize affordability, it makes a lot of sense to produce those cars at least in the
continent where they are consumed (35:18)
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Okay. Let's go to the next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `George Galliers, Managing Director, EVERCORE ISI with Evercore.
Q - `George Galliers, Managing Director, EVERCORE ISI `Thank you. Maybe just following up on the previous question. Is the target still to produce 10,000
Model 3s a week in Fremont? And I think you mentioned in the past that once you got to a run
rate of around 5,000, you'd be better placed to assess what CapEx is required to get that. So as
of today, do you have a better idea of what CapEx is required to get to that kind of level at
Fremont?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we're not prepared to speak to that right now, except that it will be considerably less than
money that we spent to get to 5,000 in the first place, like quite – I think quite dramatically less.
So I like probably see a path to like 7,000 units a week for Model 3 with really minimal CapEx.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Very minimal.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, very minimal to get to 7,000 a week. And then that's really just basically slowly improving
the uptime of the existing lines and we can do 7,000 a week.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
So – and then it gets a little harder as we start to go above 7,000. We need to at least bring lines
down in Fremont for significant upgrades to get to 10K, but also just not – we're not talking about
massive amounts of CapEx. But I would say like long-term, it's – again, long-term, it's – predicting
things on a quarter by quarter basis is very difficult because when you have an exponential
growth rate like we do – I mean if you look at Tesla cumulative deliveries over time, that's like the
cleanest exponential curve that I've ever seen.
So – but small movements in calendar time can look like a very large hit or miss, one way or the
other, because it's such a steep curve. That's why it's always tricky to predict things on a quarterly
basis. But a lot easier if you go out a year or so. Yeah. I mean probably long term, it's at least sort
of 7,000 to 10,000 cars from Fremont of Model 3 and then – I don't know – 5,000 to 8,000 in
rest of world. Something like that. This is a guess.
Q - `George Galliers, Managing Director, EVERCORE ISI `
Okay. Thank you. And then just as a follow-up, in the letter you do point out that the size of the
European market for premium midsize sedans is roughly twice that of the U.S. Could you also
maybe just comment to what your expectations are for mix in Europe based off Model S and
Model X? Do you expect richer mix in Europe versus the U.S. or is it fairly similar?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
We've given that zero thought. I mean, it's just like it's not – I have no idea. I don't know. Martin, do
you have any idea?
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `No. All I'm aware of is that because of cold weather, probably all-wheel-drive and long battery
range will be highly demanded in Europe, but apart from that – we ultimately have to start selling
the car to see what the demand is, so.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it seems like it's likely to be comparable to – pretty much midsize sedans market is like twice
as big in Europe, then – well, it's likely to be at least as much demand in Europe as there are in
North America. Like, that's a pretty safe bet. But our goal really is to make electric cars that
everyone can afford, not to sort of mine high option value cars. It's like if we could produce the
$35,000 car today, we would do it. We need more work. There's more work to do before we can
make a $35,000 car and have it be part of the gross margin. We're probably less than six months
from that, but that's our mission.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Great. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Maynard Um, Senior Equity Research Analyst, Macquarie Group with Macquarie.
Q - `Maynard Um, Senior Equity Research Analyst, Macquarie Group `
Hi. Thank you. Congratulations on a great turning point for Tesla. As you continue to scale the
business, can you talk about how we should think about how you balance profits versus
reinvestments? You're targeting sustainable GAAP profitability and cash flow, but I'm curious if
there's a level of GAAP profitability or GAAP operating margin or cash flow you want to hold and
then take the excess to fund new growth or accelerate opportunities?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Maybe to characterize that question would be like are we starving new vehicle development
in order to achieve GAAP profitability and cash flow positive? Would that be an accurate – is that
essentially – the answer is no. So we've made significant progress on the Model Y, so in fact, I
approved the prototype to go into production recently. So it will be 2020 before that's in volume
production, but we made great progress there. Also continue to make progress on the semi and
the newer Tesla Roadster. And then actually product I'm personally most excited about is the
Tesla pickup truck.
I think that's going to reach some next level stuff there. And I should not forget to mention the
solar tile roof. We'll also start getting into volume production of the solar tile roof next year. That's
quite a long development cycle because anything that's roof has got to last 30 years. So even if
you do accelerate lab testing as fast as possible, there's still a minimum amount of time required
to do that and there's a lot of engineering that goes into how do you put on the solar tile roof
and not be really labor-intensive in doing so.
So there's a lot of engineering, not just in the tile but in the way it's done. And then we've got
continued improvements in Powerwall, Powerpack, other energy products. I think we've got the
most exciting product roadmap of any company on earth by far. I'm not even sure like probably
twice – I don't even know who would have – which company would have a better product
roadmap or even close. Maybe they do but I don't know about them.Great. And when you talk about Tesla having its own ride sharing fleet or giving people the ability
to loan out their car like an Airbnb model, I'm curious if your long-term plan is to build a platform
that's going to enable companies to write applications to turn the car directly into an application.
And then can you also maybe just talk about that business model? Should we be thinking more
about like a revenue sharing model sort of like how Apple takes a piece of revenue generated
for applications from iPhones? Thanks.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't know about turning the car into an application exactly, but I mean, maybe. But I try to do
the thing that maximizes usefulness, and so if there's a way where third parties could do
something, then that could make sense. But I do know for sure that Tesla will operate its own ride
hailing service. We'll compete directly with Uber and Lyft, obviously, and but then also have the
ability for customers to offer their car and add or subtract their car to the fleet at will. There will
be a company-owned fleet and the company-owned fleet will just be where there aren't enough
customer cars to be lent out.
So if we find a particular metro there aren't enough customers who are willing to add their car to
the shared fleet, then that's where we'll supplement it with a Tesla-owned fleet. So that's why it's
sort of a combination of the Uber/Lyft thing and Airbnb and then we would charge something
probably comparable to how the App Store works or I don't know, we'd charge 30% or
something in order for somebody to add their car to the fleet. I think that's like a pretty sensible
way to go. Yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Great. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks, everyone. First question is on governance. As the company conducts its search for a new
Chairman, what are the attributes and experiences of that person that you think would be a best
fit or best value for Tesla?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Actually, on this call we're going to restrict questions to operational topics. Do you have another
question?
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
No problem. Yes, I do. Can you tell us about the folks who are taking deliveries of Model 3? What
are the top cars, car models or brands that they're trading in or switching out of? How many are
new to the brand? Anything you're prepared to share, and then I have a follow-up.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Absolutely.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `Hey. This is Martin. So I've done the analyses of all the trade-ins that we've received and really the
only pattern that I've seen is that it sort of all across the board and the vast majority is non-
premium brands. I think that is the number one message is just that more than half of the trade-
ins we received were priced at below $35,000 when new. But other than that, there is no real
pattern. I haven't noticed anything worth highlighting other than it's just a lot of people upgrading
their cars quite dramatically.
A - Operator
Which is a huge upgrade.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. For most people – well, maybe for most, but for many people it is the most expensive car
they've ever bought. So they're clearly demonstrating with their money that they're willing to
spend extra money to get a Tesla. So Tesla seems like mass-market premium.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
The price lock is way beyond the Federal tax credit. So clearly there is value on top of what
they're receiving whether it's cost of ownership or the sustainability, whether it's the brand or the
source. (46:37)
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Safety.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
And safety. All of the above is making a large number of customers jump up significantly in the
purchase price.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Again really I could say, honestly, the top reason to refer a friend to buy Tesla is it's going to keep
your friend safe.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
That's a good reason. If I can just squeeze in, since I couldn't ask the first one that you could
answer, do you think that the third quarter is a milestone, Elon, where you think Tesla becomes
sustainably self-funding and perhaps not in need of outside capital? Thanks.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, that is our goal. We do not intend to raise equity or debt, at least that is not our intention
right now. That may change in the future, but the current operating plan is to pay off our debts
and not to refinance them, but to pay them off and reduce the debt load and overall leverage of
the company. And I actually almost forgot one quite important thing. This is quite helpful, why it's
helpful to have these sort of crisis situations with logistics, for example, as I look into the
inventory, like basically finish part inventory from factory to the customer, I was quite surprised to
see how long that took and that it was quite expensive in a lot of cases to get the cars to
customers.This was something I didn't fully appreciate before and we really have a major initiative at Tesla to
get the average time from a car exiting the factory to receiving a check from the customer or
being in the customers' hands, just to be clear we only get the check when we give the car to the
customer. So getting a car from factory to customer to get that to be as short as possible.
In August, the average time in North America to get a car from the factory to the customer was
30 days, which is embarrassingly long. By the end of the quarter, we had reduced it to around 22
days and our goal in Q4 – this is a goal, not a promise – but our goal is to get the average time of
a car from the factory to the customer under 10 days. This was a giant improvement in the capital
efficiency of the company. Because we're making on the order of $75 million worth of products
per day, of cars per day, so every day it requires $75 million worth of capital. So every 10 days it's
$750 million. And, obviously, we have a loan from the bank that we can make use of, but the
banks will only loan us 85% of the cost of the vehicle, which translates to about 70% of the price
of the vehicle.
And then, we've got this loan outstanding, which effectively increases the COGS of the car. And it
dilutes the company to the tune of 30% of whatever the inventory – of the finished goods in
transit is. So this is really like tightening that and getting that below 10 days in North America and
then also improving dramatically the transit time to Europe and Asia. This is where having local
factories is actually very important for the capital efficiency of the overall system, because I think
over time we want to get the time from a car going from factory to customer under 7 days
worldwide. And then, the terms that we have from our suppliers are on average just over 60
days.
Now, our parts inventory management also there's a lot of room for improvement there, but I
think we'll probably cut that down to a few hundred million dollars or so, Deepak, something like
that. Maybe $200 million or $300 million of parts at the factory. So effectively, what we're going
to do is reverse the working capital requirement for the company quite dramatically to the point
where the faster we grow, the more capital we have. This is incredibly important for capital
efficiency of the company. It's night and day.
Deepak, is there anything you'd like to...
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
No. I think we are totally – we are reducing our raw material inventory on one hand by keeping the
production stable, finding efficiencies in warehouse management and supply chain, and at the
same time reducing the time to deliver the car and convert that car into cash, and that
significantly improves working capital leads.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's really quite dramatic. So yeah, I think it sort of profoundly changes the financial
effectiveness of Tesla.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
We reduced our inventories in Q3, which helped. And although we had higher receivables
because the quarter ended on a weekend, we won't have that in Q4. So all of this should
continue to help us in Q4 and beyond, the working capital game.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, I mean, it occurs to me that even if the only thing – even if this was the only thing that Tesla
did different was to shorten the time from factory to the end customer, and any given company
that did that would out-compete all other companies over time. It would not be a contest.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Toni Sacconaghi with Bernstein.
Q - `Antonio M. Sacconaghi, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Yes. Thank you. I have one for Deepak and then a follow up, please. Deepak, the OpEx expense
management was very strong in the quarter. I think it was down 13% sequentially and OpEx was
only up 5% year over year, despite revenue growing 71%. So on that front, I mean, in hindsight,
did you get too bloated and needed to get more rightsized? And looking forward, how do we
think about OpEx growth versus revenue growth on kind of a more normalized basis?
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Toni, so excluding onetime items, our OpEx decreased sequentially by 5%, to just clarify
that, first of all. And a lot of that was driven by the actions we took in Q2 to be more efficient with
our employee head count, how we benefited from that in Q3. And we were really careful in terms
of all of our spending.
The other piece that helped us is a lot of our Model 3 spending on expensed sort of R&D is
reducing because Model 3 is going into production, so Q2 to Q3 we saw a reduction there. And it
just gives you the sense of the leverage our operating expenses can have, while our revenue is
growing dramatically. So our OpEx will increase in the future, but at the far slower rate, and we will
continue to be really, really careful about the spending. And I think there're actually more
efficiencies that we can find.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
We already find them. Absolutely.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Right. So we'll continue down that path.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Definitely.
Q - `Antonio M. Sacconaghi, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you for that. And then to follow up, I was just wondering if you could help us a little
bit on the – back to the gross margin on Model 3 and the $35,000 car. So this quarter, I impute
that Model 3 ASPs were maybe $59,000, and that might suggest that gross margins on a
$35,000 Model 3 might be about zero. And Elon, I think you alluded to the fact that the goal is
really to get positive gross margins on a $35,000 car before shipping. Are those all fair
assessments? And I guess the question is where would a $35,000 Model 3 be in terms of grossA - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
The challenge with answering questions of that nature in detail is that it is a rapidly changing
situation. So literally, if you had asked us in a month, it would be different. Another month, it would
be different. There's no question we need to get to a point where we can sell a $35,000 car and
where the full accounted for COGS of the car is, let's say, on the order of $30,000 or slightly less
than $30,000. So I think we'd want to ideally get the COGS of the car, of that configuration of the
car, under $30,000. That's our goal. That's what we're pushing very hard to achieve.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly. And it's a matter of time. It's (56:32-56:43) there's a significant material cost reduction
that comes. You have a smaller battery packs, or a fewer amount of cells. It's not the same cells
that we have in the existing cars.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it's the same cells, but it's not the same.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
The same amount of cells. Cell cost.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
It has fewer cells in it, and then the non-cell portion of the pack is also cost-reduced.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
With the current mid-range pack, it still has basically about the same non-cell portion of the pack
cost.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly. And we are achieving massive reduction in all of our manufacturing cost per car, which will
continue. And as volume grows, that also helps us lift fixed cost absorption. So it's the same
factors that have helped us so far will continue to help us going forward, to get us there. Anything
you want to add, JB? No?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Daniel V. Galves, Director - Automotive Equity Research, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Great. Let's go to the next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from James Albertine with Consumer Edge.Q - `James J. Albertine, Analyst, Consumer Edge Research LLC `
Great. Good afternoon, and thanks for taking the question. Congratulations.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Q - `James J. Albertine, Analyst, Consumer Edge Research LLC `
Wanted just a point of clarification, Elon, you mentioned in August the time to get the car from
the factory to a customer was 30 days down to 20 at the end of the quarter and your goal is
under 10 by the end of 4Q. Where do we see that flow through from a COGS perspective? Is that
in automotive gross margin? Or was that in services and other at this point?
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
It's all in automotive gross margin, our logistics costs are found.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Outbound logistics.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
In COGS are found in automotive.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we'd see a reduction in inbound logistics as well as outbound logistics. Maybe the question
is, for the debt that is carried for that period of time, is that getting into COGS? Or is that not...
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
The interest expense...
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Of the debt that's in the interest expense line. That is not in COGS.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Yeah, that's like, anything like the difference in COGS should probably be important to
include anything that's directly driven by volume essentially. That affects the marginal cost of the
vehicle. So although that is not officially in COGS, in my opinion, it probably should be. It's to take
the ABL interest expense and apply that effectively to the cost of the car.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
And from a broader sense, you're looking at it as the cost of doing business which can be
avoided.A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, essentially cash flow ability increases quite dramatically, dilution or leverage outside of the
ABL line improves dramatically and then the de facto cost, the effective cost of the car also
reduces because you do not have the interest expense. If you have the interest expense over 22
days versus 10 days it's a big difference.
Q - `James J. Albertine, Analyst, Consumer Edge Research LLC `
Understood. And I appreciate that clarification. Sort of what I was trying to get at, you've been
running a negative gross margin in services and other for the past several quarters now, and
wanted to get a sense for when that could maybe drop and start to turn a corner and to
generate some profit for you? I understand there's a lot of building out going on for sales,
service, and charging infrastructure. But if you can give us some kind of clarification there, that
would be I think helpful. And if you're willing maybe to provide an update on where you stand
today in terms of battery costs? I know your goal of parity with ICE vehicles, but maybe an update
if you're willing to provide and where you stand in that trajectory. Thanks.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
I think over time every quarter progressively we will see an improvement in the service and other
business as our revenue continues to grow and as the size of our fleet grows, it's as simple as
that.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, long-term I would expect the service to be a significant revenue item and to be a positive
margin contributor. And it's going to be a function of our fleet size.
(01:00:41)
Exactly. We're under warranty. There's a lot of stuff that's under warranty, but as the warranty
expires so there's non-warranty items then we would expect service to positive gross margin.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and that also includes our used car sales.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, a good point.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
And our used car sales is continuing to grow and they have a healthy margin. And so that overall
business for mature companies is in some cases more profitable than new products. I'm not just
talking about OEMs, car part OEMs. And we are at the early stage of our growth here and as our
fleet size grows, there are just so many opportunities in that business, but it's a matter of time,
simply said.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
And on the battery cost, there was a question?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, that is a key sort of competitive metrics, so I think it's safe to say we are much better than
anyone else by a lot. But we prefer not to give a precise number.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Okay. And now let's go to the last question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our final question comes from `Phil LeBeau, Auto & Airline Industry Reporter, CNBC LLC with CNBC TV.
Q - `Phil LeBeau, Auto & Airline Industry Reporter, CNBC LLC
Thank you, guys. Elon, quick question. In terms of as the federal tax credits starts to be phased
out as your sales crossover the threshold, what kind of an impact have you guys modeled into
how much that might slow down potential sales?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
We don't expect this to result in – I mean, yes, the sales tax or the tax incentive in the U.S. drops
in half at the end of this quarter, but then we also start shipping to Europe, and then start
shipping to Asia and we certainly do not expect anything that would cause our productions to
drop below let's say a minimum of 5,000 cars a week.
Q - `Phil LeBeau, Auto & Airline Industry Reporter, CNBC LLC
But in terms of in the United States, do you expect that it will slow down demand and sales within
the U.S.?
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
I think as we are able to offer lower cost versions of the car, we would expect demand to sustain
in the U.S. But I want to be clear, it's not like we're holding back this lower-cost version of the car
intentionally. Just like with is there anything we can do to provide a lower-cost car now and that's
where we came up with the depopulated long-range pack, it's just like basically taking, having
long-range pack with fewer cells.
We really care about providing the end customer with the most affordable car that we can
possibly produce, the best viability, and if we could do the smaller pack now we absolutely would,
it's just is going to take us, I don't know, at least three months to get the production going and
(01:03:39) our production. And then that production's going to go to – we've got to make packs,
the packs got to go to the vehicle factory, the cars have to get delivered to customers, so that's
why customers probably see the smaller battery pack on the order of March or something or
February maybe, but it's something on that order.
Q - `Phil LeBeau, Auto & Airline Industry Reporter, CNBC LLC
Okay. Thank you.A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
And one thing, these do trigger kind of maybe points that are worth bearing in mind. As our
quarterly letter indicates, the Model 3 is the most efficient energy per mile electric vehicle out
there. It's got the best efficiency, so we've got the best in terms of miles or kilometers per
kilowatt hour and we also have the lowest cost per kilowatt hour. This makes it very difficult for
other companies to compete with Tesla, because we are the most efficient car and the lowest
cost of batteries.
So I do encourage our competitors to really make a huge investment, and we've been saying that
for a long time, and then they're only in this competitive disadvantage because they didn't – we
tried to help them as much as we could and they didn't want to take our help, so they can use all
our patents for free. They can use our supercharger network if they can just have an adapter for
our connector or something.
We want to be as helpful as possible to the rest of the industry, but the fact of the matter is we
made the investment in the Gigafactory and other companies didn't, and we put a lot of effort
into having extremely efficient cars, having the most efficient powertrains and the other
companies didn't, but I'm sure they will over time, but that's what has put us in quite a strong
competitive position right now.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Fantastic. I think that's all we have time for today. Sorry, go ahead.
A - `Deepak Ahuja, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm just going to add a comment in closing, and Elon started with it and I wanted to say that from
myself personally here, I want to personally thank all the Tesla employees that have worked
incredibly hard this quarter and in prior quarters in each and every part of our business. Our
results really are a reflection of the execution done by the company and the passion that our
employees have to deliver such results despite all odds. And I also want to thank all our
customers and all our investors who have believed in us, in our product and our vision of us
leading the world's transition to sustainable energy. So thank you from my side.
A - `Jeffrey B. Straubel, Chief Technical Officer `
No, I'm good.
A - `Elon Reeve Musk, Chairman, Product Architect and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Anybody have any additional comments or anything? All right. Thanks, everyone. And,
yeah, look forward to the next call. Thanks.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you, goodbye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the
program. You may all disconnect, and have a wonderful day.