Q3 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
`Ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, You know that the BMW Group has always been reliable `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to transparent., we will now begin our question-`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to-answer session. The first question is
from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG, Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah. ``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead. `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to good afternoon, everyone. It's Tim from Deutsche Bank. I'd like
to raise two questions please. The first one is that your messaging on volume `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to cash flow for
Q4 sounds quite a bit more cautious than, for example, that one of your Stuttgart-based
competitor. Can you help us underst`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to what you see there in trends? Is `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells. still WLTP
impacted or is the underlying dem`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to pricing also simply weaker? Is `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled weaker or what
exactly do you see there?
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW secondly, Nicolas, I would like to pick on your personal remark. Even including the additional
provisions, you would have ended the `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the below your 8% to 10% margin corridor, around
7.6% or so. We get the more cautious measures on Q4. Next year, you have a very strong product
lineup, but variable costs will probably go up for everyone considering what's going on in the
regulatory side. Does that mean we should say goodbye to the 8% to 10% margin corridor for
some time now or do you still plan to return to that with the countermeasures you spoke about.
`Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Tim. We start with Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Tim, thanks for your question `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to remarks. As you know, we remain an ambitious company `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to
we set ourselves a very ambitious target. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW we are still committed to an EBIT margin of 8% to
10%. On the other h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, if we reflect `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to it's a little bit too early to give a very precise
indication regarding `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW on the more challenging side, we have to assume that some trade
conflicts will continue `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be between U.S. `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. There is uncertainty about the Brexit
outcome. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW then we have some regulatory requirements which force us to further invest in
technology. On the currency `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to commodities side, we forecast to see some headwind in themid-three-digit area. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW of course, we will continue to invest in our future `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be in e-
mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to autonomous driving.
On the other h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, we have, as you rightly said, a really very, very strong product portfolio
with the X5 definitely a profit champion in our product portfolio. The X7 will contribute in a
significant way. The X3 now being available in produced in three plants. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW not to forget on the
one h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, the 3 Series still one of our most important volume models `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the 8 Series in the
top `segment, we should see a slight increase in deliveries, with an EBIT margin in the range of 8% to. So, we will balance those positive `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to more challenging `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., in the weeks to
come `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we'll come up with a clear `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group for the year `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series in the first `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the.
Second topic, free cash flow. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW on one h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, I definitely believe we have taken the right
approach in Q3 to reduce our production `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to our inventories by approximately 20,000 units in
this very, very volatile environment. Very difficult to forecast exactly how `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be the `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells.an
market will develop. In `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled, we have seen a strong month on our side in October despite an
overall market in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled being relatively weak.
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., we still feel the impact of the WLTP changeover with some of our competitors
being at more than minus 50%, minus 60% in major markets `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to others plus 20%, which is
indicating that the market is not in balance. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW on top, we have – of course, due to the fact that
in Q4 we are planning the ramp-up of the 3 Series in our plants, the X5. We have higher
investment scheduled `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to planned in the fourth `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the 2018. Having said this, still we aim for the
€3 billion, but this is not a walk in the park.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead..
A - Unverified Participant
Good. ``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Tim. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG, UBS. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Yeah. `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions.. `Good afternoon, ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen. The BMW Group has two firm principles: we take a long-, gentlemen. Two questions. First one, I know this is not the
`2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group day today, but just to get a bit more granular underst`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able toing about the things that
you have under control, can you just help us with your updated thoughts on R&D? I think you said
a year ago that the 7% level is sort of the peak, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to then from here, we should see a
normalization meaning a negative trend in the R&D ratio. Is that still what you see today? `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW can
you elaborate a little bit more on the additional cost efforts you're going to take `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to which area
those will be?
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW my second question, you had a couple of things in the `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the in BBA, but were impacting
profitability negatively, some dealer measures, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the ramp of the X3. I was just interested can
you share what the actual underlying profitability in the joint venture would have been without
those two sort of non-recurring items? `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Patrick. Nicolas?A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Patrick, first of all, R&D, R&D ratio, as `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs,, we will be around 7% in 2018, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group
is still valid that in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series, we will see a decrease in this ratio. Too early what exactly will be the ratio
for `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series, but there will be a decrease with this regard. Other cost areas, as you can imagine, we
have, on an ongoing basis, efforts in all areas to increase our efficiency `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to reduce our spending
levels. This in 2018 amounted to between lower `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to mid three-digit positive impact on the cost
side, so a significant effort which was already delivered in 2018 `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we have short-term
measures, which I would say, more of the `class, deliveries remained at the same high level as the previous year. Operating earnings wereic style you can imagine, but also very important
some more medium `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to long-term oriented actions we are taking `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be in order to reduce
the complexity in our product offering.
Here we definitely believe we can, in a certain way, learn also of some of the new entrants in our
business, so this is definitely something we are working extremely hard on it `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we have I would
call it a 360-degree program running since a couple of months.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
BBA?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
So, the next topic, Patrick, BBA. You're absolutely right. The profitability at BBA was impacted by
exactly the two elements you've `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs,. We believe `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be due to this trade issues, May
`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to June, the profitability of our network was impacted in a negative way. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW to be honest, I
don't think it's not only our profitability, all other networks were impacted as well. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW for us, it's
extremely important to keep a dealer network, which is running full steam, highly motivated, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to
we've decided therefore to make some extraordinary payment to our dealers, which we believe
looking at our `result, the figure for the year to the end of September was also lower, at €4.73 billion. As Is in August, September, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to October, October is significantly up, also thanks
to the X3. It has proven to be absolutely right.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
So, `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, thely run rate, just to follow-up, of €200 million plus is still a realistic assumption going
forward?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yes.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Thanks.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. ``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead.. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities at Evercore. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities ``Good afternoon, ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen. The BMW Group has two firm principles: we take a long-, everyone. Two questions please, one for `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to one for Nicolas
Peter please. The first one `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management, would you be open to a significant increase in
collaboration with Mercedes given the change of leadership at Mercedes `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to Daimler more
broadly `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the huge pressures for the industry overall. Wouldn't it be time to really step up the
collaboration between Mercedes `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to BMW? `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW here, I'm specifically asking about areas such as
EV platforms `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to combustion engine.
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW secondly for `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance please, in the past, you've been talking a lot about the
opportunities to restore pricing. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW I think we all appreciate that you've been taking out
production to protect `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to hopefully improve your pricing in the markets. Now you have a new
head of sales, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to all of that, but it's become a bit quiet regarding the opportunity to improve
both component mix `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to also pricing in the market.
Could you be a bit more granular what the opportunity is `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to if we finally get into a positive
pricing environment after years of negative pricing? `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
So, thank you very much, Arndt. We'll start with Harald `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to then Nicolas.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Arndt, concerning the question on the cooperation with Mercedes. Possible, I mean, we are in
very serious talks about finalizing our cooperation on the mobility services side, not knowing if we
can conclude it this year or if it maybe next year. But this is also one area where we cooperate
definitely strategically, because we believe we can create a win-win partnership on both sides for
bringing a strong player into the mobility services where we add strengths from both companies,
for example, we are quite strong in the charging area, Mercedes is with MYTEK (36:56), is quite
strong in that area. so that's why we are working together `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the idea of this one creating a
strong mobility services provider `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to for sure, making it more profitable `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to sharing costs on
these sides. Yeah, so creating this – so that's a strategic opportunity. We follow-up very seriously.
On the question of, is there potential other areas for strategic cooperations? In principle, you can
say this is to be discussed. On platforms, it's definitely very difficult because mainly timing-wise
normally it doesn't fit because sometimes the one company needs the cars in 2021, the other
company is in 2024, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to then you have so many delays that you can't bridge it. So, in principle,
that is difficult. But if there's a win-win opportunity, we definitely will take a look at it. But in
principle, Arndt, it's always quite difficult to find a win-win cooperation. But we focus clearly first on
what we do with kit, with our mobility services. That's the first thing we would like to close.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities `
`Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions., `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Arndt, definitely pricing power profitability per unit is still one of the top priorities we have in our
organization. Maybe to reflect on what we've discussed earlier this year `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to maybe starting with
the volume development. If you remember, we've said we will grow slightly – from a global
perspective we will grow slightly in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., in the U.S., `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we will grow a little bit higher between
5% `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 10% in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. If you look 10 months later, this is exactly where we st`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to. So, we've seen a
slight growth from an global perspective. We have seen growth in all regions around the globe,
`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to more significant growth in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled.`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW if you look month-by-month, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to this is part of this effort, probably our volatility in the sales
number has been amongst the lowest in the industry, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to this is definitely supporting pricing. Why
have we've been one of the lowest in terms of volatility? Because we've already with WLTP in
time `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we had by the way, since early July most of our cars have compliant with Euro 6d as well.
Having said this, I see further opportunities. Why? Because we are in the process of launching
very important from an profit perspective, extremely important models. `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series will be the first year
where we have full X3 availability around the globe including `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. First year with full X5
availability `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we are launching the X7. Of course, what impacted in a negative way
development in 2018 was `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be the trade tension between U.S. `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. Why? Because
`in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be, cars with high profit margins were impacted, X models shipped from U.S. to `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled.
So, despite the fact that we had increased prices in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled between 7% `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8%, there was overall
still a negative impact on profitability.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities `
Nicolas, if I just may – before you move to the next question. I think what I'm trying to find out is,
you're referring to external factors left, right `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to center `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we all underst`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to those because we
discussed them with all the companies. I think we're trying to find out what has gone wrong, if
anything, in your own assessment of your business. So what has gone wrong at BMW in addition
to the more sector-related headwind? Or are you just a victim of the market?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Arndt, if you look region-by-region-by-region, in the U.S. we are on course as planned. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW as I
said in my speech, we've seen even `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to this is thanks to – also thanks to our, I think, efforts in the
sales `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to financial services area. We have seen used car prices, we've seen the value going
slightly in the positive direction.
Have we been able to forecast the WLTP issue in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells. `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the fact that our competitors were
not ready `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to by September 1, I don't think so. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW of course, this trade issue which popped up
in end of May `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to was implemented July 6 is an additional factor. Having said this, we have to
deal with those challenges `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to with those factors. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW this is exactly what we are going to do.
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW therefore, I think we have `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be, based on the strong product momentum, also there
are reasons to be optimistic. That in term, with regard to pricing power, we will see further
positive development.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities `
Okay, thanks.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW Arndt, one extension to the question on the cooperation because you asked on Mercedes
only. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW from the BMW perspective, we are definitely following strategic cooperation. Think
about three items we're currently focusing on. The one is, the MINI cooperation with Great Wall
where we set up the new joint venture. Then the second one was Toyota on fuel-cell strategy, or,
for example, the third one on autonomous driving with other partners first `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to second tier
suppliers. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW this is one of the approach because I believe in strategic cooperations that you can
be faster, that you can share costs, that you can maybe deliver the better st`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able toard together. So,
as a BMW company, we have follow-up strategic cooperations even outside the Daimler
cooperation, which we do on the mobility services.Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities `
`Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
Good. Okay. ``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Arndt. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Daniel Schwarz, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (`Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells.) Ltd., Credit Suisse. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Daniel Schwarz, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (`Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells.) Ltd. `
Yeah. ``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead.. I have one question regarding the warranty costs, the €679 million. Is
that more than you expected to receive profit warning earlier in September, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to are you going to
book more extra warranty cost in the fourth `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to on back of that, do you believe that
going forward that the regular provision per car will structurally be higher in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to beyond?
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW the second question, just regarding the dividend or the dividend policy. Would you be
comfortable with increasing the payout ratio if reported earnings are depressed due to mostly
one-off `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., in 2018, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to is main driver for the dividend decision, the reported earnings or the
free cash flow?
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Daniel. This question will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW Daniel, maybe let's start with the dividend payout. We will stick to our dividend payout ratio
of 30% to 40%, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we will take as always the final decision once we have our final `result, the figure for the year to the end of September was also lower, at €4.73 billion. As Is for
2018. Provisions of €679 million were not higher than expected with a profit warning end of
September. Of course, there are always several reasons in this area – warranty provisions,
however, there is one major topic which is the EGR module in certain of our diesel cars.
Those single cases didn't post a significant risk to our customers. Nevertheless, we decided in
end of October to increase our recall which is based on what I would call precautionary `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to
voluntary basis. So, we are recalling from a global perspective 1.6 million cars mainly in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells. `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to
in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. No, sorry, not `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled in Asia. `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled is not – because `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled is not a diesel market in Asia.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. ``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Daniel. Next question, please?
Operator
The next question is from `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd., Barclays. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi there. It's `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. for taking my question. The first is
around the R&D capitalization. How are we meant to interpret the increase in the capitalization
rate, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to could it be that you're working on more R&D projects that qualify for that accounting
treatment because they're more likely to come to fruition?`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW then my second question is around `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. You've obviously committed to I think €3 billion
CapEx increase at BBA. I was just wondering how quickly that will allow you to reduce the earnings
impact from the hiked U.S. import tariff – sorry, the hiked tariffs on U.S. imports? `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead.. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Dorothee, if we look year-on-year after nine months we are with our capitalization ratio slightly
below 2017. Our forecast for the full year is that we will be approximately plus/minus on the same
level as the previous year meaning around 40%.
The higher ratio in Q3 was planned `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to is `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be due to the fact that we are ramping up
now of course with projects qualifying like the X5 `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the 3 Series as well the 8 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the X7
which all of them are very profitable cars.
`China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. So `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled, first of all, those €3 million of cost will be spent over a couple of years. The
outlook for BBA in 2018 is definitely positive also based on our strong sales `result, the figure for the year to the end of September was also lower, at €4.73 billion. As Is in the previous
months. So, we stay optimistic. The 5 Series continue to sell very well with low discounts. The start
of the X3 was very positive `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we will take a final decision in the coming weeks together with
our joint venture partner, which model to localize NEXT in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW Dorothee, one extension to that one. For example, some of the investment will be – we are
localizing the X2 in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled next year, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to that will be another product which is localized `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to where
we spent some CapEx.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
`Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Dorothee. The next question please?
Operator
The next question is from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG of HSBC. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yeah. Thanks for taking also my questions. Horst from HSBC here. First of all, this morning in the
press call, you `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, already that the FX burden will be next year in the magnitude of €500
million. So you said mid-three digit million euro amount.
I wonder if you can be a little bit more specific on other cost changes. I mean, that is an item you
should have already now good visibility on. Should we also plan here, this roughly €500 million
burden next year? Then you also `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, regarding `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series, the importance of the 3 Series, but
it reminds me a little bit to the 5 Series, there we saw not that much volume pick up just because
the design has not really changed.So how important is the 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to you're planning then for rising profits in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series? `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW the last
but not least, my question on pricing. You always say the pricing in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells. was slightly negative.
Could you be a little bit more specific how negative was it? `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW is it now improving in the fourth
`quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the? `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Horst. So we start with the importance of the 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the 5 Series with
the Chairman, with Mr. Krüger.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Horst, I'll start with the 5 Series. Very clearly, three messages. The 5 Series is the `segment, we should see a slight increase in deliveries, with an EBIT margin in the range of 8% to leader.
Is ahead of everyone in the world. The 5 Series extended wheelbase in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled is clearly leading its
`segment, we should see a slight increase in deliveries, with an EBIT margin in the range of 8% to. When you look into the past, there was sometimes Audi `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to others. So, the 5 Series
long wheelbase `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled is clearly `segment, we should see a slight increase in deliveries, with an EBIT margin in the range of 8% to leader.
The 3 Series was always a `segment, we should see a slight increase in deliveries, with an EBIT margin in the range of 8% to leader `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we sold 50 million 3 Series in the past. The
reception we had at the Paris Motor Show was very positive. The dealers are looking forward to it.
There's a huge step in the ones on the design side. But also as I `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, in my speech on
digital services side, on the connectivity, it would even drive better than the 3 Series before which
is always a challenge for us.
So I'm clearly optimistic `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we will launch 3 Series in plant Munich now. We will come to the
market in March next year, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to then we will launch in Mexico `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW then in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled, you
should be aware that we always have a long-wheelbase 3 Series again, so specific for the
Chinese market `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to there is a huge customer potential there as well. So overall, I'm on the 3
Series optimistic with the three locations we have `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to especially – `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 5 Series is definitely the
market `segment, we should see a slight increase in deliveries, with an EBIT margin in the range of 8% to leader since one-`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to-a-half years.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Horst, maybe starting with FX burden `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to not only talking about FX but also about commodities.
This is what I've said this morning. It both together will be in the mid three-digit area negative. I've
`mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, already in the last couple of weeks one other item. If you look at the trade tension
between the U.S. `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled, this had an impact close to €300 million or will have an impact of
close to €300 million in 2018.
If you assume that this was a six months impact because it kicked off 6th of July, you can easily,
let's say calculate in which magnitude we might see an impact in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series under the condition that
there is no positive development between U.S. administration `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the Chinese government.
If we look to pricing `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to I think we have to look at volume mix market, the development we've
seen in `the third `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the, free cash flow amounted to about €100 million. Despite the difficult conditions,, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the low three-digit impact coming from this area, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to this was
mainly due to, on one-h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, the WLTP issue in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells. `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled to the change in pricing
related to the change in tariffs early July.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
So, you have not answered two of my questions. What is now the outlook for pricing in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells.
Q4, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to I asked about other cost changes in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series not about the foreign exchange impact.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `Horst, other cost – `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. `Group is, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to will remain, a high-performance company. Even in turbulent times, we never lose as always in concrete numbers is due in the first `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series.
As I've `already `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs,, the EBIT margin of 7.6% for the year to the end of September is in line with, we have on one-h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, the ongoing trade topics. We have some
requirements to invest in technology in order to reduce further CO2 emissions, as `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs,,
the currency `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to commodity headwinds. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW I've already answered the question regarding
research `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to development ratio will go slightly down. Nevertheless, of course, we will continue to
invest `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be in e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to autonomous driving.
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW how will Q4 develop? Well, if you look at the October numbers `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be in some of the
major `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells.an markets, you'll definitely see that the market still is not stable. We've seen in
major markets some of our competitors with minus 50% minus 60% in October, others with plus
20% more than 20% in the same period. This is an indicator that the market is still not in a
balanced position. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW, Horst, we assume that this can continue or can have an impact into the
first half of `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series as well.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay. `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Maybe to add, there are also opportunities because you need to have in mind that we are having
especially on the high end of our portfolio more products in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series like the new X7, like the new 8
Series. The new X5. So, there's also cars coming with higher contribution margins into the
markets where we can balance some `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells.,.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay.
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead., Horst. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd. of Exane. Your line is now open, please go ahead.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just two questions for me. The first one on product cycle
`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to you've obviously got quite a busy launch schedule coming up. So, can you just give us an idea
of the impact that the product cycle will have on working capital, on free cash flow `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to earnings
over the next six months or so? `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW by that – I mean will there be any notable working capital
drag or higher CapEx spend, or launch costs that we need to be aware of in any particular
`quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the?
My second question is just on investment spending. You said the R&D spend should sequentially
decrease in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series as a percentage of sales. How should we think of that for CapEx as well? Thank
you.
A - Unverified Participant
`Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions., Dominic. Nicolas, please.A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Dominic, as I've said, it's definitely too early to comment in detail `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series regarding free cash flow
for the next three months. Our ambition is clearly to achieve the €3 billion for the full-year. Having
said this is what I've `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, in my speech. This is definitely not a walk in the park. On the
other h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, we have delivered positive free cash flow in Q3 as well `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to we have a good
momentum from our various most important markets.
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW as I've said, R&D will decrease in terms of ratio next year. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW CapEx, it's, I think, definitely
too early, but you've seen our CapEx ratio very, very stable over the last couple of years. So, from
today's perspective, there's no reason to assume that this will be very different in `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Okay. So, quickly just to follow up. Sorry. So, there isn't a one particular `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the where the sort of
the product cycle changeover will have, I guess, one big notable impact?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
No. Definitely not anything we can – if you look our launch calendar, it's very balanced across the
different `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, thes. So, nothing to be `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, at this point in time.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd.
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions. very much, Harald. Nicolas, please go ahead.. So ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, we have time for one more question. The last
question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) of Société Générale. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Yes. `Good afternoon, ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen. The BMW Group has two firm principles: we take a long-. I have two questions please. First of all, on production, you `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, that
obviously you've been adjusting production to keep inventories under control. In `the third `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the, free cash flow amounted to about €100 million. Despite the difficult conditions,,
you `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, a figure of 20,000 units. Looking at your production in `the third `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the, free cash flow amounted to about €100 million. Despite the difficult conditions,, I figure
that your production in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled was up about 28,000 units. I think you are up 25% in actual terms
`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to you are also, I guess, gearing up in the U.S. for X5 `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the like. So, clearly the big production
cut was in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells. with WLTP as you `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs,. What are you expecting for the fourth `quarter, with the start of production of our new 3 Series `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to 8 Series models. At Group level, the?
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW the second question is on the 3 Series. You `mentioned, R&D costs will also be significantly higher than the previous year. Higher tariffs, obviously the importance of this
model. You're bringing this onto your CLAR platform now. So, what does that mean in terms of
reducing complexity, reducing diversity costs, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to so as an improving impacts on margin on that
as well, please. `Thank you, Nicolas, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to now ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, the line will shortly be opened for questions..
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
So, Stephen, first starting with production. Adjusted production in Q3 20,000. We have already
taken measures to adjust in Q4 slightly as well. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW you are absolutely right, that this is mainlyrelated to the situation in `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells. as the overall trend in `China, which increased by 11.7% year-on-year. Pre-tax earnings in the Automotive segment totaled is very, very positive `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to with the
momentum of the X model, we are positive for the U.S. market as well.
`And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW if we talk about, let's say, production adjustment days, maybe one other market we should
mention, which is Turkey, a very complicated market environment. So this is one outside `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells.,
one other market where we had to adjust production not only in Q3 but in Q4 as well.
Nevertheless, we will see growth in terms of sales from a global perspective as planned in Q4 as
well. `And, finally, the third region, the Americas. The United States is our second home. The BMW your second question was about cost improvement. It's always a balance, while on the
one h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side definitely we see cost improvements, on the other h`and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to side, `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to Stephen, I think
you know it very well. We have to add costs `in particular, very closely. If conditions deteriorate significantly, `effects, among other factors. As expected, the risk situation remained stable overall. In `Europe, we are forging ahead with e-mobility `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to production of battery cells., on our `guidance, earnings for the first nine months are on track to reach our goals for the year. Group cannot be to fulfill the regulatory requirements
around the world which are becoming more challenging. Having said this, we believe that the 3
Series will definitely be a car which will add not only in terms of positive `segment, we should see a slight increase in deliveries, with an EBIT margin in the range of 8% to development,
but also in terms of profitability from `2019, the 8 Series Gran Coupé `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to the corresponding M models will complete the new 8 Series onwards.
A - Unverified Participant
So ladies `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us today. I wish you a pleasant day. Bye,
bye `and, later also in Hungary. Thanks to our highly flexible production network, we are able to thank you very much.