Q2 2019 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Oba (00:38) from Toyota who will moderate today's
conference.
Unverified Participant
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the fiscal year 2019 second
quarter. I am Yesugay Oba (00:00:52) from the accounting division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of Toyota
Motor Corporation; and Ms. Ota (00:01:05), an interpreter as well.
The agenda of today's conference call is the following. First, Mr. Kon will briefly discuss Toyota's
earnings results. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions. Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that will affect
our plans and expectations and our actual results may be materially different from these
statements.
A complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page 2
of today's presentation material, and the complete cautionary statement concerning insider
trading is included on page 3. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet
homepage.
Now, I'd like to the turn to call over to Mr. Kon.
`Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division. It is my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the first half of the financial year ending March 2019.
Let me start with slide 5. Compared with the first half of the previous fiscal year, consolidated
vehicle sales increased by 30,000 units to 4,419,000 units. This was a result of solid sales in
North America, Europe and Asia.
Please see slide 6. Consolidated financial results for the first half of this fiscal year were net
revenue of ¥14.674 trillion, operating income of ¥1.2618 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥1.5488 trillion,
and net income of ¥1.2423 trillion.
Now, I would like to hand the rest of this presentation to Ms. Midori Ota (00:03:20), our
interpreter.Unverified Participant
I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. Firstly, the
effect of foreign exchange rates decreased operating income by ¥20 billion due to the negative
translation impact of foreign exchange rates resulting from a ¥1 appreciation against the dollar as
well as depreciation of local currencies in emerging countries.
Secondly, cost reduction efforts increased operating income by ¥30 billion as the impact of cost
reduction efforts exceeded the increase in raw material costs. Thirdly, marketing efforts increased
operating income by ¥150 billion due to improved vehicle sales and product mix in North America,
Europe and Asia, as well as improved profitability in financial services and so on.
Finally, expenses including the impact of reduction efforts decreased by ¥40 billion due to a
decrease in quality assurance costs and so on. As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign
exchange rates, swap valuation gains and losses and other factors, operating income improved
by ¥220 billion year-on-year.
Next, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region, going from the left hand side
to the right side of this slide. In Japan, vehicle sales decreased by 56,000 units to 1.031 million
units due to the diminished effects of new models. Operating income was up ¥109.9 billion year-
on-year to ¥751.6 billion due to cost reduction efforts, marketing efforts and the reduction in
expenses.
In North America, vehicle sales were up 15,000 units year-on-year to 1,411,000 units driven by
trucks and SUV models such as the Tacoma and Highlander. Despite the progress on cost
reduction efforts, operating income was ¥137.2 billion, down ¥3.9 billion compared with the first
half of the previous fiscal year. This largely results from the negative impact of foreign exchange
rate, the rising raw material costs and increased sales incentives. As for sales incentives, we are
now controlling them more adequately by efficiently allocating them to key models.
In Europe, vehicle sales grew by 24,000 units year-on-year to 493,000 units, driven by hybrid
vehicles such as C-HR HV. Operating income was up ¥22.8 billion year-on-year to ¥61.8 billion. This
mainly results from marketing efforts, including increased vehicle sales and the reduction in
expenses.
In Asia, vehicle sales were up 67,000 units year-on-year to 811,000 units on the back of solid
sales in Thailand, India and China. Operating income was up ¥63.2 billion year-on-year to ¥276.2
billion, mainly as a result of marketing efforts, including an increase in vehicle sales.
In other regions, overall vehicle sales were down 20,000 units year-on-year to 673,000 units,
mainly due to the decreased vehicle sales in the EMEA (00:07:10) and Middle East. Operating
income decreased by ¥7.9 billion year-on-year to ¥63.8 billion. This was due to depreciation of
local currencies and an increase in raw material costs.
Next, please see slide 9 for the operating income of financial services. Operating income
excluding swap valuation gains and losses for the first half of this fiscal year was up ¥30 billion
year-on-year to ¥174.1 billion. This was mainly due to an increase in the lending balance and the
decrease in costs related to loan losses and residual value losses.
Next, please look at slide 10 on shareholder return. With regard to the interim dividend on shares
of common stock, we plan to make it to ¥100 per share, the same amount as the last fiscal year.
Regarding full year dividend, we will continue to pay it stably and sustainably using the
consolidated payout ratio of 30% as a benchmark.Slide 11 summarizes our interim dividends and share buyback. The total amount of dividends on
both shares of common stock and Model AA class shares for the first half of this fiscal year will be
¥291.8 billion. We also plan to buy back up to ¥250 billion or 42 million shares of common stock as
the interim shareholder returns. As a result, together with the interim dividend, the total
shareholder return for the first half of this fiscal year will be up to ¥541.8 billion and the total
payout ratio will be a maximum of 43.6%.
Now, I would like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year ending March 2019.
Please look at slide 13. First, with regards to our consolidated vehicle sales, we have maintained
our forecast at 8.9 million units as we announced at the time of Q1 results. As described at the
bottom of the slide, we have also maintained our forecast of retail vehicle sales at 10.5 million
units.
Now, please see slide 14. We have adopted FOREX rate assumptions for October onwards of
¥110 per dollar and ¥130 per euro, as well as full year assumptions of ¥110 per dollar and ¥130 per
euro. Assumptions for unrealized gains or losses on equity securities is based on the amount of
end of September. Based on this, our forecast for full year consolidated financial performance
are net revenue of ¥29.5 trillion, operating income of ¥2.40 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥2.72 trillion,
and net income of ¥2.30 trillion.
Please see slide 15 for an analysis of our latest operating income forecast in comparison to our
previous forecast of Q1 results. Firstly, the positive effect of FOREX rates will be ¥125 billion. This
is mainly due to the adjustment of FOREX rate assumptions to the weaker yen against the dollar
and euro.
Secondly, we anticipate there will be a ¥30 billion negative impact related to cost reduction
efforts. This is mainly due to a higher increase in raw material costs than initially expected despite
the steady progress of ongoing cost reduction activities.
Thirdly, we estimate that the effects of marketing efforts have a positive impact on operating
income of ¥75 billion due to price improvement efforts as the response to market fluctuations
and ongoing inflation, as well as the disciplined use of sales incentives in North America.
Finally, expenses including the impact of reduction efforts are expected to have increased by ¥40
billion, largely as a result of an increase in expenses in response to ongoing inflation in South
America. As for the cost reduction and fixed cost reduction activities, we are steadily making
progress towards achieving our challenge level target.
In order to achieve this at the end of this financial year and to continue strengthening our earning
power, we will accelerate our activities throughout the second half of this financial year across the
group, companies and regions. As the consequences, operating income is expected to be up
¥100 billion year-on-year to ¥2.4 trillion.
Next, please see slide 16, which compares the latest operating income forecast for this fiscal year
with the result of the previous fiscal year. Compared year-on-year year, operating income is
expected to increase by ¥200 million due to the upward revision of ¥100 billion from the forecast
at the time of Q1 results, as mentioned earlier. Excluding the overall impact of FOREX rate and
swap valuation gains and losses, operating income is expected to be up ¥135 billion year-on-year.
So in the press conference today, Executive Vice President, Didier Leroy, and Senior Managing
Officer, James Lentz, explained our sales activities for enhancement of our competitiveness and
sustainable growth as well as profit improvement activities in North America. So please see the
presentation replay, which has been posted on our website. Thank you.Thank you. Now, we will gladly take your questions, but only up to two questions per person
please. Further questions may be possible later if time allows. You do not have to name yourself.
Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Oba. (00:13:41) Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted
electronically.
Yes. Hello. My first question is on North American operating profit. In the second quarter, you
managed to turn around operations. You finally recorded an increase in profits in North America. I
assume that most of the increase comes from financial services, which were quite strong in the
second quarter. Could you elaborate on other details such as volume, mix and incentives in the
U.S. specifically in the second quarter? That's my first question.
The second is then on financial services. As I said, that was quite strong in Q2. Can you also give
more details on – the details on lending balances, loan losses and residual values? And also, what
your outlook is for the remainder of the year for financial services? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (00:15:23-00:16:21)
A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
Thank you for your question. I do not have at hand the numbers, figures, just limited to the Q2,
for three months. So instead I will give you the first half, the cumulative number.
First of all, the entire North America compared to the previous period, ¥3.9 billion reduction of
operating income was observed.
Even though the sales unit volume increased due to the increased raw material and other costs,
that was a ¥30 billion reduction and then also the ¥40 billion was increase of the incentive, which
brought (00:17:47) the adverse impact as well.
On the other hand, the sales and marketing efforts brought some fruits, for example, which
increased the sales volume as well as improved the model mix, and then which contributed to
¥27 billion of increase. In terms of financial services contribution, ¥25 billion of increase was
achieved.
In terms of the financial services, I would like to give you the answer as a cumulative number for
the Q2. As to the lending share, the last period, it was 58.1%, but it has increased to the 60.4%
for this term.
The bad debt ratio is very minimal. It was 0.37% in the previous term, but now it has improved
further to 0.36%.
Well, as to the residual value across the some of the lease, they will peak out and the lease term
will expire, so that peak out will occur. And because of that, we have actually returned some of
the – or filled the reserve partially. Therefore, that contributed to ¥20 billion of increase in this
profit.
During the latter half of the second half, I think this financial services and its performance is not
likely to improve markedly nor deteriorate markedly at all. Therefore, our outlook is that thiscurrent situation or current level is likely to continue.
Q - Operator
Okay. Just to follow-up on the first question. In regard to incentives, Toyota has started with a
new policy on how to distribute incentives. Were you able to see over the year kind of an
improvement in Q2 compared to Q1 on the situation for incentives in the U.S.?
[Foreign Language] (00:21:50-00:22:03)
A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
Well, now, thanks to this new incentive policy that we have improved this incentive total amount
from – between Q1 and Q2 by $2 million. $2 million? $200 million. Okay, your turn.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (00:23:23).
Thank you. Next, please.
Hi. Can I follow up on the incentives side? And just longer term, actually, if you look at the
competitiveness presentation on slide 7, you talk about the desire to lower incentives to improve
the resale value and lower the lifetime cost for customers. I just want to know how is that
different to the Toyota (00:23:56) in recent years? My guess is you've always tried to lower
incentives. So I guess I'm interested in what you're actually trying to tell us here and do you
actually believe that you can drive incentives significantly lower or is this sort of just a purely
theoretical chart?
[Foreign Language] (00:24:15-00:24:54)
A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
First, I'd like to respond to your question on incentive. The gist of your question is that whether
we intend to in the mid to long-term continue to try to reduce the incentive level. And the answer
is yes, we will.
However, we are not just trying to slightly reduce the incentive on every model and every region.
That's not the case. We like to actually allocate the incentive more efficiently and effectively in
order to boost our competitive edge, so that when the certain area or the region, the
competition is so severe for the certain model and the type of vehicles, then the incentive is
given to that region or model with priority.
On the other hand, in the region where the competition is rather relatively weak or mild, then the
incentive level could be lowered. And then, where that we have a very much the advantageous
position in terms of attractiveness of a vehicle, then the incentive does not really have to be
given in big amount at all, so we can lower the incentive in that particular situation.
And then, so we will maintain our policy of trying to suppress the level of incentive give out. Even
though we pay incentive to a certain area with a certain – for the certain model, if it does not
directly lead to the increase of sale, then we will continue to curtail the incentive payout. So the
gist of it is that we like to use incentive in a more effective way.So the mean level of the incentive currently per unit of vehicle is about $2,000, but we do not
have just this fixed number of the target level of incentive. However, we would like to make a
steady effort to try to continue to lower the level of incentive.
Q - Operator
Thank you. And just my second question is a shorter term one. Just in the change to the full year
forecast, you've improved the marketing efforts by ¥75 billion. ¥70 billion of that comes from the
other category. Could you perhaps just give us a bit more flavor on why that – all that changes?
[Foreign Language] (00:28:53-00:29:13)
A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
Let me give you more details about the composition of the marketing efforts of ¥75 billion, and
then ¥70 billion in particular. Because of the price revision, the ¥60 billion of the impact was
achieved.
So, for example, this – the total number of ¥60 billion, the Argentina suffered from the rapid
escalation of inflation. That's why that the – we took the measure which is equivalent to ¥75
billion, and also in South America and Brazil, ¥5 billion, and in Europe, it's ¥5 billion and the rest.
And the remaining ¥10 billion was due to the more efficient use of this sales expense.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you very much.
Yes. Hello. I see in the first half, you saw a nice increase in volumes in Asia and an improvement in
profitability. But for the full year, you're looking for Asian sales to just be flat over the last year. So
why are you seeing or expecting a slowdown in the second half? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (00:32:16-00:32:38)
A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
In terms of the Asia, during the first half, that 67,000 units increase observed year-on-year. On
the other hand, during the latter half, the second half, 68,000 units increase is again expected.
So that is our forecast.
And both for the first half and the second half, there was common factor for this good
performance. In Thailand, IMV pickup truck sale increased solidly. And in China, Lexus has
achieved the good performance of increased sale.
And the reason that the – throughout the full year that we are expecting the 10,000 units of the
decline or reduction in Asia outlook that is because of that weak currency situation, which have
pushed down and which has caused a slowdown in the market in some Asian countries, namely
the Philippines, India and Taiwan.
Q - Operator
Okay, great. Thank you. Can I ask, so your margin was 10.5% in the first half, do you expect to be
able to maintain that double digit margin through the rest of the year?
[Foreign Language] (00:35:33-00:35:49)A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
Yes. Thank you for the question. During the first half in Asia, we enjoyed big margin and which is
due to the good sales performance in Thailand; as well as in China, through the consolidated
subsidiary, the Lexus sales did quite well.
However, with regard to the latest – the recent situation surrounding the consolidated subsidiary
handling Lexus in China, due to the slightly weakening renminbi, the currency in China, we expect
a certain level of slowdown might occur. So maintaining the margin level of 10.5% might be a bit
difficult.
Q - Operator
Okay, very good. Thank you.
(00:38:00-00:39:03)
...some numbers to the Q2 cost reduction between the lower costs that you've managed to
achieve and how much of that was offset by raw material prices? Could you do the same for the
new fiscal year forecast as well, please?
[Foreign Language] (00:39:20-00:39:35)
A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
Thank you for your question. That in the second quarter, the cost reduction effort actually
contributed to net reduction of ¥15 billion. But this net saving actually has to take into account this
¥65 billion of the negative impact due to the market condition. So the growth – the reduction was
actually ¥80 billion.
So that was the figure for the three months. However, throughout the full year, the net reduction
was ¥30 billion, but it was after subtracting the adverse impact brought about by the market
condition of ¥280 billion. And so the gross – the cost reduction was ¥310 billion.
Q - Operator
Thank you. And just my second one on slide 16, when we look at the expenses line, I think I
understand all the labor costs, et cetera, but the expenses, et cetera, you've improved by ¥75
billion. I wonder if you could explain that and say how much of that is to do with changes in sort of
recourse or product quality related costs, please.
[Foreign Language] (00:41:58-00:42:19)
A - `Kenta Kon, General Manager, Accounting Division `
Thanks for the question. Of that ¥750 billion, the other expense reduction, the most contributor
to the reduction is the quality related expenses amounting to ¥160 billion. So, on the other hand,
that is to say that the ¥85 billion, the other expenses increased, but that increase actually include,
for example, the investment in IT-related activities as well as countermeasures to deal with the
inflation in Argentina and Brazil.
Thank you.
Q - OperatorThank you very much.
A - Unverified Participant
It seems there are no more questions. So this concludes today's conference call now. If you
require further information, please contact our IR representative in Texas or London. Thank you
very much for joining us today. Good-bye.