Q2 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day and welcome to the SAP Q2 and Half-Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Stefan
Gruber. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the second quarter 2018. I'm joined by our CEO,
Bill McDermott; and `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO, who will both make opening remarks on the call today.
Also joining us for Q&A are board members, Rob Enslin, who runs Cloud Business Group; Bernd
Leukert, who leads Products & Innovation; as well as `Jennifer Morgan, President, Americas and Asia Pacific Japan, Global Customer Operations and Adaire Fox-Martin, who
together run Global Customer Operations.
Before we get started, I would like to say a few words about forward-looking statements and our
use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that are not historical
facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project,
predict, should, outlook and will, and similar expressions as they relate to SAP, are intended to
identify such forward-looking statements.
SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements and all
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial
results are discussed more fully in our filings with the U.S. SEC, including SAP's annual report onForm 20-F for 2017 filed with the SEC on February 28, 2018. Participants of this call are cautioned
not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their
dates.
In addition, on our Investor Relations website you can find our quarterly statement, our half year
report, and the financial summary slide deck, which are all intended to supplement our prepared
remarks today, and include a reconciliation from our non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers. Unless
otherwise noted, all financial numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS and growth
rates are non-IFRS at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide should not
be considered as substitute for or superior to the measure of financial performance prepared in
accordance with IFRS.
And with that, I'd like to turn things over to our CEO, Bill McDermott.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Stefan. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll be brief in my remarks
so we can get to your questions. We're now in the ninth consecutive year of consistent growth for
SAP. During this time, we established a new HANA world to replace the disk-based database. We
engineered the fourth generation of ERP with S/4HANA. We extended the enterprise into the
Business Networks. We assembled the most cloud users in the enterprise application software
industry. In every quarter, along this journey, our results have proven this to be the winning
strategy for SAP.
SAP's trifecta of strong software and support sales, fast cloud growth and operating income
expansion, is now the gold standard in the industry. Our market share gains continued in Q2, as
cloud revenues soared 40% year-on-year in constant currencies. For those keeping score, that's a
5% beat. And one sign of our thriving cloud business, cloud bookings grew 29%; and another,
pay-as-you-go revenue in Fieldglass, Ariba, Concur, SAP Cloud Platform, and HANA Enterprise
Cloud is ramping really fast. You'll get more detail on that in a little bit.
In this global war for talent, SAP SuccessFactors Employee Central new customers increased 42%
year-on-year. I'm sure that's quite concerning to our competitors. Driven by fast adoption of SAP
S/4HANA, cloud and software revenue grew by a stellar 10%. Now, keep in mind, the software
only – the software license on a stand-alone basis compared against our toughest quarter in 2017,
so don't get too worked up on it.
New cloud and software order entry grew even faster at 12% and even with a higher mix of cloud
and services revenue, operating profit surged 12%, while we expanded margin. And just to be
clear, if you take into account the Callidus effect and the cloud mix with the cloud beat, you'd be
at a 1 point margin improvement on a year-over-year basis, so feel really good about the margins.
We're on a roll.
Some of the most prestigious brands in the world chose SAP solutions in Q2, including Chevron,
Thomson Reuters, McDonald's China, Whirlpool, and the U.S. Navy, to name a few. Enel is now live
and they are the biggest SAP S/4HANA installation in the world. As you'll hear from Luka in a few
moments, Q2 showed decisively that SAP is a balanced, sustainable, profitable growth company.
There's one topic I will cover in some depth before I hand it over to Luka.
One month ago at SAPPHIRE, we launched SAP C/4HANA as the new standard for fourth
generation CRM. Here is the big picture. CEOs understand that serving their customers must be
the unifying business priority. They know this can't be done when the sales department doesn't
work with the finance department, or when the marketing department doesn't share data withthe supply chain, or when the human resources team doesn't know how to engage the fast-
growing contract workforce.
Unfortunately, we have seen too many businesses revert to the siloed practices of failed
enterprises, so it's no coincidence that many were actually disrupted by innovative competitors.
Those disruptors built the entire company as a single integrated machine to serve that customer
from demand chain to supply chain. Keep in mind, SAP was founded 46 years ago to solve a CEO
business problem, integrating a fractured enterprise. Today, we are rising yet again to deliver a
revolutionary end-to-end customer experience. Every asset in our portfolio has been carefully
assembled to deliver the intelligent enterprise.
SAP HANA Data Management Suite, including Data Hub, the data control tower to power the
customer experience without ever moving the data. SAP C/4HANA to handle the customer data
marketing, commerce, sales, and service as an integrated modern front-office. SAP
SuccessFactors, bringing the total workforce together in service to the customer relationship. SAP
S/4HANA, cloud ERP built with industry-next practices as the ultimate fulfillment engine. SAP
Digital Supply Chain, to innovate the manufacturing process with groundbreaking new
technologies; never more important with global trade issues that we see in the market today.
SAP Business Networks, extending the supply chain beyond the walls of the enterprise to drive a
network effect. SAP Leonardo and Analytics Cloud, intelligence embedded into every SAP
solution to drive mass personalization and predictability. SAP Cloud Platform, integrating the
intelligent enterprise around a single view of the customer. SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud, to help
businesses run in whichever environment best serves their customers. So, ladies and gentlemen,
there's only one company in the industry that can help businesses revolutionize how they serve
their customers.
The C/4HANA front-office suite is playing in a different league than sales force automation. When
you combine all of our assets together, this is the real power of integration to serve the customer
with real solutions. For any who may doubt SAP's ambition in this area, please consider, in Q2,
C/4HANA is already growing at steep triple-digits. Our organic growth is more than 5 times our
primary competitor in this segment. Our pipeline for the remainder of the year has accelerated
dramatically. And as a signal of our confidence, SAP will highlight C/4HANA momentum on a
quarterly basis, so you have visibility. I expect that you will see similarly strong growth in the
quarters to come. That's right, triple-digit.
Customer to core, front-office to fulfillment, C/4HANA to S/4HANA, great moments are born
from great opportunity. Ours is to redefine the CRM industry. We have the strategy. We have the
solutions. We have the ambition. As you gather from my remarks, we are bullish about SAP's
prospects to unleash yet another new wave of growth. SAP has made a clear argument. Our
customers are already validating our strategy in Q2. And, as a signal of our confidence, today, we
are raising not only our 2018 full year guidance. We are also raising our 2020 cloud ambition. This
company is fired up and ready to go.
Our 94,000 colleagues believe in the work we do every day and they could not be more
passionate to help this world run better and improve people's lives. I'm really looking forward to
your questions today. So for now, it's my pleasure to hand it over to our CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer. Luka,
over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks a lot, Bill. Yeah. As you can tell from the financial results shared by Bill, our strongnow coming from more predictable revenue streams in the quarter. We continue to grow
profitably, even with severe currency headwinds in Q2.
Now to the highlights of the quarter. First, as Bill said, our cloud revenue grew by 40%. This is a
stellar result. If you consider that even excluding the contribution from Callidus, we are tracking
very nicely above the cloud CAGR implied in our 2020 ambition.
New cloud bookings grew by 29% on top of the strong performance in Q2 last year. Note that
new cloud bookings is only one component of future cloud revenue. As Bill mentioned, we are
seeing accelerating pay-as-you-go revenue in our cloud business, and none of this is even
included in the new cloud bookings metric. And remember that new high-growth cloud solutions,
like S/4HANA Cloud and C/4HANA, will have more impact on growth as they scale to be a bigger
part of the mix.
Now to software, which, even with a tough comparison from last year, was still fully in-line with our
implied 2018 and 2020 mid-term aspirations. The continuous momentum of S/4HANA, HANA full-
use, our digital supply chain solution, as well as our global risk and compliance solutions
contributed to the resilience of our software business in the quarter.
Total new business, which is best demonstrated by the combination of cloud total contract value
and software license order entry, was again up double-digits at 12%. And to underscore the scale
that our cloud business has reached by now, the share of cloud in this metric is now close to 60%.
Support revenue came in very, very strong, up 7%. This was the result of our strong license
performance in 2017, continued very strong renewals, and lower sales allowances, indicating the
strong stickiness of our support services with our customers. All of this drove double-digit cloud
and software growth. This is a fantastic performance. We are clearly outpacing the market, even
at the large scale that we have already reached.
Now, a few words on the second quarter regional results. We had a very strong performance in
the EMEA region, with cloud and software revenue increasing 12%. Cloud revenue grew by 46%,
with Germany and the UK being highlights. In addition, we had strong double-digit software
revenue growth in the UK, and the Middle East and Germany had another strong quarter with
solid single-digit software license growth.
We also had a solid performance in the Americas region, despite a significant currency headwind.
Cloud and software revenue grew by 8%. Cloud revenue increased by 35%, led in particular by a
very strong performance in Brazil. In the APJ region, we had a robust performance. Cloud and
software revenue was up 11%. Cloud revenue grew by 52%, with China and Japan being
highlights. For software revenue, Australia, China, and India had impressive quarters and grew
each by double-digits.
Briefly now on to the IFRS 15 impact, which as you know we adopted on January 1 this year. Our
operating profit in the quarter was positively impacted by a €54 million through this accounting
change.
With that, let me now come to profitability and gross margins. Gross margins in cloud, software
and support, and services were a clear highlight. They were all up year-over-year. We continue to
have a significant revenue mix shift effect between our cloud and on-premise business, which
meant our cloud and software gross margin was slightly down year-over-year to 81.2% despite all
of the individual business models improving their gross margin performance.Our cloud margin again expanded sequentially to 63.6% and was also up 1.2 percentage points
year-over-year. This great result in Q2 shows that our turnaround starting in Q1 continues to gain
momentum. This is mainly visible in the strong improvement of our SaaS/PaaS public cloud gross
margin, which increased by 4 percentage points year-over-year to 60.4%, driven by strong top
line growth, as well as the tapering off of upfront costs for the Converged Cloud platform.
The Business Network margin continued its path to exceed 80% in 2020 and is now already at
77.4%, an increase of close to 50 basis points year-over-year. The Private Cloud margin likewise
accelerated upward by 5 percentage points year-over-year, as a function of the increased scale
and expanding renewal base in our HANA Enterprise Cloud business. Our services gross margin
was again up by 3 percentage points to 26.5% year-over-year. This strong result shows the first-
class organization we have become with our successful transformation. Our margin is now much
higher than what we usually see in the services industry.
The combination of strong top line, strong cloud gross margin improvement, and operating
expense discipline led again to strong operating profit growth of 12% in the quarter. We achieved
this while continuing to invest in our people and our portfolio, adding approximately 6,700
employees year-over-year. As indicated in Q1, our organic hiring in the quarter slowed to just 700
additional heads. As a result, our operating margin increased by 40 basis points despite the
headwinds from the recently-closed Callidus acquisition and the significant revenue mix shift
effect.
Now let me turn quickly to taxes and EPS; the IFRS effective tax rate increased by 3.4 percentage
points to 30%. This came primarily from FX as a result of intercompany financing and changes in
foreign currency exchange rates in Venezuela. The non-IFRS tax rate was virtually unchanged at
27.8%. The IFRS earnings per share increased by 8% to $0.60 for the quarter; non-IFRS EPS
increased by 5% to $0.98.
Now to cash flow, Q2 operating cash flow decreased mainly due to the timing of stock-based
compensation payments, currency headwinds, as well as higher tax and insurance payments.
These effects offset SAP's positive business development and lower DSOs, which went down
year-over-year by 4 days to 68 days. Free cash flow for the half year was also lower due to the
previously announced additional CapEx for 2018.
Finally, as Bill alluded to already, we are raising our 2018 outlook due to the strong cloud business.
At the same time, we have updated our currency expectations for the impact on reported growth
rates. We are also raising our cloud revenue ambition for 2020 to reflect our strong cloud
momentum and the acquisition of Callidus. The 2020 ambition now also takes into account the
severe currency headwinds we have seen. For more details, please refer to our quarterly
statement published earlier today.
Before closing, I would also like to talk about a few of our key non-financial metrics. They're
equally important to us in steering a sustainable business. This quarter, we again increased the
number of women in management to 25.8%, as our efforts to promote diversity and equality
continue. Our Integrated Report was ranked the leader in the non-financials ranking of the DAX
30 companies by reporting expert. SAP was also featured among the top 25 of the 2,400
companies ranked in the report, Corporate Sourcing of Renewables: Industry and Market Index
(sic) [Market and Industry Trends] by the Carbon Disclosure Project and the International
Renewable Energy Agency.
So to summarize, this quarter's results perfectly reflect our core strategy, to rapidly transform the
company to the cloud, while substantially growing profits and margins. We are taking marketshare and we are indisputably growing faster in the cloud than our competitors. We have the
broadest portfolio and we are the most geographically diversified cloud business in the industry.
I'm very confident this momentum will continue. That's why we raised both our 2018 outlook and
our 2020 ambition.
Thank you. And we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Operator, we can now start the Q&A session, please.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. We will take our first
question from Mohammed Moawalla from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you very much. I have two questions. The first one is just on the software license
progression. We've now seen sort of three consecutive quarters of declines and I appreciate
there's a sort of tougher comparison versus a year-ago. But are you seeing a significant change in
the way that sort of customers are now deploying things like S/4HANA more sort of in the hybrid
model and exploring alternative deployment models? And is this likely to mean that you're more
likely to be in the lower band of that 0% to -5% license growth? And related to that, given this is,
obviously, a higher margin business and I know over time this will, obviously, shrink in the mix, how
do you manage that on the bottom line and the margin?
And then second question was just on the cloud, obviously, very strong growth in the quarter.
What are the sort of some of the key products and the levers that you see to kind of continue
this momentum? Specifically, you called out the kind of pay-as-you-go side. Could you give us a
bit more color and what gives you visibility there? And then lastly on sort of C/4HANA maybe
some color and metrics around the pipeline and where you see kind of the big opportunities,
either inside or outside the installed base. Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Mohammed, thank you very much for your question. First of all, on license revenue, it is true that
it's a hybrid cloud deployment model out there. It is also true that we're still able to sell the
licenses and you shouldn't walk away from Q2 with any theory that we won't hit our 2018
expectations, because we will, and that will flow-through to the bottom line and give you the
leverage you're looking for. We are, obviously, leaning into the cloud, because that's where the
growth is. And I think if we were to tell you today that we exceeded our expectations in the
license line and missed in the cloud, you'd be very worried about our future. So we have our hand
on the till. We're going to manage both of those objectives to get you the core license revenue
with the rich margin set and the leverage on the profit flow-through and you'll also see continued
momentum in the cloud. I'll let Luka give you some color on the products, but we're really in great
shape.
You also have to keep in mind, we had a big SAPPHIRE and in this big SAPPHIRE, where we
announced C/4HANA, where you saw the message to have demand and supply on an interactive
integrated platform between C/4HANA and S/4HANA, some of the larger transactions were a
little bit late, because of that, especially in the United States, which is not unusual. We've seen thisbefore and at the same time, their cloud performance in the United States, as an example, was
extraordinary. So, all good, everything holding, ever steady in the business model, and our
pipeline and forecasts are right where we wanted them, and especially in Q3 and Q4. Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks a lot, Bill, and just to add on the margin side. Look, at the half-year point, we're
currently showing a 70 basis points increase at constant currencies, and that is actually for the half
year what we wanted to reach and what we have reached. The composition between Q1 and Q2
was a little bit different. We had been facing our strongest and toughest compare in Q1 and held
the ground very nicely there. That was the reason why in Q1 the margin was up quite above
expectations than we had originally. And now, basically, at the midyear point, we are at where we
believed we would be at the software license side, given the tougher comparisons, and as the
mix between Q1 and Q2 has shifted, the margin is slightly lower.
Just to help you compare that, on the revenue mix shift effect alone between our expectations
Q1 versus Q2 and how we ended up, that's a 40 basis point swing. And if you continue to include
the CallidusCloud effect of 30 basis points, actually the margin progression is quite comparable
between Q1 and Q2. And in the second half year, we definitely have visibility into our book of
business and we have the easier comparison, so you should not be worried at all. So far,
everything is going as predicted and we have every reason to believe that we will end strong.
Otherwise, we would not have raised our guidance for the full year.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Mohammed, just to finish on the question on products, because I'm sure this is interesting
to everybody. The top five cloud products driving the growth are C/4HANA and S/4HANA Supply
Chain Cloud, Analytics Cloud database. Obviously, HANA has also now moved to the cloud, and
that's an interesting cloud-based model, and the SAP Cloud Platform. This really forms the
Intelligent Suite in the cloud.
And as it relates to the pay-as-you-go, I was referring to Ariba, Fieldglass, and Concur. This has
now formed a spend management category. By a lot, these are the market-leading companies in
the spend management category, so therefore you're seeing a very nice wedge chart of to be
determined revenue that's signed up for and once it's consumed, the revenue starts hitting the
cash register. That business is looking real good.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
That's great. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
We will take our next question from Walter Pritchard from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thank you. A question for Luka on the 2020 ambition. You did raise the cloud, but you also raised
total revenue, if I look at it on a constant currency basis. And I'm wondering if you could give us alittle bit more detail into what drove the raise in the total 2020 revenue in addition to cloud. And
then I had one follow-up.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So in terms of the total revenue ambition, it is obvious that we are running a portfolio of
winners across all of our business models. The cloud business, obviously, is winning, as you have
seen, but we have done the tough work to redirect our services business towards optimized set-
ups for today's digital reality. You have seen that in 10% service revenue growth, as well as the
materially expanded margin, our utilization is running at a very high level. The order intake is very
strong in services, so definitely that business is on a very positive path as well.
And then in the core, in software and support in combination, we see actually that the resilience,
in particular in our support business, is actually rather regaining strength, and that is a testament
to the strong collaborative work that has been happening all across GCO, which is our field-facing
organization, together with our services organization to really make sure that we understand
customer needs, that we provide value as part of our service offerings. So we feel very strongly,
likewise, about the resilience of our core business. So, if you have only winning businesses in your
portfolio, then it's rather simple to have a positive view also on the total revenue side.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. And then just if...
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Is there a follow-up, Walter?
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Yeah, sure. If Rob Enslin is on or maybe Bill can take this one, but on the HCM side, I know you've
made some leadership changes in that area in the last year. Maybe I'd love to hear an update on
progress there, growth rates, success, and you gave some metrics around the core, but just
general update on the HCM category.
A - `Robert Enslin, President, Cloud Business Group `
Yeah, Walter, so we've made – the changes are actually now, I guess, nine months to a year and
what we seen is amazing innovation in the product. What we're doing with Google and with Apple
and how our customers are consuming SuccessFactors is making a significant difference. We also
– Bill gave some numbers in the beginning how we've expanded SuccessFactors globally and we
continue to see I think it was 40% customer growth in SuccessFactors across the board, so this is
becoming one of the engines for SAP.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `Operator
From Barclays, we have `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd..
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple, if I may. Just first of all on the cloud bookings, if
you include kind of pay-as-you-go revenues in kind of bookings you get which are not captured at
the moment in bookings, what growth would you have had in the kind of quarter?
And then secondly, just going back on the licenses, I noted that the last two quarters actually the
volume growth has been maintained, but we've seen a bit of a dip in the large deals. This
combined with the comments you made on the U.S. slippage, have these deals now been
closed? And then what was the reason for the slippage?
And then finally on the margin, I think the second half – or, sorry, the guidance implies that the
second half should see a 40 basis points underlining improvement in the margin for the second
half. Do you expect this to becoming linear in the two quarters or should we see quite a strong
Q4 ramp? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'll first of all – go ahead.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Oh, no. I just want to thank you for the question, because it really gives us a chance to talk about
this. Again, C/4HANA was a major launch. That launch took place in Orlando in the United States;
the attendees at SAPPHIRE, about 80% from the United States. Many customers are now
rationalizing how they think about this demand and supply chain real-time company they want to
run. And in a couple of cases where there were substantial large ones, they moved into the next
quarter. And, yes, they're closed.
And the important thing to put in front of you on this is I'm really happy because the deal volume
outside the largest deals actually went up, and the only place we saw any delta was in the large
deals, and we know exactly which ones they were. So we have a very, very good license revenue
business unlike anyone else in our industry. And in Q3 and Q4 you will see a leveling. It's not going
to be pushed to Q4. You'll see Q3 deliver as expected and back on, what I would say is, the year-
over-year growth track you're referring to or you're looking for, so no worries there whatsoever.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And let me complement Bill's statements with two additional questions that you had. First
of all, on margin progression, no, we don't estimate that the progression will be heavily or overly
skewed towards Q4. Why is that? Because last year we had already in Q4, as you might recall, a
quite significant margin progression to almost flat margins. That's why we believe this will be
more equally distributed. But, of course, our compare on the license side in Q4 is probably the
easiest when you compare the different quarters, and that might give us towards the end an
opportunity to outperform if everything goes well.
In terms of the cloud bookings, look, I mean, I think it's prudent for us to only put out there is new
cloud bookings number as a hard number, what is really committed, and therefore is guaranteed
for consumption. However, we see, of course, a pattern that the uncommitted pieces that weas well. And what I can give you as a directional figure here is that when you take a look at the
performance of our new cloud bookings, which was at 29% constant currency growth, and you
take a look at our Business Networks business and their booking success, including uncommitted
bookings, you would actually look at a roughly 15% uplift to that based on the new cloud bookings
performance.
So it is actually a very strong business component that over time will find its way into the P&L.
There are different adoption patterns here, obviously, as well at work. But it gives you an idea
how strong the underlying order entry take-up in our Business Network business was in Q2. It was
truly a highlight of our overall business portfolio.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And just one fun point of it all. If you just take something like – I don't know – let's go with
Fieldglass, let's have some fun. You'd be in triple-digits, triple-digit growth. So just think about
that concept as you take a tremendous asset, you think about total workforce management with
full-time and contracted for labor, and you see that network growing in triple-digits on a year-
over-year basis. It's like a big wow.
And when I think about the Intelligent Enterprise, and I think about the CEOs out there and the
notion of how you put an intelligent suite together with C/4, S/4, a supply chain that deals with
tariffs and other tax matters that are going on globally, I think total workforce management, total
spend management, everything in an integrated solution, a suite tailored for an industry, I mean,
to me this is a home run. This is where the market is. This is where we are. And when we meet
the market with a better idea, it always wins and growth follows. So I think you should feel really
good about the cloud. I don't think you should be at all concerned with mix. And as Luka said,
back out the Callidus effect and the mix effect, and you've got your margin profile that you're
looking for, not to mention a double-digit operating income expansion. So, the whole story is
there.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Very clear. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking the question. If I could ask two as well. Maybe just first of all on
C/4 to dig in a little bit further. When we look at the installed base, could you give us any specifics
around how loyal that base has been to you versus the main competitor? So what I'm really trying
to get at, is this a replacement sale that you're going to have to make with the base, or is it an
upsell and where it is upsell? When you look at the portfolio today, how much bigger is it? How
much more can you sell into that base as a multiple versus – I don't know – two or three years
ago? Just to give us some feel for what the opportunity could be on the base for C/4 and how
difficult it's going to be to execute.And then maybe coming back to S/4HANA, obviously, very successful ramp-up with customers.
When we speak to partners, obviously, an ERP reimplementation is difficult, and there's been
some debate around the go-lives versus sales. Could you maybe give us a little bit of a feel for
where you are with that today, and what you're doing to help automate that process and make it
easier? And is there any risk of that becoming an impediment for further adoption that a
reimplementation of ERP is a challenge? Thank you.
A - `Robert Enslin, President, Cloud Business Group `
So let me go with the C/4HANA. Adam, great question. Actually, I wouldn't call it cross-sell/upsell. I
would call it new sell. We are changing the market with CRM. We are completely redefining how
our customers are going to perceive what they want to do with their customers and how they
want to link their supply chains to their customers. So we see the opportunity as massive growth,
massive addressable market, delighted with the acquisition. The integration with Callidus is one
of the fastest we've ever had in SAP. It'll be on HANA within the next couple of months. We'll have
a complete suite in nine months and the pipeline is exceptionally strong. So I would say coming
out of SAPPHIRE, we're hitting on all cylinders. Clearly, our customers love the story and they love
where we're going, and it's going to be a significant opportunity for SAP.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And incidentally, just to put our money where our mouth is, triple-digit growth in the back-end of
the year, big crayon, mark it down.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, President, Americas and Asia Pacific Japan, Global Customer Operations `
So on the question around the migration of our customers to S/4, I'll perhaps just make a few
comments on the program that we're running and the opportunity that we see, not just for our
customers, but also very importantly for the SAP ecosystem. Many of our ecosystem partners
have recognized this opportunity and are actually building significant practices in order to address
it. We recognize that in SAP there are a series of tools and techniques that we need to provide to
our customers in order to support their journey. Many of our customers today have
customizations in their current environment and we need to address those customizations.
In order to do that, we have a three-prong approach: working with our colleagues in
development, working with our colleagues in services, and also, of course, with our ecosystem.
We have a series of assessment tools that allow a customer to understand where they are today
and the path for them specifically to move to S/4. Each customer will be given a clear migration
path supported by a set of automation tools. For each customer, we will develop a very clear
business case that justifies the why for that customer in terms of the move. And as far as
implementation is concerned, we are looking to manage the implementation costs along the
concept of a model company, where by industry we will implement on a industry-by-industry basis
a template that reduces the cost and the time to move to S/4HANA.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And maybe just to round this up and complement it with numbers. I mean, we have made
good progress in this respect. We have close to 2,000 live customers on S/4HANA by now
already, and we have another close to 3,000 ongoing implementation projects, which means
given that the implementation timeframe for S/4HANA is greatly reduced versus, let's say,
traditional ECC implementations of the past decade, we will soon have 5,000 reference
customers to speak for us.A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
And, Adam, this is Bernd. Maybe to add just a flavor of differentiating between on-premise and
cloud, we saw, especially in the last quarter, an outstanding performance of the entire S/4
business. We have high triple-digit growth in the cloud and the number of new names in the cloud
in total was more than the number of new names over the entire fiscal year 2017. And, of course,
in the cloud, when you talk to implementation time and go-lives, we speak in weeks. While you
are right, the methodology Adaire was explaining was fully focusing on our installed base on-
premise business, but here we have massively reduced according to the methodology, but as
well of the tools we have provided to the service organization of SAP, but as well to the partners.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
That's really helpful. Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And one thing that's really interesting – or maybe couple things really interesting. The ecosystem
is truly massive at SAP and with the cloud accelerating growth like this we have a smart
ecosystem. They know when to jump onboard and, for example, the intelligence in the
application, in the business process itself driving our Intelligent Enterprise strategy is something
that has been broadly adopted by the partners. And, in fact, if you listen to the IBM earnings, IBM
said that they are seeing HANA and S/4HANA driving workloads and driving growth in their
business. So I think IBM, since they just reported, is a very good example for this phenomenon.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
`Alex Tout, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG from Deutsche Bank has our next question.
Q - `Alex Tout, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah, hi, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Just a few quick fire ones. Firstly, on maintenance,
7% constant currency growth in the quarter, very strong. Could you just give us a bit of color on
why that should have been and whether that normalizes somewhat in the second half of 2018?
Secondly, I wonder on the cash flow side of things whether you can quantify the impact from the
IFRS 15 changes there. And then just finally, an update on the progress of moving off the dual
running of infrastructure for the cloud business. I think you last said that that was due to be
completed by the end of the year. Just the question is whether that's still your expectation. Thank
you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, definitely all good questions. So, first of all, on the maintenance, the reasons are relatively
simple. We have a very, very low churn, actually lower than what we have seen historically in the
last 24 months. So there's been great work done by the field, as well as our service organizationin embracing a specific customer loyalty program, which we are working really very strongly with
customers where we have to signal that we have to double down in terms of value creation in
order to preserve maintenance. This has been extremely successful.
At the same time, as I said during my prepared remarks, there is also an extremely low level of
sales allowances, so we are hardly losing support revenues due to customer defections. And at
the same time, I think we manage the process of extensions towards the cloud in a very
professional way. Those are all very value creative and are not really cannibalistic for our support
revenues, and that drove the strong growth.
In terms of the timeframe, just very quickly on the move off of third-party database in our cloud
business, that's on track. That will conclude by the end of the year. We are even now including
within that scope Callidus, as Rob has said, and we are working as well with a high priority to
move them off during a similar timeframe. So that is going very well and as of next year should
give us then the substantial savings that we will get from the convergence on our own
technology.
Yeah, in terms of the cash flow situation, I know that it looks at the face quite negative with a 15%
decline in half year one. There are various effects here. First of all, there is a timing change and a
phasing change on the payment of share-based compensation expenses. In the past, they were
done in the latter half of the year. Now with our new move program they are happening in the
first half, and that's alone an impact to the range of €180 million.
Next to that, we had extraordinary tax payments. You see that a little bit also in the increasing
effective tax rate, but clearly end of last year we had some IP migrations, which gave us some
very positive onetime benefits, as you might recall. Now, of course, we have to pay the exit
taxation for those migrations in the respective countries, and that has resulted in a cash-out that
was also in the low triple-digit-million euro range.
You're absolutely right that we have, of course, with the capitalized sales commissions a major
positively influencing P&L effect that is a non-cash item. We have disclosed in our figures the
amount that we have been saving on the expense side due to the capitalization of sales
commissions. So for the first half year this was roundabout €80 million on top, and that, of course,
has an impact as well in terms of a non-cash flow, but positive item for operating profit. So that's
the main impact.
There's an additional one as well from our restructuring program for last year, which you might
recall was geared towards our services business. We now have an additional cash flow impact
from making insurance payments – increased insurance payments, to safeguard the time credit of
our people that have taken advantage of the early retirement program last year, and that was a
cash item that became effective in 2018.
Having said this, due to the timing change that I alluded to before, we believe that the
progression in the second half year should be more positive in the year-over-year comparison. So
also from a cash flow perspective, no reason to worry, the second half will see an improvement.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. from UBS. Please go ahead.Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Just going back to S/4, I think at the start of the year there was an
ambition to double the level of migrations. I think in the full year last year was about 2,500 all-in
new and migration customers. Do you think you're still on track for that and to get 50% of the ERP
customers on to S/4 by 2020?
And then just secondly, in terms of the 2020 guidance uplift, can you talk a bit about the mix of
cloud in 2020 now? Is all of the uplift related to SaaS and PaaS, and does it change your margin
expectations? And more broadly, I mean, it looks like you've raised your margin targets at
constant currency in 2020 despite a higher cloud mix, and I'm just curious as to what's giving you
the confidence on that. Thank you.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Yeah. Maybe, Michael, I'll start with the first part of the question related again to S/4 and the
migration, and the question is, are we on track? We are absolutely on track. Luka already shared
with you that we have passed 1,900 customers who are actually live. We are having 2,900 who
are in the process of going live, and we reported at the beginning of the year that we target
3,000 to be live end of the year. If you add the two numbers, we will end up close to 5,000. And
we know that especially towards the end of the year that there is a dedicated season when
customers have a high peak of adoption and using the window of holiday breaks to go live, so we
are extremely confident that we are not just on track. We will outperform this.
And the rationale behind it is that we have moved the conversation from do I move towards S/4,
how fast do I move? And that goes in line with consolidation of the systems, but as well massive
benefits in terms of reducing cost of operations at our customers and a massive value they get
out of the business process reengineering. And there is, I would say, not a single customer
meeting where this is not one of the top three agenda items day in and day out.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
And maybe to complement this, first with the question on the cloud mix for 2020. As you know,
when we originally stated our 2020 ambition, we had kind of an implied expectation that our
Infrastructure-as-a-Service business would be somewhere around 15%, 16%, and the rest would
be basically shared between Business Networks and our SaaS/PaaS business.
Today, we see that growth in terms of in particular SaaS/PaaS business is starting to outperform
the growth of a smaller Infrastructure-as-a-Service business, again, which is good from a margin
perspective for the cloud. And so we believe that in 2020 the share of Infrastructure-as-a-Service
will actually be rather around 10% or 11% mark than 15% or 16%, and indeed SaaS/PaaS will
basically fill up for the difference, which is positive for margins. That's one of the reasons why we
continue to be very confident around the operating income ambition, which we have, as you said,
retained in unchanged format.
But, of course, we are also closer now to that target. We have seen the operational progress that
we have made in 2018. We are seeing that the turnaround is starting to happen and that the
organization is following through with the required focus on the growth drivers and a
deemphasizing of legacy areas that are not able to grow anymore. The services business is
another strong component, because it has progressed very well, not only from a top line
perspective, but has become actually a very positive contributor through steady margin
increases, and all of that is giving us the confidence to uphold these figures, even despite theA - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Michael, one point that should be added to all of this is the ecosystem. If you think about the
growth in S/4HANA, Deloitte, Accenture, Capgemini, IBM – IBM talked about the mass adoption
of HANA driving their workloads – they're adopting HANA in mass to run S/4HANA on it. So the
partners are going where the money is, and that's S/4HANA is the in memory core ERP in the 21st
century. And now the next big wave will be the C/4HANA combination with S/4HANA. And I'm
excited, because when the partners are as motivated as they are right now, that generally leads
to upside surprises at SAP.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC from Evercore.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Yes. Thanks very much. Just two questions for me. I guess, first for Luka. Just to put a fine point
on this, if we looked at order entry for the cloud business in aggregate and sort of on an organic
basis ex-Callidus, I assume it sounds like it was a very good quarter. I just want to make sure
that's the case, because I think some people might take some of the Callidus revenue, back it
out from bookings, and make the case that sort of bookings decelerated in cloud. And I think you
guys are making an opposite point on that front.
And then secondly just I had a question maybe for Bernd on blockchain. I know you guys are
running a lot of proof-of-concepts around blockchains for certain industries. I was wondering if
you could just sort of update us on how that's going, and maybe the opportunity to monetize that
as we start looking out maybe 12 to 18 months. Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks very much, Kirk, a very good question on the order entry and let's set the record straight
here. The contribution of Callidus to our bookings growth is smaller than the contribution on the
revenue line. So our growth on the bookings side at constant currency backing out on Callidus
would have been in the mid-20s, 25% basically. And when you then put on top the much higher
performance, when you include the uncommitted more pay-as-you-go bookings, which as we
know are going to transfer into revenues, that's a very strong performance that is giving us all the
fuel that we need in order to further accelerate on the cloud line.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
And then maybe a note on blockchain. I think the hype and the excitement around blockchain is
accelerating every day, especially in the last couple of weeks we have signed many co-innovation
agreements around the blockchain technology, where companies intend to partner with us,
where we contribute our technology experience, they contribute their domain expertise. We even
have created a consortium at SAPPHIRE in Orlando. We were expecting that at that launch date of
blockchain consortium that roughly 20 customers will join. I'm proud to report that, on day one,
we had more than 50 customers joining the blockchain consortium and in the meantime, we have
passed the threshold of 70.In terms of where are we, we are in the process of discussing, aligning the value of the
technology and expose that in the application. So I expect, especially in the next couple of weeks,
to get real proof points, and then I'm 100% sure that the commercial aspects and the impact on
the P&L will follow, while this is too early to report this now at the end of Q2.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Kirk, you know how it works, right? It's all about the industry-specific nature of these
solutions. So, for example, a couple of cases I've personally been involved in. One is pharma. So if
you think about track and trace and removing counterfeit from the pharma industry and the cold
chain, where you can track the temperature of these very sensitive pharma products that are
really all about keeping people safe and healthy, pretty amazing.
And then food, there isn't a single food company out there that isn't talking about farm-to-table
and quality safety, and then also really keeping track of their suppliers to make sure they're
authenticated. We had one company in particular, who was in the coffee industry. They've literally
thousands and thousands of suppliers that work on coffee beans, but they have a great brand
and they serve a great product, and they want to make sure that the quality safety all the way
from the farm into the cup is rock solid. So these are applications that we're actually working on
right now that have tremendous implications for growth in industries. This could be a very nice
business.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Thank you very much.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. The next question, please?
Operator
Our next question comes from `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hey. Thanks, guys, for taking my question. First one for Bill and then the sales team that's on the
call here. One of the questions I get a lot from investors is about the manufacturing vertical,
because, obviously, SAP counts the largest manufacturing distributor process companies in the
world as customers, and you've got the kind of two sort of near-term opposing forces. You've
got the need for digital transformation. Then you, obviously, have sort of the noise of the political
side with trade war, et cetera. When you're talking to customers and you look at the business this
quarter and the pipeline for the second half, have you seen any sort of impact of the noise or is
the digital transformation just demand offset? So in other words, kind of what are you looking for
sort of in that pipeline, comment on that business. And then just one quick follow-up.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Bill. First of all, as you know, we took a digital supply chain and
manufacturing industry business unit approach to this very topic. And let me begin with, in the SAP
digital boardroom, we now have customers that are working with us to augment their supply
chains and their manufacturing processes in real-time on S/4HANA to accommodate the various
trade matters that are well-publicized in The Wall Street Journal.So as they think about the best way to manufacture or the best way to work with their supply
chain to optimize shareholder value, they're working with SAP in the digital boardroom. So this
too is lending itself to that demand and supply chain in real-time that I've been talking about, and
it manifests itself in the digital boardroom. So we have the industry business unit set up globally
with an excellent leader, one of our top leaders in the company. It's growing really fast, and again,
I think that this is a major topic.
Keep in mind, there's no company that is more global in the business software industry or more
industry-diverse, which is lending itself to these end-to-end demand and supply chain
conversations. So it's happening, because that's where our customers want us to go; integrate,
give me a solution, give me the agility to change on the fly, so I can make more money.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
And, Phil, you had a follow-up?
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Yeah. Just a follow-up. Obviously, Bill, you just mentioned IBM, their earnings focusing on HANA,
and one of the things we heard was that HANA was the fastest-growing workload on Google's
GCP platform. I'm sure we'll probably hear about that at the Next conference next week. When
you think about all these partnerships you have, particularly sort of in the AI platform world, how
do you think about SAP monetizing this? Is it more that, hey, you're going to make your
applications stickier and therefore, the renewal rates stay the same or maybe improve, or is this
something through Leonardo? And maybe this is a question for Bernd, where we have new
applications and new opportunities, it's not just a sort of call it a maintenance renewal strategy.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe I'll start it off, Phil, and then by all means I'll hand it over to Bernd. So first of all, you think
about end-to-end planning in a company. We have design partnerships. For example, one that
was announced this quarter was with ANSYS. We announced that at SAPPHIRE. Think about 3D
simulation in the design process. When you think about the impact of that with manufacturing and
a digital twin in IoT and real-time supply chain on HANA, you go right to SAP Leonardo and you
focus on deep machine learning and embedding that intelligence into the application itself. So, I
think these partnerships help us grow in terms of making our core even more relevant and we
get feet on the street that we're not paying for, but in some cases there's also license sharing
opportunities where we can make money on what they sell, not just what we sell.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
And, Phil, maybe to complement on your question on Leonardo. I think we have great traction of
our Cloud Platform and via the Cloud Platform we expose all our technology services. We expose
our Leonardo services and the unique offering which we have that, of course, this platform with
Leonardo technologies runs in our data centers, but up to my knowledge we are the only one
who is providing this platform, as well as a service on top of the known hyperscalers, which is
Microsoft, Google and Amazon, and that creates a lot of traction.
And your specific question, of course, HANA as a service is a key element of that, but what Bill
said before, we have expanded HANA to the HANA Data Management Suite, which allows
companies, which allows partners, to build and to innovate with a complete new set of
applications. In many cases, this is their domain expertise but as well here not just the support of
the hyperscalers as well to have an offering for data management, which consists of the mostmodern, most sophisticated platform HANA enhanced with data lakes is something I have not
seen in the industries. And if you combine this with the hyperscaler capabilities, this is a unique
offering and is creating traction with our service, but especially as well with the partner
organization and I would be glad to hear it at any technology conference, not just at Google Next
next week.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks a lot.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So think about it this way, Phil. As Bernd said, you have a platform, right? With the Data Hub,
now you have the demand and the supply all on the same platform, so it's a data game. And,
obviously, that leads companies to the conclusion that they can create net new business models
on the fly and basically go-to-market in new ways. And when you're with a partner and you come
up with a go-to-market story, it basically delivers about a 25% pricing productivity gain for SAP. So
if you see a good partnership and we're doing something special with a partner, it's generally a
25% uplift on the pricing based on value.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks, guys.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
We have time for two more questions.
Operator
From Merrill Lynch, we will take our next question from John King.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Thank you very much for taking the questions. I've got two as well. So, probably both for
Luka I think. So, firstly, on the margin front, the 2020 guidance looks for somewhere in the region
of 100 basis points, maybe 90 basis points of uplift relative to, I think, what you're guiding to for
this year. Most of that should come, I guess, from the cloud gross margin. And over and above
that, I think you're driving some efficiency in the sales and marketing organization and parts of the
back-office. So, I guess, what are the negatives that may offset that? Are you expecting to have
some kind of rise in depreciation or something else that is the balancing item?
And then, I guess, another long-term picture would be, you've obviously announced in the past
sustainably the licenses relative to cloud revenue. When do you think we get to that point where
cloud surpasses maintenance or support revenues? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's a very good question. On the second one, I would recommend to hang in until we have
our Capital Markets Day 2019, because there we want to lay out our vision for the SAP in the nextdecade, beyond 2020. And then you'll get a, I think, nice and pleasing answer also to this
question. So that's kind of a commercial for next year's Capital Markets Day.
In terms of the margin growth projection going into 2020 and the downside, well, the downside
and the headwind is very obvious. It's the fact that as of next year we will begin to amortize the
sales commission that we have capitalized at the beginning of this year. So that means that IFRS
15, which for this year was a tailwind for us, will start to turn into a headwind. And that headwind
will get larger in small increments year-after-year. That means that our expectation is that the
underlying organic margin progression will actually increase year-after-year to offset that and
continue to deliver the consistent margin expansion that I've been talking about.
And where is this coming from? You cited all of the right levers. First of all, the jump in gross
margin efficiency that we expect from our cloud business once we have the platform
convergence and the – of third-party database programs completed. And secondly also the
ongoing efficiency increases, not only actually in sales and marketing. We are also looking for
continued efficiency gains in general and admin functions. We start to implement our own AI
solutions in finance, for example. So I think there is a lot that we can do to automate things even
further without adding incremental capacity from head count perspective in those functions. And
that will ultimately in the mix get us towards the targets that we have set out.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Now let's take the final question of today's call.
Operator
The final question comes from `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC from RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks so much and thanks for squeezing me in. Maybe just two questions from me. Just on
cloud, as you talk about the pay-as-you-go mix moving higher, have you made specific changes
around invoicing term policy? Are you agnostic whether customers pay monthly, quarterly, annual?
And then maybe you could also talk about what's changed. So, are there products in the cloud
portfolio that you're now agnostic on invoicing terms relative to maybe how you would have
asked salespeople to close those deals last year? Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Ross, I don't want to make this too complicated, okay? The licensing model for SAP and the
cloud has not changed. We have certain attributes within the Business Network itself. Sometimes
you make money when suppliers activate in a network. You don't recognize that when you do the
SaaS contract. Sometimes we have business models like Fieldglass, where we recognize the
revenue upon consumption. So, for example, if you're 200% of your Fieldglass plan in a given
quarter, you don't recognize that in that quarter for the revenue that the customer signed up on.
You'll recognize that in the future quarters when they go live with those licenses. So that's
primarily Fieldglass as a business model.
And for the others, there are attributes around the network where we can make money beyond
just the rental contract for the software in a cloud. We haven't changed the business model.
There's no big legal review necessary. There's no contract review necessary. It's just that simple.
What we've been amazed by is the genius behind the Business Network move that we made inour M&A strategy when we set out to create this network in 2010 that is becoming even more
widely adopted than we thought.
And then when we put this Fieldglass as an example in the SAP channel and the reason why our
Employee Central is growing so much faster than the competition is because the customer has
recognized finally that the fastest-growing workforce in the world is temporary workers, not your
full-time equivalents. So they're signing up for the SaaS contract in Employee Central with
SuccessFactors, and they're signing up for Fieldglass in the network, and we don't recognize the
network – our revenue that we sign at the point-of-sale. We recognize that when it's actually
consumed by the customer. So you have this silent wedge chart in the background in the cloud
that is, what I would call, a very nice insurance policy for all of you, just knowing that SAP has
things going on in the cloud that you're not necessarily seeing in the current quarter. That's all you
need to know. Everything is really good.
And I do want to make a point here, especially since Stefan said it's the last question and I'm very
honored, Ross, that it goes to you. I want you guys to think about this. If you look at the full year
scenario at SAP, okay, we have a $30 billion software company. We have a cloud that's beating
expectations by 5%, growing at 40%. Be clear. Look at what you would commonly call the best-of-
breed cloud companies out there. Big question, are we growing faster than them, or slower than
them? Answer, we are growing faster than them.
Let's look at the core business, software and software-related services, which is that license and
support model that you watched for 30 years. Are we growing faster than the competition or
slower than them? We're the only one growing in double digits, so we're growing faster than
them. Operating income, we're the only one growing in double digits on a year-over-year basis,
as we have transformed the business model to the cloud, which is a ratably recognized revenue
model over time. This quarter, some people got a little bit worked up about the margin inflection
underneath the operating income and wanted a little bit more.
We said two things. One, there's a Callidus acquisition effect that leaned on it a little bit. And two,
the business mix was a little more favored towards the cloud, because we had a 5% beat. If you
back out that, you got your 1 point improvement on the margin on a year-over-year basis, not to
mention double-digit on the operating income.
What is it about this story you don't like? So, this is a global juggernaut, okay, a growth story on
the loose, and we can't wait to show you quarter in and quarter out C/4HANA plus S/4HANA and
a motivated workforce of 94,000 women and men that want to change the world. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Bill. This concludes our Q2 earnings call for today. Thank you all for joining,
and goodbye.
Operator
That will conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation and have a good day.