Q3 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the SAP Third Quarter 2018 Results Conference
Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over
to Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning or afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations. Thank you for joining us to discuss
our results for the third quarter 2018. I'm joined by our CEO, Bill McDermott; and `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, our
CFO, who will both make opening remarks on the call today.
Also joining us for Q&A, our Board Members Robert Enslin, who runs Cloud Business Group;
`Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation, who leads Product & Innovation; as well as Jennifer Morgan and Adaire Fox-Martin,
who together run our Global Customer Organization.
Before we get started, as usual, I would like to say a few words about forward-looking
statements and our use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that
are not historical facts are forward-looking statement as defined in the U.S. Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict,
should, outlook and will, and similar expressions as it relate to SAP are intended to identify such
forward-looking statements.
SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actualresults to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial
results are discussed more fully in SAP's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
the SEC, including SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2017 filed with the SEC on February 28,
2018.
Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of their dates.
In addition, on our Investor Relations website, you can find our quarterly statement and the
financial summary slide deck, which are intended to supplement our prepared remarks today, and
they include the reconciliation from a non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers.
Unless otherwise noted, all financial numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS and
growth rates and percentage-point changes are non-IFRS, constant currency year-over-year. The
non-IFRS financial measures we provide should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior
to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And finally, a save-the-date announcement. On February 7, 2019, we'll once again hold our Capital
Markets Day at the New York Stock Exchange. More information will follow as the date gets closer
and we are looking forward to seeing you again in New York City.
With that, I'll turn things over to our CEO, Bill McDermott.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Stefan. Nobody does that Safe Harbor statement like you.
Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. I'll make a few short comments before I
turn it over to Luka and he'll take you through our very strong Q3 results.
Here's the big picture. Since we launched our growth strategy and groundbreaking HANA
architecture nearly a decade ago, we have dramatically expanded our customer base, market
share, profitability, brand value, employee engagement and sustainability. This track record sets
the stage for our latest growth horizon, SAP powering the intelligent enterprise, so our customers
can better serve their customers.
Today, our Q3 results and raised 2018 outlook put SAP on track once again to exceed the full-
year ambitions we announced at the start of the year. With 41% cloud revenue growth in Q3, SAP
has the fastest cloud growth of any peer at scale in the enterprise application software industry.
We said that C/4HANA and S/4HANA would be major cloud growth drivers, both grew triple digits
in Q3. We said a bold integrated SAP would strengthen our individual best-of-breed offerings.
Today, the strong achievements of SAP Ariba, SAP Fieldglass, SAP Concur and SAP
SuccessFactors have proven us right. These are strong, well-led, customer-driven businesses for
SAP.
Three years ago, we said that cloud revenue would overtake license revenue in 2018. Today, the
fast adoption of our cloud solutions and business networks has accelerated this positive
development. We now have more than 170 million cloud users. Cloud revenue has now
superseded on-premise license revenue.
What's so powerful about SAP's market position, the resilience of our license business remains
ever steady, even as we grow the cloud beyond expectations. I can only remind everyone that
the accelerating shift to the cloud is exactly where we want SAP to be. Cloud has a higher lifetimevalue, drives faster consumption of innovation and has higher predictability going forward. We
plan for this transition. We guided for it, and we are delivering it.
Now, looking at the overall health of the business, combined cloud and software revenue growth
grew a stellar 10% in the quarter. Even with a higher mix of cloud and services revenue, operating
profit surged 11%, while at the same time, we expanded the absolute operating margin rate.
Future profitability looks even better as we reap the benefits of our Converged Cloud Platform
investment. From our analytics cloud and digital supply chain offerings to our digital business
services, SAP is delivering top-line and bottom-line success. All this is why we are ever resolute
today and that's why we are raising the full-year outlook in cloud, total revenue and operating
profit. I'll spend just a few moments on the macro picture before I hand it over to Luka.
CEOs in every industry tell me their major challenge is meeting consumer expectations. In this
experienced economy, trust is the ultimate human currency. Every business needs to protect that
trust by serving their consumers on a highly personalized basis. They need a true single view of
the customer, all while protecting personal data and security.
This is a much bigger imperative than the sales department alone can handle. This is about
connecting every person inside a company to each of the 7.5 billion potential consumers outside
the company. This is about building faster, more agile, customer-centric businesses in 25 distinctly
different industries, so every demand signal drives every behavior.
To solve key business challenges like order-to-cash conversion, total workforce management and
spend management, the SAP Intelligent Suite integrates best-of-breed functionality into a
seamless, consumer-grade user experience.
C/4HANA, S/4HANA and Business Networks have evolved the applications conversation way
beyond the conventional categories of well-known legacy vendors. To boost productivity in these
applications, SAP Leonardo predictive analytics, machine learning, IoT and blockchain are infused
into our end-to-end experience. To extend these solutions and integrate with hyperscale
infrastructure providers, the SAP Cloud Platform is the de facto business platform for the
intelligent enterprise. Powered by HANA, only SAP has the capacity to deliver this strategy in 190
countries around the world.
To build on the momentum, we also launched the Open Data Initiative with Microsoft and Adobe
last month. This effort gives customers more choice by standardizing the data model for
customer experience. When you move beyond the commercial sector, CEOs are also focused on
trade wars, political instability and market volatility. Again, this is playing to the strengths of SAP.
Our long track record is helping management teams navigate global uncertainty as best-run
businesses. In China, as one example, SAP and our engineering heritage has given us a
substantial advantage over our competitors. We just announced and expanded our partnership
with Alibaba to help customers in China transition to the cloud. In my meetings with prime
ministers and other world leaders, the conversation is about improving people's lives amid the
shift to artificial intelligence. SAP has never been more relevant in all of these discussions as the
trusted innovator.
We are elevating data and decision making from factory floors and sports arenas to digital
boardrooms and cabinet rooms on the front lines of public services. The company's higher
purpose, to help the world run better and improve people's lives, is the core of what drives us.
It's why our employees rate us higher than any other company on websites like Glassdoor. It's
why we were the first to receive EDGE Certification for gender diversity and inclusion. It's why wecreated a culture that prizes all diversity, gender, race, ethnicity and neurodiversity with autism at
work. The industry is about getting the best people, keeping them and inspiring them to do great
work. The soft stuff is the real stuff, and that's another reason why our story only gets bigger
from here.
In closing, the headlines for SAP is innovation and growth. We have a complete solutions portfolio,
HANA Data Management, end-to-end cloud applications, Business Networks, SAP Cloud Platform,
SAP Leonardo, all manifested in this great enterprise story. We're growing faster than our peers
and we are now selected by marquee brands like Giorgio Armani, Bombardier and McDonald's.
We're gaining share in the cloud with more wins against new and legacy competitors with great
new order entry rates.
We're expanding profitability and increasing shareholder value. The resulting trajectory for SAP
amounts to a structural incline, long-term sustainable profitable growth. I credit the 95,000
women and men of SAP for their tireless dedication. We're focused on helping our customers
unleash a new wave of growth as intelligent enterprises. Moments of fluid change call for
institutions of timeless commitment. 46 years ago, now and always, the best-run SAP is the
enduring ethos for the world's business software market leader.
Thank you for your time and interest in SAP. I look forward to your questions and assure you the
best is yet to come. Luka, over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks a lot, Bill. And as to my part, as you can also read from my quote in today's quarterly
statement, I absolutely share Bill's enthusiasm, and I'm extremely proud of SAP's excellent
business momentum in the cloud and strong operating profit performance.
Our Intelligent Enterprise strategy is resonating broadly and propelling strong adoption of our
suite in the cloud. Because of the strong cloud and overall business momentum, we have just
raised the 2018 outlook for the third time this year. Our business is getting more recurring in
nature. Now more than two-thirds comes from predictable revenue streams, up 3 percentage
points compared to just one year ago. We continue to see a healthy cloud gross margin
development, and we have had double-digit operating profit growth all three quarters this year.
Now, let me come to the highlights of the quarter. First, new cloud bookings were up 37%, a
significant sequential acceleration of growth. This was a strong result. Cloud revenues surged 41%
driven by high growth, high potential cloud solutions like S/4HANA Cloud and C/4HANA. We also
saw strong performance in our pay-as-you-go businesses within Ariba, Concur and Fieldglass, as
well as our digital platform, which all added an extra boost to cloud revenue.
Now to software. While we had strong software revenue in APJ and Greater China, customers in
the Americas and parts of EMEA were moving faster than expected to cloud and hybrid models.
We are capitalizing on this market trend with our expanded Intelligent Suite in the cloud and our
unique hybrid capabilities. In this context, let me reiterate and expand on what Bill said. We will
trade a software dollar for a cloud dollar any time simply because of the higher long-term value
that it brings us (14:21). And we will not artificially slow cloud growth just to optimize our P&L for
the short term. Cloud is where the long-term value is. And that's what we are managing for.
We are also proud to report double-digit cloud and software revenue growth for the second
quarter straight, ahead of our guidance at the start of the year. In addition, the combined order
entry of our new cloud and software license business was up 12%, growing ahead of total
revenue, which clearly illustrates our powerful overall business momentum. Support revenue wasvery resilient, growing 6%. This was the result of continued strong renewals, which underscore
the high stickiness of our support services with our customers.
Now to the third quarter regional results, starting with EMEA, where we had a solid performance
with cloud and software revenue increasing 5%. Cloud subscriptions and support revenue grew
by 40% with Germany and Russia being highlights. In addition, we had strong software revenue
growth in Russia, Italy and the Netherlands. We had a strong performance in the Americas region.
Our cloud and software revenue increased by 13%. Cloud subscriptions and support revenue
increased by 38% with a solid quarter in particular in the United States. Canada also had an
especially strong quarter in software revenue. In the APJ region, cloud and software revenue
grew by a stellar 17%. Cloud subscriptions and support revenue was truly exceptional and grew by
58% with Greater China and Japan being highlights. The software revenue, again Greater China,
Japan, as well as India and South Korea all had impressive quarters.
Now, briefly on the IFRS 15 impact, which as you know we adopted on January 1 this year. Our
reported operating profit in the quarter was positively impacted by €74 million through this
accounting change.
With that, let me come to profitability and gross margins. Gross margins in cloud overall and in
each of our three individual cloud business models were all up significantly year-over-year. The
strong top-line performance across our cloud portfolio allows us to realize economies of scale
while we also continue to drive operational efficiency. Specifically, our cloud margin again
expanded by 3 percentage points to 64%. The SaaS/PaaS gross margin increased by 4
percentage points to 60%. As we see investments into our converged cloud infrastructure as well
as the migration of our cloud solutions from third-party databases to HANA taper off, we are
poised to see further significant expansions over the course of 2019 as we have discussed in the
past. The Business Network gross margin again showed consistent acceleration in Q3, adding
another 3 percentage points to achieve a stellar 78%. Our Infrastructure as a Service business
also saw a significant gross margin improvement to 17%, which was an increase by 18 percentage
points. This shows that the increased scale and expanding renewal base in our HANA Enterprise
Cloud business is really starting to pay off nicely.
Now, let me move on to cloud and software profitability. As you all know, the rapidly growing
share of cloud has an adverse impact in the short term. In Q3, this adverse mix effect was 1.5
percentage points. In contrast, our cloud and software margin only declined by 90 basis points to
80.9%. Finally, our services gross margin was down by 2.5 percentage points this quarter to 21.9%.
We have increased our services workforce by 14%, partly through acquisitions, but also organically
to deliver on our very healthy backlog which we expect to expand even faster in our seasonally
strong Q4. With year-to-date revenue up 9% and a gross margin expansion of 50 basis points,
our Services business continues to thrive.
The combination of strong top line, strong cloud gross margin improvement and operational
discipline led again to significant operating profit growth of 11% in the quarter. We achieved all of
this while continuing to invest in our people and our portfolio, adding around 1,100 employees in
the quarter. As a result, our operating margin increased by 10 basis points in Q3 despite
headwind from the Callidus acquisition, a significant acceleration of our cloud business and the
strong services revenue performance. Year-to-date, our operating margin increased 50 basis
points.
On an IFRS basis, our operating profit decline of 6% was primarily driven by an increase in share-
based compensation expenses mainly caused by the higher share price in Q3. In addition, IFRSoperating profit in Q3 of last year was impacted by a favorable restructuring charge
development.
Now, let me turn to taxes and EPS. The IFRS effective tax rate decreased by 4.8 percentage
points to 23.8% in Q3. The non-IFRS tax rate decreased by even 5.4 percentage points to 23.7%.
The decreases in the effective tax rate mainly resulted from changes in the regional allocation of
income and the application of hyperinflation accounting in Venezuela. We now expect a full-year
2018 non-IFRS effective tax rate of 26.5% to 27.5%, so slightly down from the previous 27% to
28% range, while we confirm our outlook for the IFRS effective tax rate of 27% to 28%, where we
expect to reach the upper end of this range. IFRS earnings per share decreased by 1% to €0.82.
Non-IFRS earnings per share increased by 13% to €1.14. Similar to IFRS operating profit, our IFRS
earnings per share was impacted by higher share-based compensation expenses and a
favorable restructuring charge development in Q3 of last year.
Now to cash flow and capital expenditures. For the first nine months, our operating cash flow
decreased to €3.5 billion. This decline was mainly due to higher share-based compensation
payments as well as higher tax and insurance payments. Please also keep in mind that our cash
flow is affected by the currency headwind that we have faced year-to-date. These effects offset
SAP's positive business development and our lower day sales outstanding, which went down by 4
days to 68. Free cash flow for the first nine months declined as well due to the previously-
announced additional CapEx for 2018. We continue to expect 2018 CapEx lower than €1.6 billion
and a flattening CapEx development beyond.
Finally, as discussed before, we are raising our 2018 outlook due to the strong cloud business and
overall business momentum. At the same time, we have updated our currency expectations for
the impact on reported growth rates. For more details, please refer to our quarterly statement
published earlier today. And before closing, I would like to talk also about a few of our key
nonfinancial metrics.
First, in a global war for talent, more important than ever as Bill alluded to, our employees
continue to embrace our strategy and higher purpose. We are continually ranked among best
places to work in numerous geographies. Our employee retention is best in class in our industry
at 94.1%. Second, we are taking leadership in the tough questions on the responsible use of
technology by founding the AI Ethics Advisory Panel. And finally, with the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change issuing a dire report, SAP is doing its part to contribute to a decrease in CO2
emissions by reducing its Q3 greenhouse gas emissions from 80 kilotons to 65 kilotons year-
over-year. We currently run our cloud and all facilities on renewable energy only and aim to be
carbon neutral by 2025.
So, in summary, our accelerating cloud growth shows our strategic priorities are exactly on track
as we continue to take significant market share and grow revenue faster than our competitors.
We have the broadest portfolio and are the most geographically-diversified business in our
industry. The cloud top-line acceleration together with continued operational efficiency gains are
driving cloud gross margins up and our business model at the same time is becoming much more
predictable in nature just as we set out to do. All of this makes me extremely confident that we
will deliver on our raised 2018 outlook and our 2020 ambition.
Thank you very much, everybody, and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Operator, we can now start the Q&A session.Q&A
Operator
We'll take our first question from John King with Merrill Lynch.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Hello, everyone. Thanks for taking the questions. I've got two, please. The first one was
really on the – you commented already around the mix shift more towards cloud and clients
electing to take deals that might have been in licensing cloud today. I imagine that's going a little
bit product-by-product, so could you give us, maybe call out one or two products that are now a
cloud discussion that maybe a year ago would have been a license discussion? And are there any
metrics you can give us around let's say win rates that you see as you make that transition so that
you can give us some comfort that your win rates are stable or improving as those products go to
a cloud discussion?
The second one was on the – perhaps on the margin, Luka, for Q4. It does seem as though if I
back out the numbers at the midpoint of the guidance, you're implying quite a good year-on-year
margin improvement in Q4 whereas it feels as though the implied license is still relatively or
similar to Q3 down year-on-year. So perhaps you could explain any of the moving parts that might
support the margin or perhaps whether there is any conservatism in the revenue guidance, for
example. Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, John. I'll start off and then pass it over to Luka. If you look at S/4HANA, our digital
supply chain, analytics, analytics is all moving to the cloud. These are examples of solutions that
customers are more and more preferring to consume from the cloud. Consumer-grade user
experience, ease of consumption, continuous innovation cycle, less support required, all good
attributes of customers' adoption of cloud and we're leaning into that because we're building a
company of generations, not the next three months.
And as it relates to the core business, I do want to be clear. The core license business and the
thesis in the original forecast that Luka and I gave for the full year is completely intact. So, on a
full-year basis, what we said we would do at the beginning of the year including the underlying
software and software-related services assumptions in that number is intact. And the cloud is just
accelerating at a rate again higher than any other application software company on the planet.
Luka will give you a little bit of a feel for the margins going forward. Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And just to complement also what Bill has said before, when you take a look at areas where
core licenses are still growing, it's exactly in S/4HANA where we have triple digit growth in the
cloud but still quite sizable growth in on-premise, and it's in the adjacent area of digital supply
chain management. All the other categories of our portfolio go full steam ahead to the cloud, as
they should, and which is good for SAP because there we win against our competition and
actually our win rates across all of the portfolio elements over the course of the past two quarters
actually have been increasing.
In terms of the margin development, look, it's important to note that we give our guidance on the
bottom line on absolute operating profit. And I can tell you two things that I'm extremelyconfident about. First of all, that we will hit at the minimum this current guidance that we have
adapted upwards for 3 times now as well, which is for between 9.5% and 11% growth.
Secondly, that we will do so by continuing to expand margin for the company. Now, by how much
this will occur, this is fully a question of the mix and that mix as we have said is not entirely
predictable, so you can take our commitment on the absolute operating profit development and
on the margin rates. We will have to see how the composition between software and cloud
unfolds. But suffice it to say that I think Bill and I have been in this role for CEO and CFOs now for
more than four years, and I think we have always been hitting or overdelivering on the guidance
metrics that we have set.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And in my case, nine years and counting, and what's interesting on this move to the cloud, I
remember then we didn't have a CRM product in the cloud. And now we have a CRM solution
called C/4HANA that's growing in triple digits and winning accounts all over the map and this is
part of the growth that you're going to see in the cloud. You're going to see C/4HANA in the
front office, S/4HANA the core, and everything in between move to the cloud while at the same
time there's plenty of hybrid cloud opportunities out there that will hold the core business ever-
solid and the support is like 99% retention, and the software and related services is growing in
double digits.
So, I wouldn't at all be concerned with any structural change to the core license business. I would
be celebrating with champagne everywhere out there that the cloud is soaring, and wouldn't you
be disappointed if the cloud was flat and the core was rock solid. You'd probably be worried
about the future, right? This is the perfect scenario.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Okay. We'll take a question from `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. with UBS.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thank you and good afternoon. Just one on S/4. In terms of the growth in customers there, it's
been fairly steady outside of the fourth quarter, at least about 500, 600 a quarter. Can you talk
about that and whether you expect an acceleration? I think, Luka, the target was to get to 50% of
customers by 2020. And also, if I look at the number of live customers, I think one of your
representative at DSAG yesterday said they were 2,100. I just had a quick look back at mySAP
when you launched that. I think after two and a half years they were at 4,000 live customers and
you are now three and a half years about 2,000, so maybe comment on that. And then just
secondly, Luka, on the hiring, I think you said at the start of the year the number of headcounts
that you would add would be roughly similar to last year. If I take out Callidus you've already
added 4,500. Should we assume that there'll be very little hiring in Q4? Thank you.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Okay. Hello, Michael. This is Bernd. Happy to answer your questions on S/4. First of all, I want to
repeat the big message that S/4HANA is a big growth driver, was in the past, and was specifically
as well in Q3 with triple-digit growth in the cloud, and as well still significant growth in the on-prem10,000. So just to give you an order of magnitude, that product is selling, is rocking, and is a
massive growth driver.
Now, to your question on specifically live customers, we have been always reporting customers
who are live or who have a project, which are in process of going live where we have a precise
go-live date. I can report back now today that we have passed the number of 5,000 already,
while you were referring to 4,000. So, we have more than 5,000 customers who are live or who
have a project plan with our service organization or one of our partners with an active known go-
live date.
The number which DSAG was reporting to was a number they have evaluated in a survey and we
were confirming it that globally in mid of 2018, we have 2,100 and something live customers, but
they have not been counting the customers who are in process of going live, and the number is
increasing every day. So, I hope this helps to clarify the picture and that as well S/4HANA is a
stellar growth driver.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And maybe to expand on the question around head count, the statement from the
beginning of the year that we will hire roughly the same amount of people is generally true with
one exception, and that one exception is our services organization. You have seen that we have
seen a constant acceleration of our business performance in services, and we have seen that
also the bookings performance in 2018 has been truly remarkable and has been up in,
dependent on the quarter, high single digits or even double digits. So, we have to make room for
that, and that's why we have hired in services for more people than what has originally been
contemplated, including in Q3 where for example we have added roughly 500 people for our
services business alone. So in that, if you back that out, and that will probably be a number in the
higher triple-digit numbers of people that we will add in services more than originally expected in
the rest of the organization, the hiring numbers will closely resemble what we have done in the
previous year.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citi Investment Research (Europe) `
Hi. Thank you. A question for Bill, a question for Luka. Question for Bill, on the macro environment,
it looks like U.S. business was very strong in the quarter. Europe not quite as strong. You
highlighted a few geographies. Could you help us understand what you're seeing? I think there's
quite a few things. You've got the tax cuts in the U.S. that have driven demand this year that I think
there's some concern about how that plays into next year and then some mixed macro signals in
Europe. And then, Luka, on the license performance, I'm wondering if you're still comfortable
given that trajectory that you can keep the support revenue growing at the rate it's been growing
here recently. Thank you.A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Walter, thank you very much for your question. I want to be clear. Every single market out there
from the Asian market if you look at the ASEAN region, what's happening in places like Vietnam,
it's unbelievable. China, China is growing faster at SAP than any of the other software companies
out there. The United States is rock solid, and of course keep in mind the United States has our
biggest cloud revenue base with many and in fact most of our cloud assets domicile in the United
States. It's doing extremely well.
And Europe, you'll have some spottiness in countries from one quarter to the other, but overall as
Luka said, I gave you the numbers, very solid. Middle East, very solid. So overall the global
scenario of growth at SAP is very well dispersed across the geographies and across the
industries. So, the health of the business is very, very solid and I'm not in any way concerned
about any theater in SAP living up to our high expectations.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And maybe just to quickly comment on the support performance, look, we see all of the
drivers that are behind our mid-term ambitions still in force. We have planned as you know for a
couple of years now for a low to mid-single-digit decline in licenses. In the past three years we
have been doing better than that. Our thesis as Bill has said for this year remains unchanged. So,
there is no reason to assume a different impact for support revenues going forward. But we have
always said that the market needs to accept or needs to expect a gentle decline in growth rates
of support revenues. That's just the natural outcome of the slowing growth in licenses, but you
can safely still assume positive support revenue growth all the way to the end of our midterm
ambition as always predicted.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Walter, one of the things that I would just also like to underscore with this global scenario, I
basically have talked a lot about Asia and the fact that the Asia Pacific region is soaring for SAP
including China. You have to look at the hyperscalers as well. Look at Alibaba. We are the partner
of choice. Look at in the United States Google Cloud Platform, Amazon AWS, and of course our
great partner for more than four decades Microsoft and Azure. Every one of them is
standardizing on S/4HANA as the core system for these clouds. And when you think about
C/4HANA we're making incredible inroads by having that adopted in these clouds as well. And in
fact, Microsoft, Azure just announced not S/4HANA but also Concur in Azure. So, we are having a
very good multidimensional cloud strategy where SAP can do it all for you. We can work with the
hyperscalers to collaborate on integrated solutions for a given customer. And this is giving us
extreme tailwind because the SIs are also rallying around this now as they have to have new and
innovative solutions in the cloud to keep their practices growing. So, the force multiplier here is
that SAP's strategy is just the best one.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citi Investment Research (Europe) `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas (UK) with Exane Paribas.
Q - `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas (UK) `
Yes. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Actually, just to follow up on Bill's comments there
regarding the relationships with AWS and Azure and GCP, Ali Cloud, was that partially what
helped drive the improvement in profitability of your Infrastructure as a Service business? And
more generally I guess, how are those relationships developing? And how are customers
evaluating how they move to S/4HANA? Is there maybe a pause actually in the near term as they
think about moving onto those platforms and that decision is a bit more complex than going on-
premise or even in HEC? So, any additional color you can provide about how those partnerships
are potentially helping your margins now and in the future and how customers are evaluating
those offerings versus more traditional upgrade processes. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Yeah. So let me quickly comment on both and then everybody please feel free to give additional
commentary. So first of all, the growth in our Infrastructure as a Service margins was just a result
of improved operational efficiency in our HANA Enterprise Cloud business and the larger scale
that we have reached by now and the larger revenue base and the larger renewal base. What
helps in the collaboration with the hyperscalers is we don't have to expand so dramatically on
CapEx going forward. That's where the advantage age comes from and it helps us therefore on
the free cash flow side going forward with a flattening CapEx need. But on the profitability, it was
really our own developed efficiency gains and effectiveness gains.
And in terms of the growth trajectory on S/4HANA, actually the collaboration with hyperscalers
accelerates our capabilities in order to help our customers to migrate to S/4 because they have
access to a very efficient compute infrastructure and they have access to a scalable infrastructure
in particular, and therefore it is actually an accelerator of our migration move rather than a reason
to pause or rethink anything.
Thank you.
Q - `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas (UK) `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Phil Winslow with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. A question here to Bill. It's been a few months now since
you guys launched C/4HANA and obviously the Open Data Initiative is only about a month old. But
curious, just the feedback that you're getting from customers on the vision that you laid out andwondering if you could comment just about how you're thinking about the product set right now
with C/4HANA, especially sort of in the context of that partnership with Microsoft and Adobe.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Phil. It's really – it's been great friendships that developed some of these
market-making moves. There was a phone call to Shantanu. I woke him up at 4:30 in the morning
in Australia, and then that was just after I had a great conversation with Satya wherever he was in
the world and we basically said, look, we have the C/4HANA machine going at full speed. The
most important thing to the customer is connecting the demand and the supply signal to give a
seamless experience to 7.5 billion consumers worldwide. More than ever, CEOs of companies are
very concerned about meeting the high standards of like the British Standards Institute and
making sure you protect the privacy and the data of each of those consumers. And that is a really
serious issue and it's one where we were the first company certified in the world. Because, as
you know, Europe was way ahead of all the other regions of the world in dealing with privacy and
security.
So, we just talked about really building a partnership around an Open Data Initiative where we
jointly could collaborate with customers and let the customer know that it was their data and that
we would work in harmony across the value chain in our three companies to take the high ground
and set the tempo for the tech industry.
We announced this at Ignite in Orlando in the very recent past, as you know, Phil, and it was
extremely well received. And what you see now is the trust building. Obviously, with our brand,
we have Gigya with a couple of billion records of consumers out there that customers are serving.
We're number one in e-commerce. We're number one in the customer data cloud. We're number
one in incentive commission management and configure, price and quote and we're number one
in the integrated suite with ERP and supply chain.
So these assets were extremely attractive in Azure, and we were very happy to work with both
Satya and Shantanu really to put together a beautiful partnership because we have joined
customers that participate with all of our technologies and our solutions and we're very willing to
put those solutions in Microsoft Azure and put it in a hyperscale cloud environment or run it in the
SAP Cloud if that's what the customer wants. But I really do think the Open Data Initiative and this
trust that we're building with customers is an essential element of the 21st century relationship.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks, guys.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `Hi. Good afternoon and thanks for taking the question. Maybe just first of all as you look out to
next year, Luka, you have been very adamant that we should see margins inflecting in 2019. But
with this accelerating move towards cloud and potentially a move back towards high single digit
license declines and stronger cloud growth, are you still as confident that that can be achieved or
should we think about the operating profit growth being more driven by the top line rather than
by margin expansion?
And maybe just secondly to help us dig in a little bit on the license mix and how that shift
happens, could you give us any more granularity around which parts of the license portfolio are in
areas like BI and analytics, CRM and HCM where we would expect a more rapid cloud move and
how much is more in S/4HANA supply chain where we would expect to stay on-premise and
license driven in the future? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Let me take that. First of all, I never said that margins should inflect in 2019. I said that they
should inflect in 2018 and that's what they have done so far with the 50-basis-points
improvement, so we continue to expect an increase in margins for 2018 already.
And for 2019, our ambition stays intact to go for, as we have said in the past, continuous and
consistent margin expansion. So, you should not expect that there is a huge hockey stick that is
building up here, but that we will have a nice and gentle progression and continued progress on
the margin front because, again, that mix shift effect is, to a certain extent, already baked into our
projections.
And in terms of the licenses, as I've said, I mean, the two areas in license that are growing and
that are, therefore, becoming a growing proportion of the license mix is S/4HANA's digital core
and digital supply chain management. Those two solution areas in aggregate already today
account for almost half of our license revenue. And therefore, the rest is basically a little bit more
than half of it, but is basically migrating to the cloud.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Thank you very much.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
If I may, just to make one point, Adam, I think it's really important that we learn the lessons from
companies that didn't change and didn't lean into new market opportunities and chose stock
buybacks and cutting costs and laying people off as their chief innovation strategy. That's not SAP.
Our chief innovation strategy is growth. We're a growth company, and we're going to grow in the
cloud, and we're going to be the number one enterprise application software company in the
cloud for decades to come. So, that's a very important imperative. At the same time, we're going
to intelligently manage the expense base in the company and we have plenty of flexibility with
our workforce, a highly competent, young, dynamic workforce, to be agile in where we put
people and how we maximize the revenue per employee. And we're going to do a lot of that. So,
that's a very important thing where we can work with the absolute operating margin rate.So, you'll see us sell more. We'll spend our money wisely, but we're going to grow in the cloud.
And your comment about absolute operating income is well-taken by me personally. There once
was a time where we actually had a management here shooting for a particular margin rate and
let the innovation story at the doorstep. You won't see that happen under this leadership team.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. The next question, please.
Operator
We'll take our question from `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you very much. I was wondering, Luka, if you can comment around sort of the
flexibility you have on the different levers of the margin, especially given the possibility of a much
more volatile license as you kind of hit the tail end of the transition. Obviously, gross margin has
been a big lever right now and is expected to continue, but how much flexibility do you have on
the sort of OpEx discipline particularly given, Bill, your comment that you're still very focused on
growth?
And the second question I had was on the cloud portfolio. Obviously, the cloud growth is very
impressive. Can you just give us maybe a bit more detail on sort of the broader product portfolio,
the sort of different growth rates and just kind of how sustainable this is, and perhaps where you
see the kind of biggest opportunities in and outside sort of the installed base? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I'll handle the flexibility question, and then on the growth topic, please, maybe also Rob can
weigh in because a lot of the cloud assets, and Bernd, are in their respective camps.
So, in terms of the flexibility, look, from a gross margin perspective, the good news is that we
have a growing predictability of our overall revenue. So, as cloud and as support becomes a
larger share of our total revenues, our planning base is becoming better and better. And
therefore, while our stickiness in our business grows and, therefore, also short-term volatility is
reduced, we have a very good planning basis for our operating expenditures.
When you take a look at that, you will see already that in 2018, we are making great progress on
the sales and marketing cost ratio. That's due to a strong focus on the one hand on operational
simplification and harmonization, but to the other extent as well, it's already a starting point of a
positive feature of the cloud business that the more our renewal base in the cloud improves, we
actually lower the extra effort from a sales and marketing perspective that we need to spend for
every extra dollar of cloud revenue. So, this is a very positive feature, which already gives us quite
a nice leverage.
And all the rest, of course, we have a great deal of optionality. When we had the last big
downturn in the economy in 2008 and 2009, in a situation which we were much more dependent
on license revenues than today, we were able to react very quickly and accommodate a lower
cost base. You can assume safely that this capability is still with us, but at the same time, our
resilience from a top-line perspective has materially increased, so I'm not worried in this respect
at all. But as long as the demand signals are all very positive, as Bill has said, we will continue to
do what is right for the company to develop a sustainable, long-term growth engine, which SAPA - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And I wanted to build on Luka's thoughtful commentary and also thank you for such a qualified
question. It's really nice to hear the way you're thinking about the business. We're thinking about it
like you're thinking about it.
Just to give you some color; analytics, triple digit in the cloud; C/4HANA steep, steep triple digit
in the cloud. Leonardo, we have obviously Leonardo embedded into all of our applications with
machine learning, AI, IoT, and blockchain.
When you think about machine learning with SAP's conversational AI, just one example, we have
the fastest, easiest and most accurate enterprise-grade bot platform on the market. And with
intelligent Robotic Process Automation, our customers will be able to achieve the high automation
level necessary to become intelligent enterprises. So, Leonardo is soaring in the value
proposition.
S/4HANA, Bernd covered that, growing fantastically. And what I love about S/4HANA, for
everybody that wants to make sure that core is ever steady, that's the heartland of the core
because many of the big companies will continue to run S/4HANA in our cloud or a hyperscale
cloud, and in many cases, that will be recognized as license revenue in the traditional sense with a
maintenance contract that supports it. So, we'll be able to recognize that revenue. And that kind
of solution will hold the core business steady and you won't see too much rockiness in that even
as we soar in the cloud. Triple-digit growth in the SAP Cloud Platform and other matters.
I want to make one comment on the Business Networks, because it's fair that Concur, Ariba,
Fieldglass, all these businesses get a lot of credit. Fieldglass is growing in triple digits. It's a
runaway success story. Ariba, at its size and scale, usually have a 30% growth rate, thereabouts,
in each of the quarters; similar story with Concur. All the M&A moves that we made with Hybris, as
an example, or Gigya or Callidus, all growing beautifully.
So, it's really nice about the M&A moves that SAP has done. We bought the best assets, and after
we bought those assets, we invested in them and grew them organically and they became a
centerpiece of our culture. So, we know how to do that, and that has really been a wellspring of
opportunity for our cloud business as well. So, that's a little bit of color on the cloud.
And, Mohammed, we'll maintain the core ever steady, ever solid. We'll spend the money wisely
on head count and other things to make sure that the rate's in good shape. But we're going to
continue to grow the company in the cloud and make all the investors very proud of the
management team and our foresight on what's ahead of us. We want to lead. We want to win.
We want to be the best.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question, please.
OperatorOur next question comes from `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. with Credit Suisse.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Great. Thanks very much for taking my question. It's just a clarification on C/4, actually. You've
given the metric in the statement of 50% growth. That's obviously very impressive. But do we
assume that that includes gliders (54:24) such that the organic growth is only 20%? And if that's
the right calculation, it's growing below the overall average for the cloud. How should we view
that metric?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I can clarify this. What you seem to be referring to is the total segment revenue in our
Customer Experience segment. You need to note that this includes legacy on-premise revenues,
which are in decline in this business area. If you take a look at purely on the C/4HANA cloud
subscription revenue, then that's up more than 200%. That hopefully clarifies it.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
All right. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc with JPMorgan.
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. Thank you. Just quickly on the deal mix for S/4, you had 50% net new. That was kind of high.
Does your pipeline suggest that trend to continue, or would it shift back to kind of the two-thirds
mix of the installed base? And then, how do you expect that installed base penetration to trend? I
know just following up on `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd.'s question, he mentioned the – do you expect 50% by
2020?
And then, just quick second question, a logistics one. Can you, please, give us the like-for-like
margin year-to-date excluding Callidus, ex-FS (55:51) and excluding IFRS 15?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
So, first of all, on the S/4 questions, the penetration of net new versus installed base, I think, in
general, S/4HANA in the cloud is taking off. We can assume that there will be a growing
proportion of net new customers. However, in Q4, I would personally bet a little bit against that
because in Q4, we always have a large share of transformational deals that are lining up and
those tend to be installed base conversions. So, I would not be astonished if the share in Q4
would be slightly different and more weighted towards installed base than net new.
But in general, I think we can assume that net new will become a growing proportion, which is
very, very positive. And we continue to expect that we have roughly 30,000 customers on classic
ECC out there, and we continue to expect that roughly half of them should have bought into
S/4HANA by the year 2020.And in terms of the like-for-like margin with puts and takes and everything considered, I think that
would point to a slight decline of roughly 60 basis points.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
Maybe, Stacy (57:24)...
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
And was that for year-to-date?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
No. No, it was for Q3. I thought you were asking for Q3. If you're talking about year-to-date, it's
very slightly negative.
Q - `Stacy Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thanks.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head-Products & Innovation `
And maybe, Stacy, as just a comment, what Luka said, which underpins the effects coming from
customers and, as well, the statement from Bill that the core is ever steady. There was a survey
published by the German-speaking user group about relevance of a product in our portfolio and
S/4 scored the highest relevance and it was 78% of the survey respondents said that there is a
very high degree of relevance when it comes to digital transformation.
So, maybe this is linked as well to the question of customers who are in process of going live and
customers which we have sold the product to because digital transformation means it is not just
adopting new technology and new software, it means reinventing the business processes that
customers have implemented sometimes for one or two decades. And I think this underlying
effect is important to understand and this is what the value driver is behind the success.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Very good. Thank you. Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Alex Tout, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG with Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Alex Tout, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for squeezing me in. The cloud bookings' growth rate was very strong, and
also I know that typically your bookings are a little bit below the corresponding revenue rate just
given the dynamic with the Business Network. So, does this gives you quite a lot of confidence
going into 2019 that the 30% organic growth rate in cloud is looking pretty safe?
And then, just on the maintenance retention rates that have improved, I think Bill mentioned 99%
retention. Would you read anything into this in terms of maybe installed base customers readying
themselves for S/4 getting current on maintenance where, in some cases, maybe they weren't?
Would that be an interpretation that you would give or something else? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. So, first of all, on the new cloud booking growth rates, we're excited about it and it
absolutely puts us perfectly in line with not only our 2019 targets but actually also our 2020
ambition, because that's the nice thing about the cloud business model with what we win today,
we already have, not only for next year but even for in two years, a very good level of visibility. So,
absolutely, we are excited about our current momentum in new cloud bookings.
Secondly, in terms of the retention rates, I think I would simply read into this that customers get
great value from our support offerings that we work very closely with our customers to help them
understand the value from innovation that they get, be it on the classic systems as well as on the
opportunity to upgrade to S/4HANA.
So, I see this, to a certain extent, decoupled from any consideration around upgrade cycles, but
simply a reflection that we care about our customers and that the support services that we offer
are absolutely best-in-class in the industry and that has driven increased customer satisfaction,
which you can also read from the very low level of sales allowances that we had to book this year,
which is at an all-time low, which reflects the same kind of phenomenon.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay.
Q - `Alex Tout, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
The next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. with Redburn.
Q - `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you very much for taking the question. Luka, when you were speaking during your
prepared remarks, you seemed to suggest that the benefits from the Converged Cloud
infrastructure migration, some of the SaaS solutions looking over to that, that was not really seen
in the third quarter but yet that was to come – was that to come in the fourth quarter this year or
is that really something that now competes through in the early part of next year? And if you
could put some quantification around that, that would be much appreciated. I think in the past,
you've talked about north of $100 million of cost savings from doing that. So, was there anything
in Q3 on how much do we think Q4 in early next year?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
What we see in 2018 is that we can already heavily deemphasize incremental investments into
our legacy cloud infrastructures. And where we had duplicated infrastructures in the past, we still
have to rejuvenate some of the hardware on the legacy platforms while starting to migrate
customers over to the new Cloud Platform based on HANA as the database. And those
investments are starting to taper off, but that has really not had a significant effect, yet. Most of
the efficiency gains that we have seen so far have come from general scale increases.What we will see next year is the first half of those, let's say, gains from the technology platform
convergence and Converged Cloud, which I had quantified as a mid-double-digit million-euro
effect. For the full effect, we need to utilize the harmonization of the infrastructure to then move
to increased automation, as well as centralization of some of our cloud delivery support. And that
will kick in beginning with the second half of 2019 and then with full scale going into 2020. That's
why we expect a step change of our cloud delivery margins in 2019 and then a continued
progress going into 2020 and beyond. I hope this clarifies broadly.
Q - `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Thanks very much. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. And now, let's take the final question on today's call.
Operator
Our final question comes from `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks so much and that was actually one of my questions, so I'll ask the last one really for Bill.
Just on the ODI, congratulations on that. It seem to really play into the thesis of digital end-to-end
process sort of reimagination. And I just wondered, what are the milestones that you would have
us look for as we see that play out in the partnership? And I'm just curious, do you have a vision
that this could actually further accelerate the rate of cloud adoption from SAP? Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Ross, thank you very much, first of all, for your very nice comments. It really is a special
opportunity. Companies out there today, they want a digital end-to-end view of their relationship
with their consumer. So, our job is to help our customers help their customers. And that begins
with the demand signal that's being sent. That begins with understanding the data and how it's
being utilized across all channels. Many of the companies we work with, for example, are selling
their products through wholesalers or retailers or online, where it's a direct-to-consumer model.
You have to be highly thoughtful about the data because that consumer expects their data to be
protected. They expect their privacy rights to be honored. They'll only abide by some of the
offers that you make if they opt in, as an example. And that data then needs to be followed
through the entire cycle of the customer relationship.
Ultimately, the companies we work with want to have serious knowledge on the consumer. That
knowledge is in the SAP system. The data is in the SAP system. We know the history that that
customer has had. We know if they pay their bills, if they don't pay their bills. We know what
products they did or didn't buy. We know through predictive analytics and the algorithms with
Leonardo what they're likely to want based upon their prior history and behaviors.
All this data then coalesces into an offer and then a transaction is determined. Once that
transaction is determined, you've got to get the right product at the right price to the right place
in the right form factor that the customer wants. And more and more, that customer is on the
move. So, geospatial capabilities of HANA has become more and more important to SAP, of
course, but also to our customers and our partners.And if you look at it from Microsoft's point of view, they're keen to have SAP in the Azure cloud
because it makes their offering enterprise great. It really takes them from the knowledge worker
space into the enterprise business space with Azure. If you look at it from Adobe's perspective,
instead of competing with SAP and having that be their mission in life, well, maybe there might
just be marketing opportunities that the customer sees Adobe fitting very nicely even while they
see the virtue of C/4HANA and the end-to-end value chain of SAP.
So, we basically, as three CEOs said, let's just do the right thing for the customer. Let's let them
have their data. Let's let them see their consumers across the value chain and let's work together
in good faith. So far, there's been many new customers that have entered into the pipelines of all
three companies, so it's a virtuous cycle for all three companies.
Ultimately, the customer has to win, and I think in the case of Shantanu, Satya and myself, you
have three CEOs who believe that the customer has to win. So, we'll have more data. It's a young
initiative, but we're already looking at top 25 customers. We're actually working on things as
CEOs in a highly collaborative way. We have relationship plans that we're sharing with our teams
in the field. So, I'm very excited about what's going on with Microsoft and Adobe, and I really
believe this is an initiative that will set the tempo for the rest of the IT industry to have to deal
with.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks a lot. This concludes our Q3 Earnings Call for today. Thank you all for joining. We hope to
see you in New York on February 7 next year. Thanks a lot and goodbye.
Operator
Once again, ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. We appreciate your
participation today.