Q2 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
The first question is from `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities of Evercore. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities ``Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. At the BMW Group, we have clear targets, and we everyone. It's Arndt from Evercore. `First, we are expanding our joint venture with BBA. We will increase our capacity to 520,000ly, you mentioned this morning positive
mix and pricing expectations for the second half this year. Could you quantify your expectations in
terms of margin support for the second half? That would be very helpful.
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target secondly, also on earnings for H2, concerning the adverse China pricing effect related to
tariff changes, is it fair to assume some €300 million negative `effects, the revenues were up 2.4%. also in the second half this
year?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target then more strategically for `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management with Aston Martin and Volvo Cars aiming for IPOs
and Daimler openly flirting within AMG and F1 float, is there anything within BMW that you could
consider as potentially carving out of the current group structure; the most obvious opportunity
would, of course, be Rolls-Royce? `Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO., Arndt. We start first with `Nicolas, please go ahead. and then Harald. `Nicolas, please go ahead., please.
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Arndt, referring to your two questions – positive mix and pricing for the second half of the 2018, I
would answer this question as follows. `First, we are expanding our joint venture with BBA. We will increase our capacity to 520,000 of all, we commit and stick to our guidance for the full
year, 8% to 10%, in the Automotive segment. `Second, we have agreed to a 50/50 joint venture with Chinese manufacturer, Great Wall Motor, we will have on one hand side is positive
mix and pricing effect coming from new model launches as already mentioned on one hand side.
On the other hand side and this was your second question, we have some negative impacts from
tariff changes between the U.S. and China. Is it exactly €300 million, probably slightly lower. Why?
Because we have, as you've probably have already seen, we have increased prices in China for
the X models, which we import from U.S. to China by between 4% and 7% two or three days ago.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target Arndt, good afternoon. Coming back to your question on the potential carving out of Rolls-
Royce, the answer is definitely not – definitely not. We are enjoying the success of Rolls-Royce. I
mean Rolls-Royce said it's 13% growth on sales in the first half of 2018. We have a high order
intake for the new Cullinan, the Phantom – the new Phantom, which is on the market since January
this year is well-received, but we enjoy the success at Rolls-Royce, but there's definitely no plan
at all to carve it out.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Institutional Equities `
Okay, that's clear. I didn't want to offend you at all.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target both cars contribute in a significant way to the positive profit development.
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target, finally, on this one as Arndt, we clearly enjoy our brands – with MINI, with Rolls-Royce and
BMW and BMW Motorrad as being a pure premium manufacturer and deliverer, so Rolls-Royce is
an integral part of that.
A - Unverified ParticipantSo, thank you very much gentlemen. ``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO. Arndt for your important question and
we go ahead with the second question.
Operator
The next question is from `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd. of Exane. Please go ahead.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Hi everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. My first one is actually just going back to answer the
question on trade. When you talked about the net impact being less than €300 million, is that
accounting for the lower tariffs and the `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.an imports and the higher tariffs in the U.S.? `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target
can I confirm the full impact of that is now in your pre-tax profit guidance?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target my second question was on the X5 CKD production in Thailand that you mentioned on the
press call. Is this something that you're using already when you're importing into China and what
volume could it take at full production? Could it, for example, take all 40,000 (28:23) X5s
imported into China last year?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target finally, sorry, one more on China JV volumes and you mentioned a strong growth in the first
half, should we actually expect to see an acceleration in the second half as local production of the
X3 ramps and will JV profits follow that ramp-up? `Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
Okay, thank you very much Dominic. Yes, we start with `Nicolas, please go ahead. and then Harald and then again
`Nicolas, please go ahead.. Yes.
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Dominic, the amount I've mentioned is related to additional tariffs between U.S. and China.
Between `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. and U.S., we do not know at this point in time what is going to happen and
`therefore, on track to meet our declared goal of at least 140,000 vehicles this year. Other fullyelectric models are also ready to go. We will release the MINI Electric late next year; followed in we have not included anything in our outlook for 2018 for the second half. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target are we
expecting JV profit to develop positively with the launch of the X3? Definitely yes. The X3 will be
one of the, from a volume perspective and profit perspective – a strong contributor to our
business in China.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Dominic, on your question concerning the CKD plant in Thailand. Could it do 40,000 X5s? No,
definitely not. We are more in the range of 10,000 to 20,000 vehicles, but this is still a significant
portion of the volume we transport and import in China. So it's a lever, but it will not be the only
solution for us.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Great. ``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO., Dominic. Next question please?
Operator
The next question is from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG of HSBC. Your line is now open.Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yes, good afternoon, it's Horst from HSBC, thanks for taking my questions too. I want to come
back on this Automotive revenue guidance. You still target the slight increase for 2018 and given
the fact that we had this little shortfall in H1, I just want to know what initiatives have you taken to
increase sales momentum apart from the older model launches that you are about to do now?
Are there any additional steps that you do?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target then also then you talked about Automotive revenue growth in your speech. You were
mentioning the competitive environment. Has that become any tougher and then in that context,
maybe can you also comment on the price development by region, maybe in the course of Q2?
`Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
Yeah. `Nicolas, please go ahead., please?
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Horst, the revenue – the positive revenue development in the second half of 2018 will be mainly
driven, on one hand side, as you've already mentioned by volume but this volume development
includes also a positive mix development while the X3 is a strong contributor as the 8 Series,
which will be launched in a couple of weeks from now later in the year. The first new X5 hitting the
showrooms in the various markets around the world, so all those products will contribute to the
positive revenue development.
On pricing, I would and I think we have to focus on the three major regions. `First, we are expanding our joint venture with BBA. We will increase our capacity to 520,000 of all, U.S. pricing
remains competitive in the U.S. market. However, in particular as the U.S. market is becoming
more and more an SAV/SUV (32:17) market, we are positive that with the higher availability of X
models in the U.S. environment, we will see a further positive development.
`Second, we have agreed to a 50/50 joint venture with Chinese manufacturer, Great Wall Motor, in the `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.an arena, we have seen stable – a lot of stable development, maybe with
one exception that's U.K. where due to the Brexit discussion, the total market was developing in a
negative way.
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target China we had overall, in the first half till end of May, a very positive development in pricing.
June was – some mix scenarios, mainly due to the fact that those tariff changes have been
announced and we forecast that this is now stabilizing again and that we see a good momentum
in the coming months.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Sorry to come back to you, so the revenue growth (33:25) picked up already in Q3 or is it really
more focused on Q4?
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
The higher impact will be in Q4 as in particular the X5 is going to hit the dealerships in Q4.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
All right, but it will be positive also in Q3, right?
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `Horst, we not guiding `quarter, we were once again able to offset some of the high additional costs through efficiency-by-`quarter, we were once again able to offset some of the high additional costs through efficiency, so...
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
I understand. It's okay. I know that.
A - Unverified Participant
I have to interrupt now. ``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO., Horst. Next question, please?
Operator
The following question is from `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. Please go ahead, Ma'am.
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Yes, thank you, `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. Just a follow-on question on the CKDs. I just
wondered how quickly you can ramp production there. I know you said you couldn't obviously
completely (34:21) 10,000 to 40,000 from Thailand, but I know there's some other CKD
production in Asia as well. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target how profitable that can be? Is it worth doing or is it better to sort
out to stick with the U.S. production going into China?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target then more of a housekeeping question just in terms of `effects, the revenues were up 2.4%. and hedging, could you just
update us on where you are, how far hedged you are for 2019 at the moment? That would be
helpful. `Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Kristina, to answer your question on – to the depth of the ramp-up of construction of the CKD in
Thailand.
CKD in Thailand for the X5 was already existing for the current generation and will exist also for
the new X5, which would come to the market by the end of the year. So we did this one already
for two, three years, so it's not something new. That's why we are already in the race for sending
X5 from Thailand to China.
Capacity-wise, it's limited because CKD plants are not fully operational plants with huge capacity,
but it's clearly profitable for us. We only do things if we are clearly profitable and it helps the
supply of the X5, which is under high demand in China. So that's the way and the reason why we
do it, profitably clearly volume-limited but this is one action to counteract.
Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Understood.
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target, Kristina, maybe to add two hard points from my perspective. As we speak, we are investing
in our Spartanburg plant to increase capacity from 400,000 to 450,000, and our forecast is the
new X5 will be sold out in the remaining months of 2018 and 2019.
FX hedging, all main currencies in 2018 are fully hedged. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target as you referred to 2019, I would at
this point in time, say, well, probably 50% of our coverage for the main currencies in 2019 is in
place.Q - `Kristina Church, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
`Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO., Kristina. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the José Asumendi of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
`Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., José Asumendi, JPMorgan. Just two items, (36:54). If you could come back again a
little bit to guide us on maybe the raw mat headwind for the second half, if at all any? `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target the
capitalization of R&D ratio for the second half?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target then for Harald, thank you for additional disclosure on emissions on WLTP; I think very
impressive. You mentioned your thoughts a bit on the expected short penetration rates of 48-
volts? Because I don't think you need a lot of 48-volt on your portfolio to meet the CO2 emission
standards in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. for the coming two years. So can you maybe discuss a little bit the 48-volt
angle and what are your thoughts with regards to the remaining technologies you have in the
portfolio?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target maybe, final one, we love to hear your thoughts on autonomous driving, please? `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target in
terms of the mapping time, how long do you think we're going to be going through level 3 and
how long do you think it will take to basically – to hit level 4 and 5, in the light of the Italians just
implementing their technology?
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. José, thank you very much. We start with Harald. Yes?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
José, starting with the autonomous driving, it is (38:10) on level 3 and level 4 and level 5. As we
communicated we will try to achieve level 4 and level 5 with a smaller number of vehicles with our
BMW i Vision NEXT, yeah.
But it's – when you come by today, we start at level 1 and level 2 we will this year with the new X5,
and then later on next year and the year also even upgrade the level 2 with further functions,
which the customer would love in my perspective.
Then there's the next major step going to level 3 and another major step to level 4 and 5. So it is
a process; it will take some time definitely.
`Second, we have agreed to a 50/50 joint venture with Chinese manufacturer, Great Wall Motorly, security and safety comes first for us. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target thirdly, the regulation in the world is different,
yeah. So if you drive with level 4 or 5 in the city where you have pedestrians, bicyclists and a lot of
other traffic, it's much more complex than having it like a level 3 car on the highway. So this is an
ongoing continuous development, which is driven by safety and data security first.
`Second, we have agreed to a 50/50 joint venture with Chinese manufacturer, Great Wall Motorly, on your questions for the 48-volt technology. Let's first share the bigger picture. BMW
is having a clear strategy that we focus on flexible architectures and flexible plans where we canSeries plug-in hybrid for example or an X3 plug-in hybrid, and we will kind of have pure
combustion engines and the plug-in hybrids and the introduction of the 48-volt is the first entry
into the plug-in hybrid world and the hybrid world.
So we will see more 48-volt technologies in the future. In the range of BMW, it will definitely
increase but the customer has the clear choice at BMW if he would like to have a fully electric
vehicle like the i4 or if he would like or she would like to have a plug-in hybrid or an entry 48-volt
technology. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target that's why we believe we have the most flexible answer because who knows
what type and mix we'll sell in Russia in 2023 or in Italy in 2025.
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target with that flexibility build into the plans and the architecture, we can easily react, but we are
clearly on track to be a leader in e-mobility was 25 models by 2025;12 of them pure electric and
we are, by today, the market leader in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year..
A - Unverified Participant
So, José, and the last part of your question about possible raw material headwind will be
answered by `Nicolas, please go ahead..
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
José, you had two parts of your question first, R&D capitalization ratio, we forecast for the full
year, and lastly same level as in 2017. We had 39.7% in 2017, so it will be in this area in 2018 as well.
Raw material headwind, if we take raw material plus Fx, we continue to forecast for the full year,
three-digit negative impacts in the middle to higher area. In the second half of the year, most of
the negative impacts will come from currency and less from raw material.
Q - `José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
`Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO.. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Jürgen Pieper, Senior Advisor, Metzler Capital Markets of Metzler Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, Senior Advisor, Metzler Capital Markets
Yes. Hi, gentleman, thanks for taking my question. Its two questions, two small questions on WLTP.
It seems you managed the thing much better than your two main competitors here in Germany
and the questions on that – are you already seeing some gains on the consumer side; people
who are unhappy with the situation mainly of Volkswagen of not being able to deliver certain
products. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target are you already seeing some movements here to your favor?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target secondly, it looks like; if you look at the July figures in Germany, which were published today,
there was a jump in new car sales of 12%. It looks like there is already a pricing factor in that,
especially if you see that Volkswagen Group sales took a huge jump, that pricing plays a role. Do
you expect the second half caused by WLTP, the negative pricing `effects, the revenues were up 2.4%. mainly in Germany?
Thanks.Jürgen, I'll start with your question.
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, Senior Advisor, Metzler Capital Markets
Yeah.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
The first answer to – I don't want to comment on the competition, but we clearly took the task
head on, installing task force early on, we secured testing facilities and we are ready because we
need to deliver to our customers the vehicles on time. So my answer is clearly we are ready and
we are on time.
Do I see some gains on the customer side? It's little bit too early, but we see two things. The one
is from the principal behavior of a customer; the customers don't want to wait too long. If they
need to wait six or eight months, normally they swap even if they are loyal to the brand. So there
are chances for us definitely with this one because it makes a huge difference if you have a
delivery time by three months or by 12 months. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target that's...
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, Senior Advisor, Metzler Capital Markets
Okay.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
...in many places in the world and in Germany, it's the same situation.
So there should be opportunities for us, but it's too early to say why and more in detail because
that starts on the 1st of September. The cost will be on the market with WLTP legally by the 1st of
September, so that's the situation. What you can see maybe that registrations figures are going
up with other companies, but that's the answer on this one.
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target the second one on the pricing, `Nicolas, please go ahead. will answer.
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Jürgen, I, of course, cannot comment pricing strategy of our competitors. What I can comment
what we are going to do based, on one hand side, on our strong product portfolio and on the
fact that we are able, as Harald just mentioned, to supply all our different cars of our portfolio, we
will maintain a very, very balanced approach between volume and pricing. We are a premium
manufacturer and profitability is clearly in our top priority in our strategy.
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, Senior Advisor, Metzler Capital Markets
Okay. Thanks.
A - Unverified Participant
Thanks very much. Jürgen. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG of UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG ``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions., operator. `Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. At the BMW Group, we have clear targets, and we, everybody. Two questions please for me. The first one,
you signed a big deal with CATL for battery supply. They're going to build a plant in Germany. I'm
just wondering what moved the needle for CATL as opposed to the Korean suppliers because
CATL, at least for the time being, it's not necessarily seen as quite on par in terms of the
technology compared to LG and Samsung SDI, but I'm very happy to hear your view there. Is it
just the proximity to the German plants that you have that made you go with CATL. Is Poland or
Hungary, which are the locations of LG and Samsung in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year., is that too far away? Do you think
you have a better handle on CATL than you would have on the Koreans...
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yes.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
... but what's driving that decision? That's basically my first question.
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target my second question relates to the new capacity or planning and now in Hungary, you're
doing this or close to peak levels for the `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.an car market. What makes you confident that
now is the right time in spite of all the other high investment needs for the megatrends to put
down €1 billion (46:56) for an additional capacity in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.? `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target can you already give us a hint on
started production and the models that you're going to produce there? `Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO., Patrick. Both questions will be answered by Harald.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Patrick, the first point on the battery suppliers, first of all, we are in the happy situation to have
two strong partners, this is the CATL and Samsung as you know. We receive sales from both of
them.
CATL was our partner in China because if you're selling electric vehicles in China, you need a local
partner and we were developing together and they were coming very competitive also with new
technologies and as we also are having now (47:46) all the plants in Germany for electric vehicles,
we needed a partner here as well. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target that's why CATL was definitely on the way, saying, we
need a plant in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. and their decision was to go to Germany, in Turin.
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target we appreciate that one because it's lower logistics costs then for us and it's closer to the
German vehicle plants. But the decision was finally by CATL and we get sales from both suppliers,
from Samsung and CATL in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. and that will continue. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target for me it's nothing better than
competition and driven by quality and technology leadership. That's under sale production. The
capacity in the new plant in Hungary is close to peak levels in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.. The question we believe in
growth in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year., definitely we believe in growth at BMW.
We see further potentials and that's why we would like to invest on time into additional capacity
because we see, for example, take one segment which is growing very much in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year., it's the
X1, X2 segment and the small SUVs. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target as we are now entering with the X2 this year, the first
time in the market with a smaller SUV or a second SUV in this segment, they are definitely also
new chances. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target that that trend continues. So that's why we have built and decided on a plant in
Hungary.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG ``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions..
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target the other final one is definitely also that we see growth with electric vehicles in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.
and we need to prepare for this one on time as well.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Okay.
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO., Patrick. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from Harald Hendrikse of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Thanks, guys. Thanks so much for taking my questions; two quick questions really. One, just from
the call this morning, I was surprised just how sharp the decline in German deal market share was
in May; I think you said 61 to probably...
A - Unverified Participant
This is a very bad connection. Could you repeat?
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yeah.
A - Unverified Participant
It's about the diesel oil?
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yeah. That's right. Sorry, can you hear me now? Hello. Can you hear me better now?
A - Unverified Participant
Okay, yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Okay, sorry. I was just on the secondary phone. So sorry, two questions, one on the `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. – just
overall `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.an sales situation. The premium brands, not just yourself but all the premium
brands have in July shown very, very weak market shares, so I'm just wondering what that's all
about?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target then secondly, this morning obviously you highlighted that your May diesel sales have
dropped from 61% to 47% which in my mind is a much, much sharper decline than what you were
talking about last year and I'm just wondering whether those two situations are related?`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target then secondly on CO2, I think the first to give us a number for your new CO2 numbers on
WLTP going from 122 gram per kilometer to 128 gram per kilometer. After what Volkswagen's
CEO told us yesterday and what a burden it would be to get to the right levels for 2021, can you
talk your plan in a bit more detail and whether you still have the level of confidence that you can
get to the 101 gram for kilometer for that year?
Q - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Okay. Yes. A little bit difficult to understand but I will try to answer what we understood here. The
one question was decline on the market share of diesel as far as I understood it in Germany and
`Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. and May 2017 to compare to May 2018.
To repeat those numbers for BMW in Germany, we had in May 2017 a percentage of 61% of our
sales was diesel, this declined to 47% in May 2018; from 61% to 47%. If you look at the `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.an
level, it declined from nearly 70% to 58% on the `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.an level. On worldwide, it was from 35%
to 31%, so you can see a decline in the diesel from last year to this year.
But if I look at the order intake in June and July for the diesel engine, it's definitely stabilizing. It
was on a higher volume already in June and July and that will remain what it happens in the
second half of 2017, but we see a stabilization on diesel order intake.
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target there was a question on `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. weak market share in July that I understood that `Nicolas, please go ahead. will
answer in a minute. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target the second one...
(52:30)
... which is on the WLTP numbers higher than NEDC in terms of CO2. `First, we are expanding our joint venture with BBA. We will increase our capacity to 520,000 of all, the WLTP testing
is much more closer to the reality. That's why you see that we have higher values compared to
the NEDC, which was the previous `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year.an test cycle. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target, from 1st of September onwards, we
need to publish those WLTP numbers. That's why you see that change. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target we're very open and
transparent on this one.
But the key point is, as I mentioned before, we can offer already WLGT cars by the 1st of
September and we have a huge chance, in my perspective, to be ahead of the game here but it
goes hand in hand. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target we are on track for the 2022 targets. But what does it mean? It includes
that you can see definitely a significant increase also by electric vehicles, because you see a
reduction by diesel engines and that's why we target for example this year and we achieved it in
the first six months, a 40% percent growth of our electric vehicle sales.
A - Unverified Participant
Okay. ``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO.. The last part was about the `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. market share in July, `Nicolas, please go ahead.?
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yeah, Harald, maybe to end on Harald's last point. We've seen the share of electric powered cars
in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year. going up in the first six months from 5.1% to 6.3%, so a really good momentum.
For `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year., we continue to forecast for the full year a low single-digit growth. We are, including
July on track, to achieve this target. The most competitive market is, as I've already mentioned,
the U.K. where we have seen an ongoing difficult development in the last couple of weeks;
otherwise we are very well on track.
A - Unverified Participant``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO., `Nicolas, please go ahead.. So we have five minutes to 3:00. We have time for one more
question.
Operator
`Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.. The next question is from Philippe Houchois of Jefferies.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yes, good afternoon, thank you. Two questions quickly on my side. I must admit, every `quarter, we were once again able to offset some of the high additional costs through efficiency,
I'm a bit surprised by the resilience of your performance in software services with particularly
good return on assets. I'm just trying to understand because spreads – financing spreads
shouldn't be helpful anymore at this stage, so I'm just trying to understand are we kind of
misunderstanding the impact of businesses like Alphabet, which contribute to your margins or
have you been possibly a bit heavy-handed on provisioning on result that you risk diesel in
particular and your position that you're reversing some of these provisions, so I'd love to
understand a bit better why you have said – which is good news, but why you have such a good
resilience in the Financial Services side?
`And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target then the other question is – I appreciate it's very long-term, but you are the first-mover really
in securing the ability to buy out your JV partner in China. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target I'm just wondering it's several years
out, but is there already a framework to value that business that gives you an ability to plan how
much that might cost and you probably financially is strong enough to do that acquisition anyway.
I'm just wondering are you starting from scratch having to negotiate or is there already kind of an
agreement on the value of those JVs that enable you to confidently contemplating that
purchase?
A - Unverified Participant
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO.. `Nicolas, please go ahead.?
A - ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Maybe, Philippe, first of all, Financial Services, we are definitely on track to achieve our full year
target within our Financial Services segment for the full year. We have, I think, very, very solid
proactive risk management for credit risks and derisks as we've said earlier. We have seen diesel
sales stabilizing in `Europe, America and Asia, we reported growth in the first half of the year., and `therefore, on track to meet our declared goal of at least 140,000 vehicles this year. Other fullyelectric models are also ready to go. We will release the MINI Electric late next year; followed in I'm optimistic that we will definitely stay on cost with
Financial Services.
That second question JV at China. We have a really very, very longstanding and very successful
partnership with Brilliance Automotive in China. We have now a second partnership, which is just
under way for the MINI brand with Great Wall. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target as you can imagine, any decision including
corresponding stakes has to be discussed within the different partnerships to reach a mutual
agreement and to develop a win-win situation and we are definitely motivated to continue on this
track and to develop jointly with our partner, the operations in China to have for both parties a
win-win situation.
A - Unverified Participant
So, thank you very much Philippe. ``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO. `Nicolas, please go ahead. and Harald.
`Ladies and gentlemen, profitability, growth and innovation are the cornerstones of our business, thank you for joining us today. We wish you a wonderful summer time.
``Thank you, very much `Nicolas, please go ahead.. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions. very much, Harald. `And, in the Financial Services segment, we are aiming for a return on equity above our target now, ``Nicolas, please go ahead. Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, our CFO. and bye-bye.