Q1 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead sir.
`Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first quarter 2019
performance and 2019 financial guidance. I am joined today by our CEO, `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer; Frank
D'Amelio, our CFO; `Mikael Dolsten, CFO President of Worldwide Research and Development; Angela
Hwang; Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer, our Chief Commercial
Officer;and `Doug Lankler, SVP General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call were posted to our website earlier this morning and
are available at pfizer.com/investors. You will see here that Slide 3 covers our legal disclosures.
Albert and Frank will now make prepared remarks and then we'll move to a question-and-answer
session.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer. Albert?`Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chuck, and good morning everyone. It's been a busy and productive first few months
as CEO. I've had the pleasure of meeting with many of you to discuss Pfizer's long-term growth
prospects. I have also met with thousands of colleagues from around the world, all of whom are
committed to driving sustainable growth through scientific and commercial innovation, value-
creating capital allocation and a renewed focus on our purpose, breakthroughs that change
patients' lives.
I'm pleased to report that we began the year with a strong first quarter. Revenues were up 5%
operationally company-wide. This was driven by 8% volume growth, offset by net pricing decline
of 3%. If we look at our Biopharmaceuticals Group, which represented 70% of our revenue base
this quarter, we generated a strong 11% volume growth, and realized a net pricing decline of 3%.
We saw volume growth in several key brands, emerging markets and biosimilars, and we got our
Upjohn business up and running.
Let's begin with our result from the Biopharmaceuticals Group. This business grew its top line 7%
operationally, due primarily to the continued strength of several key brands, including Eliquis,
Ibrance, Prevnar 13, and Xeljanz. Eliquis had a strong start to the year, growing its revenues by
36% operationally in the quarter. Eliquis continues to extend its leadership in many major
geographies around the world, and in the U.S. we achieved an all-time high prescription share for
the brand this quarter. We remain pleased with the performance of Ibrance. Global revenues in
the first quarter increased 25% operationally to $1.1 billion. As you know, the Ibrance growth story
is now predominantly in international markets, where we saw 107% operational growth in the
quarter. This was driven by continued strong uptake in developed Europe, Japan, and certain
emerging markets. In the U.S., we saw 2% growth which reflected continued moderating volumes
in approved metastatic breast cancer indications.
Prevnar 13 revenues increased 10% operationally. We saw 31% operational growth in emerging
markets, due primarily to favorable overall impact and increased volume associated with
government purchases. These gains were partially offset by the non-recurrence of volumes
associated with an adult national immunization program in the first quarter of 2018. We saw 6%
growth in the U.S., driven by increased government purchases for the pediatric indication, partially
offset by lower sales of the adult indication. Regarding the upcoming ACIP Meeting in the U.S., we
continue to believe that maintaining the current age-based recommendation for adults would
prevent numerous cases of pneumococcal pneumonia as well as the related hospitalizations and
outpatients' treatments.
Xeljanz continues to perform well. Revenues in the quarter increased 34% operationally to $423
million. Volume growth in the U.S. was strong, aided by the recent addition of new indications.
While we are in the early days for both launches, 6% of the 38% volume growth in the U.S. came
from psoriatic arthritis, and 7% came from ulcerative colitis. So, 30% of the total volume growth
came from new indications. We look forward to these new indications potentially becoming even
more meaningful contributors in the future. For Xtandi, alliance revenues in the U.S. grew 6%
operationally to $168 million. We believe our broad label indication as well as the potential for new
indications represent a major opportunity to make a significant impact on patients' lives and
change the standard of care in prostate cancer.
Revenues from our biosimilars portfolio grew 7% operationally in the quarter. We received
regulatory approvals during the quarter for two oncology biosimilars, and we see the potential for
additional approvals in key markets later this year. In sterile injectables, manufacturing supply
constraints continue to impact our top line in the U.S. We have made some progress towardsfixing these issues, particularly since Frank D'Amelio assumed responsibility for our global supply
organization on November 1, 2018. We expect these issues to be significantly improved by the
end of 2019, and continue to expect this business to be a solid growth contributor in the future.
Our Upjohn business revenues grew 1% operationally in the quarter. Emerging markets were the
primary driver, including strong volume-driven operational growth in China for such brands as
Lipitor, Norvasc, and Celebrex. These gains were partially offset by lower revenues for Viagra,
and Pfizer's authorized generic for Viagra in the U.S, and for Greenstone, Upjohn's authorized
generic subsidiary, primarily due to continued industry-wide pricing challenges in the U.S. generic
space. With its streamlined operating structure, relative autonomy and its leadership located in
China, we believe Upjohn will help us seize the tremendous opportunity we see in the emerging
markets. As the global middle-class continues to rapidly expand, and as awareness and diagnosis
and treatment options continue to improve, we believe the Pharmaceutical segment will continue
to enjoy significant expansion in Greater China and other emerging markets. Pfizer's consumer
healthcare revenues were down 2% operationally in the quarter. This reflected an 8% decline in
the U.S., due in part to a milder-than-expected cold and cough season. This decline was partially
offset by 4% operational growth in international markets.
Turning now to R&D, today we released our latest pipeline update, which you can see on this
slide. We are very encouraged by our pipeline, both in terms of the breadth of opportunities and
the science, and while we have said that we expect our 2019 adjusted EPS to be essentially flat
operationally, compared with last year, due to the Lyrica LOE, we believe a look at our pipeline will
help bring our expected post-Lyrica growth drivers into clearer focus. Since the beginning of 2019,
we have already received five approvals; EU approvals for ZIRABEV, a biosimilar to Avastin for
treatment of multiple forms of advanced or metastatic cancer, and for VIZIMPRO for locally
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults. In the U.S., we received FDA approval
for Trazimera, a biosimilar to Herceptin for the treatment of certain forms of breast and gastric
cancer, and for Ibrance for the previously underserved male breast cancer population. The
Ibrance line extension marks the first time that Pfizer medicine has received an expanded
indication based on the real-world evidence. And in Japan, we received approval for Tafamidis for
the treatment of ATTR cardiomyopathy.
As you can see in this next slide, we have a diverse range of assets spanning from Phase 2
through registration and they cut across each of our areas of focus. Overall, we are thrilled with
the depth and breadth of our pipeline as we are not overly reliant on a single pipeline
opportunity. As you know, we announced our up to 15 in 5 cohorts almost two years ago. I'm
pleased to say that we are making good progress, despite experiencing some attrition, which is
to be expected. Let me touch on just a few of the recent and upcoming milestones. I'll start with
oncology. Data from our JAVELIN Renal 101 trial saw that the combination of Bavencio and Inlyta
significantly extended median PFS by more than five months compared with SUTENT as a first line
treatment for patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. We have filed this data with the FDA
with a PDUFA date in June.
With Keytruda plus Inlyta having been approved earlier this month, Bavencio will become the
second Inlyta combination available to patients with advanced RCC. We are preparing to submit
our Xtandi ARCHES data in hormone-sensitive prostate cancer in the coming months and in 2020,
we expect to have data from a Phase 3 EMBARK trial studying Xtandi for high risk hormone
sensitive prostate cancer as well as from two Phase 3 trials evaluating Ibrance in early stage
breast cancer. We recently presented data from Phase 2 study of our 20-valent pneumococcal
conjugate vaccine candidate for adults aged 18 years and older. We're now in Phase 3 and if the
data is supportive, we expect to file by the end of 2020. We also expect Phase 2 data from theinfant studies later this year. Additionally, our Phase 3 C-difficile vaccine study is now fully enrolled
with pivotal data expected next year.
In inflammation and immunology, we expect our first Phase 3 data read-outs in May for our JAK1
inhibitor in atopic dermatitis as well as additional read-outs in the second half of the year. Our
JAK3 inhibitor for moderate-to-severe alopecia areata which started a Phase 2b/3 trial in
December have also received breakthrough therapy designation and the pivotal readout is
expected in the second half of 2021. In internal medicine on April 18, we announced the results of
the long-term osteoarthritis study for Tanezumab. As we stated in the press release, we are
analyzing these findings in the context of the recent Phase 3 results as we assess potential next
steps for this medicine. We plan to review the totality of data from our clinical development
program for Tanezumab with regulatory authorities.
While we are very focused on continuing to advance our up to 15 in 5 cohorts, I also want to
provide an update on some of the exciting areas in earlier stages of development that we are
pursuing. These areas combine novel science and significant unmet medical needs. You can see
several areas on the chart but today I will highlight three from the rare disease space. Earlier this
month along with our partner Sangamo Therapeutics, Pfizer announced interim data from the
Phase 1/2 study indicating that SB-525 was generally well tolerated and demonstrated at dose
dependent increase in Factor VIII levels across the four dosage cohorts in hemophilia A patients.
Based on these results, the Safety Monitoring Committee recommended cohort expansion at the
high dose. In March, Pfizer acquired a 15% equity interest in Vivet Therapeutics, a privately held
company dedicated to developing gene therapy treatments for inherited liver disorders. Pfizer
and Vivet will collaborate on the development of VTX-801, Vivet's proprietary candidate for the
treatment of Wilson's disease.
At the upcoming PPMD Annual Conference in June, we expect to report data on our
investigational mini-dystrophin gene therapy candidate for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We will
continue to explore both internal and external opportunities for the next generation of
breakthroughs. At Pfizer, we are keenly aware that the breakthroughs coming out of our pipeline
won't mean anything if people can't afford them, that's why we continue to work with
policymakers, payers, providers, and other participants in the healthcare system to find solutions
to patients affordability. If you haven't already seen it, I would encourage you to read my
testimony from the February 26 Senate Finance Committee hearing on Affordable Access to
Medicines. It outlines four proposals that we believe will drive meaningful reductions in costs for
patients.
In summary, Pfizer is off to a very good start in 2019. We delivered strong financial performance,
while reaching millions of people around the world with our medicines and vaccines. Our new
commercial structure is designed to maximize today's revenue growth opportunities, while
transitioning the company to a period post 2020, where we expect higher and more sustained
revenue growth profile. We remain focused on executing on our commercial strategies,
managing expenses, advancing our pipeline, and prudently allocating our capital to position Pfizer
for sustainable success.
And now, I will turn it over to Frank to provide details on the quarter, and our outlook for 2019.
`Frank A. D'Amelio, CFO
Thanks, Albert. Good day everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our
webcast. Now moving on to the financials, first quarter 2019 revenues were approximately $13.1foreign exchange of $453 million or 4%. Our biopharmaceuticals Group business recorded 7%
operational revenue growth in the first quarter, driven primarily by Eliquis and Xeljanz globally,
Ibrance primarily in international markets, and Prevnar 13 in emerging markets and the U.S., all of
which were partially offset by declines in our hospital and rare disease businesses.
Revenues for our Upjohn business in the first quarter increased 1% operationally, primarily due to
25% operational growth in emerging markets, driven by strong volume driven operational growth
in China, primarily from Lipitor, Norvasc, and Celebrex partially offset by a 9% operational decline
in developed markets primarily driven by lower revenues for Viagra and Upjohn's authorized
generic for Viagra in the U.S. due to increased generic competition; Lyrica, primarily due to lower
volumes in the U.S. from wholesaler de-stocking in advance of anticipated generic competition,
beginning June 30 in the developed Europe for continued generic competition, and Greenstone
Upjohn's authorized generic subsidiary, primarily due to industry wide pricing challenges in the
U.S. Revenues of our consumer healthcare business declined 2% operationally reflecting an 8%
decline in the U.S. partially offset by 4% operational growth in international markets.
In the first quarter, we recorded GAAP earnings per share of $0.68. A $0.09 increase compared
to the year ago quarter, which was primarily due to the favorable impact of higher revenues in the
first quarter of 2019 compared to last year, lower purchase accounting adjustments, fewer shares
outstanding, which were partially offset by foreign exchange, higher asset impairment charges
and higher net losses on the early retirement of certain outstanding debt securities. Adjusted
diluted EPS for the first quarter was $0.85 versus $0.75 in a year ago quarter. The increase is
primarily due to higher revenues, fewer shares outstanding which were partially offset by the
impact of foreign exchange compared to the year ago quarter. Finally, diluted weighted average
shares outstanding declined by 307 million shares versus the year ago quarter,primarily due to
our share re-purchase activity in 2018 as well as our first quarter 2019 share repurchases, which
totaled $8.9 billion and included our $6.8 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement
executed in February. This was partially offset by dilution related to share-based employee
compensation programs.
As I mentioned earlier, foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter 2019 revenues by
approximately $453 million and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A
expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $315 million. As a result, foreign
exchange had a $0.02 per share negative impact on adjusted diluted EPS compared to the year
ago quarter. Moving on to 2019 financial guidance, we reaffirmed our 2019 financial guidance for
revenues. Two items to note. Our financial guidance continues to assume that the age-based
recommendation for Prevnar 13 in adults is maintained by the ACIP when they vote both in late
June of 2019. And our guidance continues to reflect expected headwinds in China due to pricing
reform which is now being implemented. We increased guidance for adjusted other income by
$100 million primarily due to milstone income recorded in the first quarter of 2019. As a result, we
increased the midpoint of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.01 to an updated range
of $2.83 to $2.93. This is the net impact of a $0.03 per share operational increase primarily due to
the aforementioned adjusted other income and some smaller favorable adjustments within our
other guidance ranges partially offset a $0.02 per share impact due to unfavorable changes in
foreign exchange rates since mid January 2019.
Moving on to key takeaways, we delivered strong first quarter financial results with 5%
operational revenue growth and 13% adjusted diluted EPS growth compared to the year ago
quarter. We raised our 2019 financial guidance range for adjusted diluted EPS by 0.01, reflecting a
$0.03 operational increase partially offset by a $0.02 unfavorable change in foreign exchange
rates since mid January of 2019. We accomplished multiple product and pipeline milestones sincethrough a combination of share repurchases and dividends. Finally, we remain committed to
delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2019 and beyond.
Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.
`Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Thank you, Frank and Albert for your prepared remarks. At this point, we would like to move to
our Q&A session please. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Tim Anderson from Wolfe Research.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A couple of questions, please. On your 20-valent Prevnar follow-on, I am hoping you
can talk about when you expect that to move in the pediatrics? It's your largest product Prevnar
13. It's a race between you and Merck to come up with a new and improved version of Prevnar 13.
You guys are the incumbent, yet you are not yet in phase 3 in peds, and Merck is. I am wondering
if that potentially foretells if there is some sort of formulation problems with your product in peds.
So asking for assurances that there aren't. Second question is on Ibrance and just the longer term
international opportunity. If you look at major cancer drug precedents in the past by other
companies, lots of times those products sell more outside the U.S. eventually than they do in the
U.S. Wondering if that could happen here with Ibrance in the CDK 4/6 class because it's not how
it's being modeled, or have there been too many price concessions made such that that's not
really achievable? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Tim, thank you very much. Both excellent questions; I will ask Mikael to address the question on
our 20-valent compared to 15-valent from Merck? And then Angela will answer the question
about Ibrance. Mike?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, CFO `
Yes, thank you. We are very pleased with our 20-valent pneumo next generation vaccine that
covers the 13 serotypes of Prevnar 13 plus seven new ones. These seven new ones were carefully
selected to make sure we have a broad coverage of emerging invasive pneumococcal disease
strains associated with high case fatality rates and antibiotic-resistance in some cases combined
with meningitis. We communicated our adult data at the ECCMID Conference recently which
showed a compelling profile which also of course was linked to the breakthrough designation by
FDA.
We are moving with good and robust pace forward in the pediatric settings. As you know, in the
pediatric settings, we have multiple immunization as well as a boost as is the current regimen for
use of conjugate vaccines which is different from the adult trials that the fastest, it's only one
immunization. We look forward to read out from the infant trial mid of this year in a Phase 2 proof-
of-concept study, and pending review those data set, we look forward to interaction with
regulatory agency and swift moving forward into a potential pivotal start. We are very pleased
with the formulation. It was very well-tolerated this far and think that we have included all
experiences from decades of pneumococcal work into our plan.A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
And I would like also to remind that we have a very strong patent portfolios on Prevnar, Angela,
would you like to address the question with Ibrance please?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Thank you. Ibrance revenue growth continues to be very strong ex-U.S. And you heard Albert
mention in his opening remarks that currently we are growing at 107% in Q1 of 2019. We believe
this growth to be sustainable as we see that there is still significant room to grow in the CDK
class as well as our own market share. Just as an example in the EU5m the CDK class is currently
35% of all first-line new patient starts while we have 86% Ibrance class share. In Japan, as an
example, this CDK class is only 21% first-line new patient starts and a 100% of the Ibrance class
share. So while we are continuing to build our Japan and EU business, we are also intensely
focused on our launches in the emerging markets. So far, we have seen 122% operational growth
year-on-year in the emerging markets, and led by double digit growth that we are seeing in
Argentina, India, Saudi Arabia as an example. We have launches coming up both in Brazil and
China which we are very excited about, and we expect these to be very strong contributors to
our 2019 growth trajectory. So, in view of the three phases of growth for Ibrance, the first being
the U.S., which is where we began with our first indication. Now in our international launches which
are moving beyond the developed markets to the emerging markets. And then the anticipation
of our adjuvant indications to come with Ibrance, we continue to be extremely optimistic, and I
feel very positive about the growth trajectory of Ibrance.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Angela. Next question please, Operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Q - `Vamil Kishore Divan, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. The first on Xtandi. The sales there were a little lighter
than we thought and I'm just wondering if there is any onetime item. The prescription trends also
seemed a little lower last quarter than what we were seeing in the past. So, comments there.
And then just maybe you outlook for that product longer term, I know you have expanded label in
new indications coming, so just if you could frame how you see that longer term? And then
second on the DMD data you mentioned coming in June. It's interesting a lot of focus on that
even though it's pretty early data, maybe if you could just sort of help sort of frame expectations
around that in terms of what we will actually see and what we should be expecting going into just
so people sort of have appropriate expectations given that it is such early data. Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Vamil. Angela, I think you can cover the Xtandi question, and then, John, if
you can please discuss the DMD data on
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Thank you. Well, we have seen very strong prescriber adoption of Xtandi across all of our
indications. I think that this demonstrates the confidence that prescribers have with Xtandi. Year-has grown 20%. We are also pleased with the uptake of Xtandi in non-metastatic CRPC. This is
our PROSPER trial. Even though this was launched just eight months ago, its market share is
already equivalent to our metastatic indication which was launched seven years ago. And this
market share is more than double that of ERLEADA in non-metastatic CRPC.
We have yet to realize the full potential of PROSPER, because the impact of patient accumulation
and the longer days of therapy are still to come, and just as a reminder, the days of therapy for
the PROSPER trial is 18 months. This quarter, as you say, the U.S. net revenue did lag behind total
patient demand. But this was due to some gross to net adjustments, some inventory differences,
and our free drug program. But we continue to believe in the strong growth potential of all of our
indications, and we look forward to our indications from both the ARCHES and the EMBARK trials,
which will continue to drive growth through expansion into new patient segments and offer longer
days of therapy. So we need to stay the course with our strategies, and we believe the impact
from PROSPER as well as our new indications will drive future growth, change the standard of
care, and meet high patient unmet needs.
A - `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer `
Thanks. Hi, Vamil. So thanks for the question about our DMD program. So Albert obviously
touched on this in his prepared remarks and just to emphasize again we are going to be
presenting data from mini-dystrophin DMD gene therapy candidate at the PPMD meeting in
Orlando, which is at the end of June. For our DMD program, the first patient was dosed with an
infusion of the mini-dystrophin gene therapy in March of 2018. In total, six patients have been
treated in two dose groups, one E14 and three E14 dose regimens. Part of the trial protocol,
muscle biopsies were to be taken at baseline two months post treatment and 12 months post
treatment. And to the extent that that biopsy data is available and mature, it will be presented at
PPMD. We also intend to present an update on the safety profile of this therapy at PPMD and we
are excited to present the data and obviously particularly to continue to work with the DMD
community for a disease that is so devastating for so many boys with this condition.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, John. It's a devastating disease, and we all hope that the solution that we are working
and others, but the solution that we are working would be really transformational. Next question?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan from J.P. Morgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Thanks very much. Just two bigger picture questions, I guess, the first one with the progress
you've been seeing on the pipeline, can you just update us in terms of where you see business
development fitting into the longer term view and strategy for the company. I guess, specifically, I
think you have been clear that larger deals are off the table for now, but when we think about
bolt-ons, what type of size of deal could that encompass and what are the latest priorities in
terms of commercial stage assets versus clinical assets et cetera? And my second question with
the Upjohn division, do you believe that it will be possible to eventually separate and spin this
division from the rest of Pfizer and if so what are the factors and kind of data points we need to
be watching that would make that type of separation something that would be possible over
time? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `Yes. With the business development, I will ask John to comment and you have heard our
comments that we plan to invest significantly in business development. It's a little bit different, the
way that we plan to do it right now. Before we were targeting revenues, now or soon. Right now,
the focus, it is how to -- and because this is what we needed at the time. Now our growth
trajectory, I think organically is going to be robust post 2020. So what we are looking for, it is to
enhance even further our pipeline. So, as regards the direction in how we are selecting clinical
opportunities -- clinical -- John, can you please make a comment? John has the responsibility of
managing this strategic area for us.
A - `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer `
All right. Thanks, Albert, and thanks Chris for the question. So I wouldn't repeat what Albert has
already said about the reorientation of our focus of BD from revenue, now seeing opportunities
to really strengthening our pipeline with clinical stage assets. I think, if you were to look into the
future, I think you'll see us continue to be very active in business development, but I think with our
focus generally on earlier to mid stage opportunities where clinical risk may be higher as data is
less mature, but we believe that the opportunity for value creation is greater. And the risk,
importantly, of operational disruption to the pipeline, internal pipeline, which is obviously
maturing, we believe, very nicely, is going to be lower. Certainly, in terms of what size we
consider to be a bolt-on, generally, we don't comment specifically on size. I think you would say
that assets that are in the range of a few billion dollars, we consider to be bolt-on acquisitions,
and to really complement our pipeline. So we are very excited about the opportunities that we
have and that's something that particularly we're going to be focused on over the months ahead.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, John, and maybe I can provide some color to your question about Upjohn. It's a good
question and I receive a lot this question and I understand the reasons. Right now, as I said
nothing has changed other than Upjohn performed very well in the first quarter. Always I said that
our focus it is to make sure that we stand up this business in a way that will operate effectively
and effectively means that in a very new, lean, construct with management relocated in China
where most of the opportunities are as evident from the first quarter but also where most of the
challenges will come as we know that there are some reforms that the governments are taking
into this business. So right now, I'm very, very pleased with the way that the whole thing is
evolving. If we think that we could separate down the road, yes, it is a possibility, but this is not
what is in my mind right now. First, we need to make sure that we have a strong stand-alone
business. So we are working to make sure that operates Upjohn fully as a subsidiary within the
company.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Great, thank you, Albert, and John. Next question please, Operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from Geoff Meacham from Barclays.
Q - `Geoffrey Christopher Meacham, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
Good morning, everyone. Thanks for the question. Mike or Albert, just wanted to see if you have
any additional color on the recent Tanezumab long-term data, just in particular the RPOA rates
and I know you're awaiting FDA feedback. But would it be the totality of the data so far or the
unmet need is still warranting a filing at this point. And then another one on BD somewhat, so onthe gene therapy front, you guys are obviously progressing a number of programs, hemophilia
DMD, a lot of BD activity in this area recently, so the question is, has the decision to buy versus
build, or partner changed for Pfizer over time. It does seem like post the Bamboo deal you guys
have a working platform that really could add multiple indications quickly. I just wasn't sure what
the strategy is there. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. I will ask Mikael and John to comment on Tanezumab. So John, why don't you start and
then maybe, Mikael, you can give a little bit of scientific information?
A - `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer `
Yes. So look, thanks for the question, Geoff. Obviously we've released a fairly significant
commentary on the study in our press release. I wouldn't comment on that, but I think, let me just
say for Tanezumab, we are continuing to analyze the clinical profile based on the ongoing Phase
3 development program in both OA and chronic lower back pain. That includes in totality five
Phase 3 studies and nearly 7,000 patients and we plan to review the totality of the data with
regulatory authorities and we'll assess potential next steps for Tanezumab and as we engage
with regulators we will be in a position to provide an update in the coming months.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, CFO `
That was very well-summarized, John, and of course it's a very large data set from this recent
Phase 3 and previous Phase 3. So it's a real opportunity to put together the totality of data
together with our partner, Lilly, and have a discussion with regulatory agency about that data set
and the pain landscape.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael, and then maybe I can give you an answer to your question about gene
therapy, it is yes, as you said gene therapy is an area but -- of significant focus for us and this is an
area that we started much earlier and our strategy was to combine our clinical expertise in the
said therapeutic areas together with biotech expertise as they were developing specific projects
and very early we realized that in this category the bottleneck is going to be manufacturing. This
is why Pfizer embarked into significant investments to build the platform in manufacturing, which
is progressing very, very well. As we look to the future, we plan to do both, to grow our platform
organically through projects that we're developing and inorganically through the licensing and
partnership that we are going to make. And actually the last partnership that we announced was
in the gene therapy field for the Wilson disease, which is a liver disorder. We believe actually that
exactly because of our track record of having successful partnerships, but also because we have
built a significant manufacturing capability, we will become a partner of choice for Biotechs that
they will see that the combination will unlock value for that.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Great. Thanks for those responses, can we move on to the next question please. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Simon Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Inc `Thank you. Couple of questions, please. Firstly, you referenced the, the pending ACIP review for
Prevnar 13. Given the replacement serotype drift that we've seen because the pediatric
vaccination. I know that your numbers in guidance includes -- no change in their recommendation.
What's your level of confidence? And if high, which it seems to be, exactly why is it high given the
meeting has been scheduled to discuss it? And then second, in reference to Eliquis. Could you
talk to what you see as the likely impact on realized pricing and volumes for Eliquis sales within
your Medicare book of business assuming rebate reform takes place as the administration seems
to be pushing for at the beginning of 2020? Many thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
All right, why don't you Angela answer the ACIP question?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
So, our adult PCV13 vaccination program has been extremely effective and it's difficult for me to
speculate on the ACIP vote because that's still coming up in June. But I do want to emphasize
that Pfizer strongly supports the continuation of the current adult vaccination program. This is
because there are actually important serotypes such as serotype 3 and serotype 19A that still
have not reached acceptable protection levels. So keeping the current recommendation will
prevent numerous individual cases of pneumonia, hospitalizations and other outpatient
treatments. Direct vaccination is important because there are also underserved populations still in
our country where the disease risk is high. And just to give you a couple of examples. Those that
are living in rural communities have 50% less coverage than those that live in suburban areas or
there is a 24 point gap among the low socioeconomic adults. I think you've also seen through the
recent news reports the importance of direct vaccination for adults as well as for public health
and we also are looking forward to the filing of our next generation pneumococcal vaccine, where
we received FDA breakthrough to exit designation. We expect to file this by the end of 2020 and
so it underscores the importance of an uninterrupted adult vaccination program.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Andrew, you asked also about the Eliquis and how we think this will perform in the
Medicare population particularly given price and volume. First of all, I would say that Eliquis had
the phenomenal performance I think I'm thinking highly about the profile of this product. But 36%
growth is really something that we feel - make us feel very proud and actually in the U.S., the
growth was even stronger 38% but the U.S., it's part of the business, right. So it is a very, very well
diversified geographical brand. And I think that the pricing pressures, the growth is coming
predominantly those 38% from volume, and all our strategies it is how to make sure when the
diagnosis rates are more accurate and people and physicians understand the profile of the
products that they can make the right choices when they choose to prescribe a medicine like that.
So given that everything is a predominant growth, it is volume and I think very good about the
growth prospects of this product going forward.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Thanks. Albert and Angela, can we move to our next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore. from Evercore.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore. `Hi, thanks so much for taking my questions. I wanted to focus on two broad topics. First on
Ibrance's adjuvant, can you quantify for us how large an opportunity you think that is? And given
the significance of it, I have to ask, is there an interim this summer? And secondly on DMD gene
therapy, my question is, do you think you have a best-in-class asset? And I ask partially because I
don't see this asset listed in your 15 blockbusters by 2022 which should theoretically be a very
realistic possibility even if the pivotal were to start in early 2020, so just wanted to reconcile both
of those. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Angela, I think you can deal with the Ibrance, the market, the potential of -- and also
let me say that -- on the studies, yes, there is an interim analysis as with all studies, but the
studies are designed to come to full completion. So we expect that the studies will be
completed. And we expect that this completion will happen next year, although it is event-driven,
so we need to see how the events will evolve. But, Angela, let's speak about the commercial
opportunity, and then, John, maybe you can give the clarification about DMD because what we
have in 15 in 5, it was not the gene therapy molecule. Please.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Sure. So, we have the two Phase 3 studies ongoing in the high risk early breast cancer population,
the first is the PENELOPE, which enroll patients with high risk early breast cancer previously
treated with the neo-adjuvant therapy and then we have PALLAS which enrolled patients with the
high risk early breast cancer stage 2 and 3, we're optimistic about both of these studies because
of the ability to meet unmet need but also to your question more directly if successful we will
have the ability from both of these programs to double the number of patients that are eligible
for Ibrance.
A - `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer `
Yes, and thanks for the question about DMD again. Obviously the 15 in 5 or up to 15 in 5 portfolio
reflected the portfolio that we had at that time and plainly one of the sort of good things in our
industry is that a portfolio is never static and so I think as we begin to see data readout from our
DMD gene therapy program, the profile of that medicine will become clear to us and to clinicians
and to importantly to patients. So we would really see this having the potential to be an additional
complement to that portfolio that we described last year. So I think it's obviously premature for
anybody to describe the relative profile of respective or other comparative gene therapy assets,
the data is still emerging, it's still in relatively small patient numbers and obviously for us and
other players in this field, we will see the totality of data as it emerges over the months and years
ahead. But we feel cautiously optimistic about that program. As I mentioned in my comments
earlier on, we look forward to presenting some clinical data from that later on this year.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Thank you, John and Angela for the background. Next question please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor Fitzgerald.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
I don't think we can hear you, if you are asking a question maybe you are in mute.Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hold on, un-mute the phone. Can you hear me, okay now?
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Very well.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Okay, sorry about that. Okay, so thanks for taking my questions, I have a few here. So first
question I had was on Tanezumab, just curious how the recent data impacts you thinking with
respect to the CLBP in cancer pain indications and then secondly on Tafamidis, how do you
expect the initial launch to go if you do get approval this year, what is your anticipation for
adoption, payer coverage, physician and patient awareness and then last question is on your
business development comments, just curious if you have any interest in primary care or you
more focused on specialized medicine? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. John, what about Tanezumab?
A - `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer `
Yes, thanks for the question Louise. I mean I think we've probably covered this mostly in our
comments earlier on. So we obviously have shared fairly detailed press releases at each of our
Phase 3 studies readout and I think what we are just saying overall is we're going to look at the
totality of the data from all of our Phase 3 studies, we have round about 7000 patients worth of
data, we're still in the process of analyzing the clinical profile and understanding its potential value
across different indications. Our next step is obviously most importantly going to be to discuss
that data with regulators and we will be in a better position to be able to provide you with an
update once we have done so.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Angela, very exciting news for Tafamidis' potential launch, so tell us.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Yes, we are very excited about Tafamidis and that's because it's a transformative therapy for
ATTR-CM and today it treats a fatal and a rare disease where there are no therapies or no
alternatives but it also addresses a large burden on the healthcare system because of the
complications and the hospitalizations that arise from this disease. We do see this though as a
rare disease, so approximately 100,000 patients in the U.S. But as you know today it is severely
underdiagnosed. We estimate approximately a less than 1% diagnosis rate because of their lack
of treatment and the use of invasive heart biopsies to drive the diagnosis. So, as you can see
diagnosis is going to be key to growing this market. At launch therefore we're going to be
focused on creating suspicion of this disease by cardiologists and patients through educating
them around the signs and symptoms of cardiomyopathy.
We also need to increase the utilization of non-invasive methods such as scintigraphyversus a
heart biopsy for diagnosis. So as you can see, this will all take time because we need to educate
both physicians and patients on these red flag symptoms. We need to drive the utilization ofto drive both diagnosis and treatment. But as Pfizer, we are confident about our capability to build
this market because we have a track record of success in creating new markets. And just to bring
up an example from Xalkori, you may recall that at the time of launch of Xalkori the diagnosis rate
of the ALK mutation was only 1%. But today it is 80% to 90%. So Tafamidis has excellent data, it
has a compelling patient benefit. Pfizer has deep expertise and a commercial footprint in
cardiology. So we look forward to bringing all of these capabilities to bear in launching this
important medication to the patients who need it.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela and maybe I can make some comments about your question Louise about if
we would be interested to also in-license primary care potential candidates in medicine and the
answer is of course yes. But let me be clear and specific what we mean. We have specific criteria
what we are interested in licensing in, so it's not just a blind thing to have given to people go in-
license things. But those criteria involve that the potential of medicines need to be
breakthroughs. It's to be significant science that can create significant improvement in current
standards of care. And they need to be within the areas of expertise of Pfizer, so that we can add
value to it. It's just not to go on with the in-licensing. But we can add value.
And we have six areas of expertise right now that they are all from that aspect, from my
perspective, are treated equally. Those are areas that we know we have the best science in the
world that they can make fewer mistakes as we're selecting products. And this is where we have
the scientific expertise to develop potential in licensing assets in the best possible way because
the development path plays a key role in our working the value of a molecule and primary care is
definitely one of the areas of significant expertise of us from the long way that goes way back
but also in the current days as we are having some of the best scientific programs running in
metabolic diseases and other primary care conditions in our research centers. So the answer is
yes, and the criteria that we are going to implement I hope I made them clear.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Great, thank you, Albert. Next question please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Jason Gerberry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Q - `Jason Gerberry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I guess just firstly coming back to the
Tafamidis launch. Can you give us a sense of what you view as maybe the best analogs for driving
this diagnosis and treatment rate above this 1% level. I guess on the one hand it looks like there's
a largely an educational element to this with a lot of these patients basically sitting in the
cardiologist office just not diagnosed but you also have a drug that's pretty easy to dose no
monitoring. So I'm just kind of curious, if there are any analogs that you guys have thought about. I
wouldn't think that Xalkori would be the greatest analog but correct me if I'm wrong. And then
secondly on DMD gene therapy, it sounds like you haven't dosed any patient at the intermediate
dose, I was curious sort of the rationale for having an intermediate dose, was that more of a
safety consideration or just seeing the above normal expression levels achieved with Sarepta
program had a lower dose than your high dose was the decision ultimately to just have the
optionality around a lower dose? Thanks.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `Thank you. Angela, why don't you deal again with Tafamidis question. There is a lot of interest in
this product and they understand why.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Yes, sure. So actually we do think that Xalkori is a great analog for what we see coming up for
diagnosis in -- for Tafamidis in cardiomyopathy. Today, this is a disease where the symptoms and
the signs and symptoms are easily, I guess it could be confused with heart failure. So I think the
ability for us to be able to find diagnostic approaches that will help us to really identify and to
isolate who, specifically the cardiomyopathy patients are going to be really important. I think that
there are some symptomatic attributes that we plan to be educating around at the time of
launch. But really, what we need is the ability to leverage technology such as scintigraphy as an
alternative to what exists today, which is a hard biopsy, which is extremely invasive.
And I think that the ability to use scintigraphy will allow us to more readily diagnose these
patients, I think the qualitative attributes, the symptoms will allow us to create suspicion around
what the right pool of patients might be. But the definitive diagnosis really needs to come with
scintigraphy. There are 15,000 scintigraphy machines within cardiology offices today and 32
centers of excellence. So I think that this effort around education and awareness building is going
to be key to both bring patients to the doctors' offices, but also to highlight the importance of
these symptoms to prescribers and then to eventually diagnose and to treat. So as we said, I
think we have deep expertise and capabilities in doing this, but that you can imagine with a
disease that is so undiagnosed and up till now has had no therapeutic options. This is going to
take time for us to really educate and to bring the full benefit of Tafamidis to bear.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. And Mikael please, if you can comment on dosing strategy with a DMD
development program, and maybe you can provide any color you would like about this
breakthrough medicine?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, CFO `
Thank you very much. Yes, we worked with our Bamboo colleagues in carefully designing this AV9
vector that contains muscle relevant with specific promoter for expression of the trans gene. And
the protocol was designed intentionally based on our experience of many gene therapy
programs to allow some flexibility, which was the basis for dosing at 1E to the 14 and 3E to the 14
to gain experience across a reasonable dose range in what will be the expression of the trans
gene the tolerability and clinical performance for young boys that, as Albert alluded to earlier,
we're aiming to have a transformative outcome. Now we look forward to share data at the PPMD
meeting in Orlando this late June. We think it is a good meeting for that purpose. It's one of the
largest Duchenne muscular dystrophy gathering where both key scientists attend and patient
representative. As you know, these types of devastating rare disease you work very closely with
the leading scientists and patient groups. So we look forward to be there and share data set as
John alluded to earlier.
Q - `Jason Gerberry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you very much, Mike.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. Thank you for that background also. Next question, please?Operator
Your next question comes from `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets from BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Good morning and thank you. A couple of follow-up questions on Tafamidis. Congratulations on
the approval in Japan; it was faster than we expected. We focused a lot in the U.S. market, but
could you also comment on the ex U.S. opportunity for tafamidis? And following up on the
diagnosis rate commentary, my understanding was that you are also working on blood tests to
make diagnosis even easier. Could you give us an update on those efforts as well as your
potential launch readiness in case of earlier approval in the U.S.? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alex. Angela again, you are the ex U.S. opportunities and on the testing?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Right. So, yes, with the Japan launch was very recent. And I think that the opportunity there sets
us up well, for the kind of launches that we expect to see around the world, as you say, it's not
just the U.S., it's Japan, it's also rest of world. In terms of rest of world, I think the filings have
been submitted and unable to comment on those for now because we are still awaiting for
commentary from the regulatory agencies, but I think that my general comment about Tafamidis
is really one that I mentioned earlier, which is the critical aspect of this is diagnosis. It really is a
rare disease. It is severely underdiagnosed today because of the lack of options. And so, critical
to our ability to drive Tafamidis growth anywhere in the world, is the ability for us to be able to
find the patients and then be able to screen them and to be able to diagnose them and then
send them on to treatment. So I see that these trends are pretty consistent wherever we are
around the world.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael is a great physician, but you are as well. Can you please comment a little bit on the
diagnosis opportunities for this Tafamidis?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, CFO `
Yes, I want to just punctuate that. The growing availability of scintigraphy technician based, makes
it increasingly easy to get the diagnose after suspicion often raised by clinical symptoms, and
echocardiogram. We are also in parallel looking at potential future blood markers. But right now, I
think there should be no really hindrance to fast and easy diagnosis based on clinical sign
scintigraphy. And in addition, we have made work on diagnostic algorithms, including artificial
intelligence to be able to advise on typical algorithms that makes a heart cardiomyopathy, more
likely to be TTR related, than unrelated.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. It's amazing how much work is happening right now in this field and particularly how AI also
can help identify potential people that potentially could suffer from this disease. And we had
some multiple discussions with payers as well and a lot of them, they're having high interest to
exploit this opportunity because when we say 1% is diagnosed, we don't mean that the 99%, they
are just untreated. Usually, all of these patients are presented with heart failure symptoms anddoctor haven't identified the disease, the real cause of their cardiac issues and then they have
treated it and failed and treated it and failed and then eventually, there's a fatal event. So payers
are highly interested to diagnose this disease, I think. But as Angela said, this is the key and we
know how to do it very well. But it will take time to pick up these diagnosis rates, but we will do.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Great. Thanks for that context as well. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS. from UBS.
Q - `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS. `
Hi, `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS., UBS. Thanks for taking the questions. A few, if I may. Interesting slide on your
treatments beyond up to 15 in 5, 2 in particular stood out the oral GLP-1 and the HER2 ADCs.
Could you provide any context for how far along those assets are particularly the oral GLP-1, are
those Phase 2 assets, Phase 1 assets? Any color would be helpful. And then, I'll add to the
questions on Tafamidis. With regards to the payer discussions, are most of those related to
traditional contracts or are you exploring outcomes based contracting? And if so, to what extent
is that? Do you think that outcomes-based contracting is will be a broad mandate or is it more of
a experimental type of situation. And then finally, if you have any color on resolution of the sterile
injectable manufacturing issues, is the resolution still expected for end of 2019? Thank you very
much.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Thank you very much. Mikael, let's start with you, and with the Beyond 15 in 5?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, CFO `
Yes, I really appreciate your interest in the beyond 15 in 5, which of course covered the next
period beyond 22 of the up to 15 in 5. So for the oral GLP, that's been an area where we have
deployed some unique chemistry. And I'm very pleased to say that we are right now concluding a
Phase 1b trial in diabetic patients and I've seen some very encouraging performance of that drug
related to control of diabetes and bodyweight and we look forward to share those and will swiftly
move into a larger Phase 2 trial for diabetes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the only true
small molecule that have come this far and shown this promise in PK and pharmacodynamic
favorable effects. The next generation HER2 ADC is based on site directed conjugation of
adjuvant inhibitor and has been going through dose escalation and showed promising signs of
activity. We continue to optimize those and expect to go into Phase 2 expansion cohort relatively
soon including potential combination with PD-1 agents.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Let me give you a very brief comment on Tafamidis and then I will ask Frank to
take the manufacturing question. On Tafamidis, as you know breakthroughs requires a
breakthrough approach is also commercial and we believe that we want to, we believe that
Tafamidis is also suitable product given that we have a strong clinical outcomes data for value
based agreements. So we are discussing and with multiple payers. It's too early to comment
because also we are in the middle of the year and usually contract starts from the beginning of
the year. Nevertheless there is significant interest and discussions between ourselves and payerson agreements that will really value the value that the product brings to patients. So, Frank, on
manufacturing?
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, CFO
So, on the manufacturing, yes, we do plan on having significant improvements implemented by
the end of 2019. But please also know along the way we've already implemented numerous
preventative and corrective actions and we've seen a nice improvement in our overall supply to-
date.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. And I want to say Frank is always a man of few words and with a lot of actions. I'm very, very
pleased with the way that under Frank's leadership and the new leadership he has, we are
progressing on addressing the issues with manufacturing.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Thank you. Can we take next question please, Operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim from Guggenheim.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Thanks very much for the question. So just a couple of quick ones, can you just help us
understand the number that you guys printed on EUCRISA this quarter as well as the sales for
Xeljanz. What were the main impacts on both of those products? And then just as a second
question if you guys wouldn't mind again this is a bit related to Xeljanz. Can you help us
understand how differentiated the products in the dermatology Phase 3 clinical trials whether it
be in alopecia or in atopic dermatitis. How differentiated those are from Xeljanz and perhaps
from some of the other programs in development? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. Angela, why don't you hit quickly the Eucrisa and Xeljanz question? And then we can leave
time to Mikael, who is very passionate about the JAK portfolio to speak about it.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Okay, great. So let me start with some comments on Xeljanz. So as you can see Xeljanz had a
34% operational growth globally. In the U.S. Xeljanz grew 18% but actually the scripts grew 37%.
So if you look at some of the Q1 effects some of that is due to higher rebating unfavorable
channel mix and reauthorizations for patients that change insurance. And this is pretty typical of
what we see every quarter. So I think we're really encouraged by the strong volume growth that
we've continued to see in the U.S. and around the world for Xeljanz and it's all three of our
indications strong growth from RA, exciting new launches for both PSA and UC and we're
beginning to see some very, very strong market shares for UC as well coming out of the gate. For
EUCRISA, specifically the number of EUCRISA patients in the U.S. for the first quarter was actually
up more than 80,000 patients, so that's a 55% increase compared to where we were last year
at this time. However, you do see revenues down slightly in Q1 and this is because despite the
increased demand, we were negatively impacted by higher rebates in the U.S. So we need tocontinue to work on improving our formulary position and continuing to drive growth of EUCRISA
in segments both in the U.S. as well as ex-U.S.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, CFO `
Yes, So thank you for the interest in how we plan to grow the dermatology sector here. So for the
atopic dermatitis where we are in Phase 3 and with a JAK1 inhibitor and the first readout of the
JADE trial program is coming now in May and the second is coming this fall, we selected the JAK1
because we think JAK1 selective has the advantage that it covers certain cytokines that are part
of the disease pathophysiology IL-4, IL-13, similar as dupilumab. But on top of that, we cover IL-31
that relates to each phenomenon that bothers atopic dermatitis patients. And we saw a very
profound and early relief of that in Phase 2 that we're obviously looking to confirm in our Phase 3
trial. While alopecia, it's a different type of underlying mechanism what we deal with cytotoxic
cells destroying the hair follicles and the JAK3 selective inhibitor in what is worth we thought
would be the best. And that was what we nicely recorded as a very effective agent in our Phase 2
trial, and it also has a very clean profile that most well-tolerated agent we have seen so far. So we
look forward certainly to the Phase 2b pivotal study, and we also started a vitiligo study with this
JAK3 inhibitor.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
All right. Thank you very much, Mikael. Our next question please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thanks very much. So first I'm hoping that you can talk about your expectations for organic
revenue growth prospects for your Upjohn division relative to the 1% that you printed in the first
quarter. I just don't have a sense for how we should think about that, whether that will grow or
since you put Lyrica in there, that it's about to decline. So if you could help us understand the
growth prospects for Upjohn, that would be helpful. Second, with respect to your patents that
could potentially be blocking Merck's 15-valent launch in coming years, could you please talk
about those patents and your level of conviction that Merck cannot launch and then just a final
tidbit what are your planned biosimilar launches in the U.S. in the second half of this year? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
So let me start with Upjohn and obviously Doug can cover the Merck patent situation and then
Angela you can speak a little bit about the biosimilars. Our expectations for Upjohn in this year, of
course, is going to be a decline, because they would be seriously affected by the loss of patent
of Lyrica that will happen in the middle of the year. And that will affect their growth also next year,
because they will have to face full-year LOE, which would be next year with only half a year LOE
which is this year. Following that, I see Upjohn as a very stable to low -- single-digit growth on the
top line, and much higher on the bottom line, and leverage bottom-line growth, but of course,
that will be post 2020 year where the impact of Lyrica will be absorbed. Doug?A - `Doug Lankler, SVP `
So we were pleased that the patent trial and appeal board denied Merck's IPR petitions on two
of our U.S. patents covering compositions of pneumococcal vaccines. This patent stand is valid
and will not expire until 2026. We believe that these patents and others in our portfolio present
freedom to operate issues for Merck and its development of a 15-valent pneumococcal vaccine.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Very clear.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
And then biosimilars, so we will have three biosimilar launches in 2019. Trastuzumab was already
launched in the EU in the first quarter and we look forward to the launch of trials in Japan in the
third quarter. Rituximab will also be launched in Japan and that will be in the fourth quarter and
then finally Bevacizumab will be launched in both the U.S. and Japan in the fourth quarter. We've
seen some nice uptake in the supportive oncology portfolio that we launched late last year and
we look forward to the oncology biosimilar portfolio contributing to our growth.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela.
A - `Charles E. Triano, SVP of IR `
Thank you, and Operator, if we could take our last question, please.
Operator
Your final question comes from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. This is actually Kathy Miner on for Steve. Just a question on Bavencio please, we had
been expecting Bavencio Phase 3 data in second line bladder this year, is this still possible. And
then secondly is there any chance for an interim on the JAVELIN lung 100 this year and what is the
PDL1 cut off for that trial? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Two questions Mikael for you.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, CFO `
Yes. So, thank you for showing interest in our Bavencio portfolio. So we expect late this year or
possibly early next year as you know these are event driven trials that we will include the bladder,
it's actually a first line trial, so it's quite an interesting trial where we have Bavencio as a
maintenance therapy of the chemo. We'll also have PDL 1 high expression trial in lung, which if
positive could be the second PDX available for monotherapy PD-L1 high lung and then we have a
gastric first line also post-chemo patients in maintenance for Bavencio, so, quite nice remaining
cohort and we look forward to review the data coming out of this. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Mikael. And I think this concludes the Q&A session. Just I wanted to say that I found
this session very productive. I'm very pleased that the vast majority of the questions with minus
one or two, maybe, were focused on our pipeline and were focused on Tafamidis new launch
products. And I don't remember any other session but Frank didn't receive any finance question,
which is what happened today. I think this is exactly how science-based company when the results
for the quarter are good, should be discussed in our earnings call. I'm very pleased about that.
We continue to believe that Pfizer's position in the market is strong. We have great products, we
have strong R&D and marketing skills, prudent capital allocation and perhaps most important, a
clear path towards sustainable growth. Thank you very much and have a great day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Pfizer's first quarter 2019 earnings conference call. You may
now disconnect.