Q2 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon and welcome to the Novartis Q2 2019 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Audio Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all
participants will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator
Instructions). A recording of the conference call including the Q&A session will be available on our
website shortly after the call ends. (Operator Instructions)
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Thank you everybody for taking the time to listen and participate in our quarter two
investor call.
Before we start, I'll just read the Safe Harbor statement. The information presented today
contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, andother factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to the
Company's Form 20-F on file with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for a description
of some of these factors.
And with that, I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir, and thanks everyone for joining today's conference call. In the room with me
today, I have `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO; Shannon Klinger, our Chief Legal Officer; `Susanne Schaffert, Chief Executive Officer of Novartis Oncology,
our President of Novartis Oncology; `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, our President of Novartis
Pharmaceuticals; `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development, our Global Head of Drug Development; and Richard Saynor, our new
Head of Sandoz.
So as you saw today in this morning's results, we really had an exceptional Q2 and a strong first
half of the year, which we're very pleased with and very pleased to give you further details on
over the course of this presentation.
If we turn to Slide 4, we delivered a strong Q2 with margin expansion and continued to progress
our agenda on transformative innovation. When you look at the operational performance, we
have plus 8% on sales, plus 20% on core operating income, with margin expansion of 3.2%. And
Harry will go through in a bit more detail the numbers as well as some of the pushes and pulls
that we see for the first half as well as for the second half. But based on the strong momentum
that we've seen, we are increasing our sales and core operating income guidance for the full year
and Harry will go through the specifics of that in a few slides. Importantly, we also advanced our
transformative innovation agenda with our pipeline with Zolgensma, Piqray, and Mayzent all
launched. Xiidra acquired in July is now fully integrated and we're getting prepared to re-energize
that brand. SEG101 filed with a priority review and we also had the positive overall survival data
with Kisqali in pre-menopausal women presented at ASCO. So, very strong progress on our
innovation agenda as well.
So, moving to Slide 5. The sales performance was primarily driven by very strong performance in
Innovative Medicines. In particular, we are pleased with the performance in our growth drivers. So,
of course Entresto and Cosentyx continued their strong momentum as you can see with the
growth rates in Q2 and in the first half across our oncology brands as well as very strong growth.
Lutathera continuing to perform well. Kisqali beginning to accelerate. Kymriah also with very solid
performance. So we saw a broad-based growth across our Innovative Medicines portfolio, which
gives us confidence as well for the remainder of this year and going into future years.
So, moving to Slide 6. When you look at Cosentyx specifically and particularly focusing on the US,
we are pleased we could continue to grow the brand in a what is increasingly competitive
environment. Looking at the US dermatology segment, you can see that for NBRx percent gains
Q2 2019 versus Q2 2018, Cosentyx gained 1.5 share points in a very competitive space. So, we're
very pleased by that strong performance by our US team. When you look at TRx, we're growing
ahead of market at 28% versus a market growth of 10% and with 17% overall growth in NBRx.
When you go to Rheumatology where again Cosentyx has truly unique data in psoriatic arthritis
and ankylosing spondylitis, you can see our weekly TRxs are now approaching or exceeding
Enbrel and Humira. When you think in terms of market growth, we're growing 38% versus a
market growth of 14% on TRx and also have solid NBRx share growth. So when you look across
the US business, we are very pleased with how Cosentyx is performing in this competitive
environment and we look to continue that momentum in the back half.Turning to Slide 7. I also wanted to highlight that we continue to generate additional data on
Cosentyx in the existing indications in psoriasis and Rheumatology as we prepare for data we
plan to release later this year and in the coming years on new indications. In particular, when you
look at psoriatic arthritis, most of these patients have so-called axial manifestations. And
Cosentyx has demonstrated in our recent MAXIMISE study that we could impact these axial
manifestations in a significant way. You can see the data here that we recently presented. This
further bolsters the case for Cosentyx use in these rheumatology patients. I think it's just one
example of many as we continue to build out the dataset to support Cosentyx broad use.
So, moving to Slide 8. When you look at Entresto, we are seeing a really strong performance
from Entresto, continued acceleration for this important medicine for heart failure patients. You
saw the revenue growth of 81% with solid growth both in the US and in the ex-US, but importantly
we continue to get strong recommendations from key groups. So on the right hand side, you can
see the European Society of Cardiology Heart Failure Expert Consensus now supports Entresto's
use as first-line therapy for patients with HFrEF. This will allow us to continue to accelerate the use
of Entresto in the first-line setting in ambulatory and in the hospital setting. I'll talk a little bit more
about the PARAGON dataset in a few slides.
So, moving to Slide 9. I'd like to spend a few slides giving you an update on Zolgensma. So, we're
very pleased with the launch of Zolgensma today. We've seen very strong demand. We're
pleased with the launch and access progress we're making. I want to give you a few details as
proof points. First, when you look at the launch, we had an approval on May 24th. Within three
days, we were promoting in the market. Within roughly a week, we had our first commercial policy
and product ready to ship. We had our first US patient treated within approximately two weeks
and we already have had patients treated through the French ATU mechanism outside the United
States. In some instances, we've even had patients approved for therapy from the time of
receiving the Rx within 24 hours. So, that kind of shows you the enthusiasm there is in the SMA
community for this medicine.
Now for some of the details. The first thing I want to highlight is even in the absence of medical
policies or specific approvals, we are able to use medical exceptions to manage many of these
patients getting through the process and that's the primary route right now we're doing when we
don't have a policy in place. But we're having best-in-class we believe progress on getting
medical policies in place. Over 20 commercial plans representing 40% of commercial lives and
four Medicaid plans have policies on coverage already. Not all of these have been posted on
external websites. The majority of these policies are in line or close to the label. The common
limitations we're seeing are with patients with four SMN2 copies, which is about 10% of the overall
SMN2 prevalent population in this age group and some limitations with combination use with
nusinersen. When you look at the approval rates we're seeing so far, patients going through the
Novartis hub, almost all patients going through our hub have been approved thus far when
appropriate steps -- after appropriate steps have been taken. We have very high approval rates
for the on-label patients either via policy or medical exception as I've said. And I think the other
important thing to note is we've had a wide range of patients already approved including patients
from age one to 23 months, weight up to 12 kilograms, 2 and 3 SMN2 copy numbers, treatment-
naive, as well as those previously treated by the currently approved product. In terms of
contracting, to get any of the special contract terms that we've been promoting, we have 17
commercial plans representing 40% of commercial lives, having already signed a letter of intent
on contracting terms and we continue to try to progress across the relevant insurance community.
So, strong progress already in just what's a first few weeks after launching this medicine.
So, if you go to Slide 10 and you look at the news-flow we have for the second half. We arebased on our strong study. We are on track to have EU and Japan approval by Q4 2019 and we
plan to have other country filings initiated in Q3 for our broad global rollout of the medicine. Later
on this year, we'll show the data -- updates on data from SPR1NT, STRONG, and STRIVE at various
medical congresses as you can see over the course of the fall.
So, moving to Slide 11. One piece of data I wanted to highlight from our recent presentations at
AAN is Zolgensma's performance in presymptomatic patients where patients are achieving age
appropriate motor milestones. Just to remind you, SPR1NT is our presymptomatic study. It's a
study that has patients with both 2 copies and 3 copies of the SMN1 gene, patients who are
presymptomatic. And what you can see on the right hand side is the progress these patients are
making versus the WHO windows of normal achievement. So, you can see the patients in green
boxes are patients who are sitting without support and have 2 copies of the SMN2 gene. You can
see patients standing with assistance. And you can see how these patients are now progressing
and we're looking forward to providing you an update to show we hope that we can get these
patients to progress normally after treatment early in their life after being identified by newborn
screening or in the early months of their life. So, very exciting data presented at AAN already on
presymptomatic patients and more updates to come in the fall.
So, now moving to Piqray on Slide 12. Piqray received FDA approval on May 24th, CHMP opinion is
expected in the second half of this year. We're pleased with the progress we're already making
with payers, covering over 80% of the target population in terms of the engagement we have
already had. We're also seeing good uptick of the PIK3CA mutation testing, which is really our
focus for this year to really ensure high testing rates, so that we can drive the launch for the years
to come. The NCCN guidelines currently recommend PIK3CA mutation testing and we've also
entered into an agreement with Foundation Medicine to develop plasma and tissue testing.
We're also pleased that we're now able to confirm we will be exploring Piqray in other tumor
types. In the second half of 2019, we'll have trial starts for HER2+ Advanced Breast Cancer as well
as Triple Negative Breast Cancer. And then based on data we already have in-house, we will be
moving to late-stage studies in first half of 2020 in head & neck and ovarian cancers.
So on Slide 13, we move to Mayzent. Now in Mayzent, we are also pleased with the progress
we've made. This was the year where we wanted to focus on educating the physician community,
making sure we had strong access in place, so that we could drive this brand's use in the SPMS
setting for the long-term. Just to remind you. we had unique clinical data and a supportive label to
start with the full range of RMS indications, but the only medicine that has SPMS data specifically in
its label and some of the interesting profile elements of the drug is high efficacy, reduces disease
progression, no first dose observation for 70% of the patients. Thus far our priorities for Mayzent
are progressing well. We believe we're the first choice now for active SPMS for healthcare
providers in the United States. We have 90% of neurologist willing to prescribe Mayzent based on
the survey data that we see. We currently have 70 million lives with preferred access to Mayzent
to-date and we continue to try to grow that access over-time and we're also working to use
digital tools to help identify patients who truly are active SPMS patients and would benefit from
Mayzent in the long-term. So we'll look forward to providing detailed sales data in Q3 for both
Zolgensma and Mayzent, but I hope that gives you a sense of where we are on building the
foundational building blocks for both of these launches.
Now turning to ophthalmology. With Beovu, our RTH258 as you know, we developed a
differentiated medicine that now is on track for launch upon approval later this year. Remind you
that HAWK and HARRIER clinical programs demonstrated uncompromised vision, less retinal fluid,
and fewer injections versus the comparative medicine. We've also launched a pretty expanded
clinical program including a study called, TALON, which is a head-to-head study of brolucizumablook to continue to provide the data needed to support Beovu's use in a broad range of patients
for the long-term. We're prepared for the launch, approval expected in Q4 '19; CHMP in Q1 2020.
We have already seen strong awareness of the clinical data, both our US and EU operations are
preparing and we plan to be ready for a strong day one launch of this medicine.
Also in ophthalmology, when you go to slide 15, our plan is to accelerate Xiidra, now that we've
brought it fully in-house while laying the foundation to maximize its long-term potential. Now just
to remind you, dry eye is a significant patient unmet need. It's generally under-diagnosed and
under-treated. 34 million patients with dry eye in the US alone is estimated. Only 50% are
accurately diagnosed and really only a fraction of that 10% is treated with an appropriate
medicine. We're well aware that when you look at the TRx data for Xiidra over recent quarters, it
has been very flat. We believe this is because of the uncertainty involved at Xiidra's ultimate
ownership was not clear. Now that we've brought uncertainty to the sales organization and the
marketing organization, our plan is to reinvest in the medicine. We'll re-engage the sales force
focus on share of voice, we have a plan to optimize our medical education with a plan to promote
including a DTC campaign starting in Q4 of '19. Longer term, our plan to maximize Xiidra will
depend on our ability to expand access for Part D patients beginning in 2021. So we'll continue to
track, continue to push and we'll look forward to keeping you up to date on our progress with
Xiidra.
Now lastly on our near-term portfolio. I wanted to give an update on SEG101, Crizanlizumab, which
has been submitted in both the US and EU. But just as a reminder, in the world of sickle cell
disease, we have therapies which are to treat a sickle cell pain crisis. There are therapies to
prevent a crisis from happening in the first place such as the SEG101 and then there are of course
cell and gene therapies that are looking in certain patients to try to definitively treat the
underlying genetic cause of the disease. In the case of SEG101, we're really focused on
preventing vaso-occlusive crises, which are the primary reason for hospitalization, the primary
cause of pain and long-term sequelae for these patients, including some of the mortality
outcomes and the long-term cost of the system. So I think you may have seen, we've been
granted priority review for SEG101 in the US and we continue to advance our filings around the
world. We're also gearing up for a successful launch in the US with the commercial organization in
place, access plans in place and an Innovative Disease Awareness Campaign that we've launched
using digital technology, which we hope will truly mobilize the patient community behind this
medicine. As a reminder, there is about 60% of the patients we would expect within the sickle cell
disease population who have two or more vaso-occlusive crisis and would be eligible for SEG101.
So moving to Slide 17 and just say a few words about upcoming readouts. We have a number of
upcoming readouts in Q3, Q4 and Q1. I wanted to highlight a few of these in my closing
comments.
So if you move to Slide 18, I think as many of you are aware the PARAGON heart failure study is
first confirmatory trial that's been trying to be conducted in preserved ejection fraction. Its large-
scale study to be conducted in preserved ejection fraction heart failure using a novel endpoint
with recurrent heart failure hospitalization. Our next expected milestones for this are results and
filing in the second half of 2019 and we also have a shell that's been posted for the ESC late-
breaker. I would know we have not seen the data yet for this study. This is really a shell for the
late-breaker presentation. The study was intentionally designed to assess Entresto's impact on
the burden of disease, these repeat hospitalizations. We believe the study design looking at that
primary endpoint as well as other elements we've learned from past failures in preserved
ejection fraction heart failure will give us the best possible chance of succeeding in what a patient
population that never had an approved medicine. So we will look forward to giving you updatesSo moving to slide 19, I also wanted to say a word about ofatumumab, which is a subcutaneous B-
cell depletion agent targeting CD20 target, which has the potential to provide access to higher
efficacy B-cell therapy for a broad RMS patient population. We believe taking a medicine that is
highly efficacious, moving it subcutaneous to give patients full flexibility, the potential to avoid
having to go regularly in for a lengthy intravenous infusion process will be welcomed by providers
and by patients and could potentially allow the more broad use of B-cell depleting agents in RMS.
I also wanted to remind the group of the data profile that we have for ofatumumab where we
know that with the loading dose we've taken in to the Phase III program, 60 milligrams q12 dosing
to start, we see very rapid B-cell depletion and you can see that in the attached graph. Then what
we expect is with monthly dosing, we can maintain that B-cell depletion and hopefully avoid some
of the rebound that you might see in drugs that are dosed less frequently, especially towards the
end of the therapy timing. So we wouldn't want to see that re-bounce. We believe monthly
dosing will hopefully keep those B-cells down. On the flip side, we know that when we stop
therapy, the B-cell repletion will happen in case safety signals are seen. So we think it could be a
positive both from an efficacy and a safety standpoint and ultimately, of course, the data will tell
us. So we'll look forward to provide that, a data to you later this year and hopefully bring
something to patients that's flexible, self-administered and provides an improved overall profile.
So moving to slide 20, now I just wanted to say a word as well about Fevipiprant, our oral DP2
agent to tackle severe asthma. Just as a reminder, on the left hand side, our goal here is to
address the so-called treatment gap in severe asthma. We know that there are 3.4 million
patients in GINA 3 moderate patients who are in inhaled therapy. But many of these patients
progress and need something beyond their inhale therapeutic, but we know there is only
120,000 patients on biologics, which leaves a significant gap of 3 million patients either with high
EOS or All Comers, they need a better option to enable them to be in control of their asthma
before potentially meeting a biologic or perhaps in lieu of a biologic. We have a sizable Phase III
program of five separate studies. LUSTER 1 & 2 looks at exacerbations. We have endpoint there
that tries to put us in line with the exacerbations reduction seen with biologics. We have ZEAL 1 &
2 that target lung function and then we have the SPIRIT trial that's looking at safety. So we'll look
forward to providing you additional data. ZEAL 1 & 2, we would expect the data release in Q4 and
LUSTER 1 & 2 in Q1 of 2020.
So lastly I wanted to just introduce we have here in the room, `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, who has
been appointed President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals. She is of course a member of our
Executive Committee. We're thrilled to have her. She has 25 years of experience in pharma and
biotech including lengthy period at Celgene. And most importantly for us, she is a purpose-driven
leader who lives the culture we're trying to build at the company every day, our unbiased inspired
curious culture. She joined us in 2017, held a few different roles and we look forward to supporting
her with great success here at Novartis Pharmaceuticals.
So, thank you very much and I'll hand it over to Harry for some more details on the financials.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Vas. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. My comments refer to the
continued operations results and growth rates are in constant currencies unless otherwise noted.
So, Slide 23 shows the summary of our quarter two and first half continuing operations
performance. In quarter two, sales grew 8%, mainly driven by continued momentum of Cosentyx
and Entresto and our Oncology growth drivers including Lutathera, TafMek, Promacta, Kisqali and
Kymriah. Core operating income and core EPS both grew 20%, mainly driven by higher sales and
productivity, partly offset by growth investments. On free cash flow, we had $3.6 billion, up 11%,mainly driven by the strong operating performance and divestment proceeds from the sale of
our Klybeck site here in Basel. These positive cash flows were partly offset by OTC joint venture
dividends, which we received for the last time in quarter two 2018. Net income in the quarter for
continuing operations was $2.1 billion and $4 billion in the first half. The decline you see here on
this reported net income numbers versus prior year is due to the $5.7 billion OTC joint venture
divestment gain we recorded in quarter two of last year.
On Slide 24, you see the quarter two core margin by division. Continuing operations margin
improved by about 3% points in the quarter and first half, driven by Innovative Medicines division.
The Innovative Medicines strong sales leverage and productivity were the key drivers of the
margin expansion while with sales growing 9%, we are expanding margin while still increasing
investments in our key growth drivers and pre-launches. There were also a couple of favorable
one-time items this quarter in the IM core margin, pre-launch inventory provision releases after
the regulatory approvals of Zolgensma and Piqray contributed about 1 margin point. The
continued Diovan and Exforge growth due to generics valsartan supply shortages contributed
about half a margin point. So the total innovative Medicines margin improved 370 basis points to
35.4% of the sales. If we exclude the one-time effects described earlier, the Innovative Medicines
margin would have been around 34% of sales. Sandoz improved by 140 basis points to margin
and this was driven by sales growth, positive product and geographic mix, productivity, and cost
discipline as we continued Sandoz transformation.
On to Slide 25, so in light of this very strong first half performance, we are revising upwards our
2019 full year guidance. For the new focused medicines company, net sales are revised upwards,
expected to grow mid-to-high-single-digit, core operating income revised upwards, expected to
grow low-double digit to mid teens. And from a divisional perspective, we revise Innovative
Medicines sales guidance upwards to grow mid-to-high single-digit. And the Sandoz sales
guidance is also revised upwards to broadly in line to a low single-digit growth. We now also
expect, just a word on the tax rate, our full year core tax rate to be in line with what you see on
the half one core tax rate of 16.4%. The increase both versus the previous years as well as versus
our original 16% is driven by some profit mix changes.
On Slide 26, I want to talk through some of the dynamics for the first and expected dynamics for
the second half of 2019. Clearly, the half one performance was very strong with core operating
income growing 19%. This was mainly driven by the continued sales momentum of our growth
drivers as well as ongoing productivity programs. We of course expect these to continue in the
second half. In the first half, we also benefited as mentioned earlier from valsartan competitor
supply shortages, which resulted in double-digit growth for Diovan and Exforge. We call that this
supply issue and Diovan Exforge growth started in quarter three of 2018 and may stop at any
time. Hence also in quarter three, we begin to lap the growth in the base from this valsartan
situation. As we look at the second half, we are expecting potential increased generics
headwinds, particularly on Afinitor, Exjade and some older ophtha brands. Furthermore, we
continue to monitor generic activities on Sandostatin LAR. Now as discussed on the quarter one
call, we were expecting these generic headwinds early in the year, basically in quarter two. There
is of course the potential that we continue to see less generic headwinds than expected also in
quarter three. In that case, if that situation would come up, I would assume that we end the year
2019 at the higher end of our full year core operating income guidance. But it's a bit too early to
tell and I'm sure we will discuss this topic again at the quarter three call.
On Slide 27, you see how currencies would impact our results if mid-July rates prevail for the
remainder of 2019. The full-year impact on sales would be a negative 3% and on core operating
income would be a negative 4%. And as you know, every month we update the expectedAnd with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So just [Technical Issues] and so in conclusion, a very strong first half to 2019.
And when you take a step back over the last 18 months as a company, we've been able to do
over $60 billion of transactions to transform the company. We've set five priorities in place to truly
drive performance starting with culture and innovation and it's starting to pay-off we believe;
strong sales and margin expansion, double-digit core operating income growth, the innovation
pipeline is really kicking in, catalyst-rich second half and we look forward to continue to keep you
updated in the second half of the year.
So with that, I'll open it up for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of
America. Please ask your question. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. So, the first on Zolgensma and the $100 million inventory
provision. Is that indicative of your expectations for a quarter or perhaps the second half of the
year. Just trying to get a feel for what sort of inventory you would have built prior to launch?
And secondly on label expansion with the SPR1NT data, could you just give us some timelines
when you expect to meet with FDA and why do you think the 2H filing on the back of that still
remains possible and similar for the strong data on in the intrathecal filing as well?
And then thirdly on both PARAGON and the ofatumumab data you submitted both for medical
conferences. You flagged that you don't have a data in-house yet on PARAGON, but would you
issue a headline press release on the data when it comes or do we have to wait for ESC? And a
similar question for ofatumumab. ASCLEPIOS is submitted for ECTRIMS and do you have data in-
house there or should we expect a headline press release somewhat imminently?
And then final on Gilenya, and just can you give us an update on where you are with your Mylan
judgment and preliminary injunction and whether the API win that you had you think strengthens
your hand in settlement negotiations with Generics now? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham. So on Zolgensma, $100 billion provision, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Graham, for the question. So we basically -- from an IFRS standpoint we basically
expense or write-down immediately any production of product that is not yet approved. It
happens on every product and then once approval is there, the inventory basically gets written up
and there's inventory provision release. Now in this quarter we got two products approved,
Zolgensma and Piqray, and therefore had roughly $100 million north inventory provisionally
released in OIE where you see it. That happened last time I think. Usually this happens and you
don't even notice this much, it's smaller numbers. Last time this was a large number was severalproducts what has been produced over the -- since on AveXis since we acquired and is of course
also showing that production is going extremely well and we are ready to supply many, many
patients with it.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And does not necessarily indicate anything about sales expectations, I think that --
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
No, I mean I would not. First of all, we -- of course this is a product that has long shelf life so -- and
production of course is important and we want to make sure that we are ready to supply any
sales scenario.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And I would say also on Zolgensma production, it's going well. We have in addition to our
Chicago, North Carolina facility acquired a facility in Colorado. This year we'll have ample capacity
up to 1,000 patients plus and then we'll plan to expand capacity there going forward. Now with
respect to the SPR1NT and STRONG study, so SPR1NT is now technically covered by our existing
label, the treatment of patients in the presymptomatic phase. So, we plan to present updates on
that data per the slide I think at WMS and -- but it wouldn't affect our filing. Now with respect to
STRONG, our plan is to go to the FDA in Q3 and hopefully come to an agreement on a filing
strategy. If there was agreement, we would aspire to file before the end of this year. Now moving
to PARAGON and Ofa, John?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Graham, thanks for the question. And you know we have a very rich second half of the year
with data readouts in Entresto for PARAGON, ofatumumab, as well as fevi. As Vas said earlier, we
don't have any data in hand. We're obviously very excited about seeing the data in the very near
future. We're going to look at these case by case and evaluate whether we will issue press
releases moving forward. But what I will say is that we've had to submit some of the abstracts for
example for Entresto for PARAGON to the ESC so that we could hold a late breaking session at
ESC. So moving forward, we'll be looking for and evaluating these case by case basis.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. And then lastly on Gilenya, we do not expect any launch of a generic Gilenya in 2019. And
this is in part because as you know, Novartis was granted a motion for preliminary injunction which
prohibits any generic manufacturers in that case from launching Gilenya until the decision on the
patent, which at the earliest would be in March 2020. So we do -- we expect a potential appeal
decision in early 2020, but right now our focus is on vigorously defending the dosage patent and
protecting Gilenya for as long as possible. So thanks, Graham. Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC from Wolfe Research. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Thank you. In my opinion, the two most important readouts for Novartis through the rest of the
year are PARAGON-HF and QAW trials and there's reasons to be cautious with both of those.With PARAGON, no one succeeded yet giving a label for HF test and then for QAW, there's been
lots of prior failed attempts at that class of drugs. So of those two programs, if you had to pick
one with the higher odds of success on delivering Phase III results that are positive, which would it
be?
And then second question is on Cosentyx. About a year ago or so, you guys had kind of re-priced
the brand in the US to try to get more first-line biologic usage in psoriasis ahead of TNFs and I'm
wondering how that has evolved and played out and if you can just talk about the evolution of
your first-line biologic usage due to that repricing strategy?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tim. Well, I will let John go his pick and then maybe I'll think about my pick. Go ahead,
John.
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Thanks, Tim. If I had to pick one versus the other, I would say there is a differential about 0.1%
difference perhaps if I had to differentiate between the two, but this is my own personal
subjective opinion which is I would say PARAGON perhaps has a 0.1% chance higher likelihood of
success. As you know, there has been numerous trials that have failed in heart failure with
preserved ejection fraction and currently there is no treatment for this population of patients.
We've learned from some of the trials that have been conducted in the past and we've actually
incorporated those learnings into our trial for PARAGON. So, success in PARAGON really is based
on what we have for a primary endpoint, combination of CV mortality with hospitalizations,
whether that would be first-time hospitalizations or recurrent hospitalization. So, we're excited
about it and we're looking forward to seeing those results. Now in terms of fevi, I wouldn't say it's
a lower likelihood of success. It's just I think that asthma is such an unmet -- significant unmet
medical need and currently we have the biologics and there's really no oral treatments beyond
your current inhalers. So, we have a very extensive and comprehensive clinical program that we
call VIBRANT with close to 5,000 patients. But if I had to pick one of the two, it might be slightly
higher, but it would almost be on par-on-par. So, I'll defer to Vas to see if there's any other
comments.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
No. I mean, the only thing I'd add on QAW fevipiprant. Just to remind that the key insight here
was to shift the DP2s into more severe patient population. So, we saw a positive result in Phase II
presented at ERS a few years ago in patients with high eosinophils. The class has been explored
in the past, but have been explored in GINA 3 or less so far less severe patients. And so we
believe that with the profile of the medicine, it's good penetration of the relevant tissues as well
as the eosinophil reductions we saw in that Phase II study that's what really gave us confidence. In
terms of Cosentyx in first-line biologic use in the US, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So first of all, it's great to be back. It's a great time to be back in pharma. What I would say is that
the performance for Cosentyx has played out as expected after last year's access wins. So, we're
very happy with that. We do remain confident that we will maintain our Number 1 and Number 2
position in our major markets. We see very strong underlying demand and that is because of
Cosentyx's unique profile that does address manifestations beyond skin. We also believe we've
got the most robust data and that will continue. We're also presenting further data later this year;for example, prevent and non-radiographic axial SpA. We're very confident in the future of
Cosentyx in both derm and wound indications.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe if I would just add on the first-line here, we believe that it was the right strategy to get to
the first-line because I think the data supported it, but also from a payer perspective it put us in a
strong position. I know there's a lot of focus on the entrants -- some of the new entrants coming
in and I think at least what Q2 showed is we were able to hold our own on formulary positioning
thus far and that's going to have to be our focus going forward to ensure we keep growing share
and leading the market in the years to come. But we're on it and we believe it will remain -- and
continue to believe that first-line usage and keeping in the first-line is critical. Thanks, Tim. Next
question?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs of Goldman Sachs. Please ask your question.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Good afternoon. And two questions please. The first one for Vas and then for Harry.
Vas, you described the launch for Zolgensma as being very strong and good demand. Can you
give us some sense for how many patients have you actually treated so far. Is it kind of single-
digit, is it double-digits. How should we think about that?
And then secondly, Harry, kind of in your remarks about the differences between the first half and
the second half, you alluded to the fact that if there was going to be lower generic impact than
you expect, you would get to the higher end of the range you have just issued. Given you have
delivered 19% core operating income growth in the first half, it would be difficult mathematically
for you to get to anywhere other than the midpoint of the range even if you were to get a lot of
generic competition given the guidance you've given on Afinitor. So what would it take for you to
go above the range and why isn't that more likely? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Keyur. So first on Zolgensma, we're not going to give any specific numbers. So what I
would say is, we're seeing strong demand in terms of Rxs coming into the hub, which is I think the
first marker we were looking for and that study week on week and that's what we wanted to see
and it's in line with our plan. We're seeing good conversion of those Rxs through the system
whether it's in Medicaid or in private pairs ultimately into approvals either the medical exception
process or getting policies in place and then ultimately shipping the medicine and getting the
patients treated, which is when we ultimately recognized sales. So we're looking at all three. We
have a great team on it. I think I personally are involved in many elements of this. So I think when
we say it's on plan, I think it's exactly what mean it's where we wanted it to be. We have a lot of
work to do, but we're happy with where we are.
Now with respect to second half, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Keyur, we have great momentum, no question. So the first half has been great and we do
expect that the key growth drivers continue to do, productivity programs continue to go slightly
or ahead of expectations. The generic impact we start seeing some, there is Stelara coming inOf course we will vigorously defend all of our products, but that starts a bit and of course the
inventory provision release will not to this magnitude happen again. The second impact I don't
want to chock-down second half year, but we saw the acceleration of our sales momentum in the
second half of last year and also when you compare half two margins, last year versus half one,
already an increase of the margins last year. So we have also a bit of a base effect, but we expect
continued good performance and just mainly generics in addition to some of this base effect,
basically is the unknown.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator? Thanks, Harry.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi of Citi. Please ask your question.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. First question is, I note that you provisioned $700 million in relation with DOJ case
related to Diovan. Given your Chief Legal Counsel is on the call, perhaps you might care to talk to
any anticipated changes to your Corporate Integrity Agreement in terms of the addition of any
onerous impact in your marketing activities going forward?
Second on Zolgensma. Historically, Novartis has provided -- guided a full year for their newly
launched products, I'm thinking of Entresto and Cosentyx. I wonder whether you might be
(inaudible) in this case?
And then finally, I know you're not exposed to government plan anywhere near as much as some
of your peers, but I also remember Vas that you enthusiastically embraced the proposed rebate
performance mainly for patients and by influenced for the industry. Now that's no longer in place,
we're interested to hear your thoughts on how you assess the risk for US reimbursement in
pricing given the pressures from both sides of the aisle anytime?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Andrew. So first on the provision. I will answer the question. We've taken the legal
provision of about $700 million related to the Southern District case. We've taken the provision in
the context of the ongoing settlement discussions. I think you could understand, we can't
comment further as the discussions are ongoing. And once we have a further update, we will of
course provide it, but I don't want to pre-speak against those negotiations.
Now with respect to providing full year guidance, I can't recall what we did when, but I think with
Zolgensma, we're focused on getting the fundamentals in place, getting a very strong launch and
getting as many patients as possible in the -- let's call it the prevalent pool, patients who are not
newly diagnosed and trying to get all of the patients that are newly diagnosed if we can. So we're
not going to give any guidance, but anyway you will see it all in Q3 and I can say we feel very
good with where we are and we feel good with the trajectory that we're seeing thus far.
Lastly on -- with respect to the US government policy, certainly the environment is very fluid. You
can imagine we need to stay very close to it. Very difficult for us to predict between the executive
branch and between the various proposals between the committees in the Senate, which ones
will ultimately prevail or if they come in the end to a full legislative vote. So hard to comment on
specifics, it's also hard to comment on specifics because we haven't actually seen on paper anyremained supportive of many of the reforms whether that's around transparency, whether that's
around some of the elements addressed by the CREATES Act, enabling stronger access to
biosimilars, reforming Part C, thinking about out of patient caps in Part D. I mean, all of these
things are the things we are open and supportive of. But until we see something concretely on
paper, it's difficult to say and difficult to really determine how any of this will progress. So we will
look forward with you to get more updates as the year progresses.
I would want to highlight that we are of very low exposure relative to our peer group and we are
amongst the leaders ex-US in the world in medicines, depending on how you look at a number
one in Europe and amongst the leaders around the world. In the US, we are low exposed to
these government programs relative to our peers, so that also I think creates a positive relative
situation for us.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies & Company from Jefferies. Please ask your question.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies & Company `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Got a few quick ones. Firstly, just for Harry on the margin. We
all know obviously the Innovative Medicines margin long-term, again it basically would go to
around mid 30%. Just curious as to whether or not we should think of that now as being
conservative or should we think of that be likely to be hit sooner. I guess, I'm asking, is it likely that
potentially stack vacancies, conservative number where we can like to go ahead of that or is it
more likely that mid 30% will just be achieved before the initial 2022 guidance?
Just secondly then on Piqray. You mentioned that the sales force of Zolgensma and Mayzent
could be disclosed in the third quarter, but there was no mention of Piqray. Should we be taking
that I guess to mean that Piqray with the companion diagnostic is going to take longer for sales to
build or should be also exit this space for further visibility on Piqray during the quarter? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So on the margin, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Peter. So I mean, as we all know quarterly margins are also a bit volatile. So for example,
last year quarter three we had a 34% margin. We ended the year at 32% and we made good
progress in 2017, 31% last year, 32%. Now if you take bit of the one-timers out, first half, we are in
the range of 33% to 34%. So good progress. Now could we achieve on a full year basis a bit
earlier, we have to see. Two or three big components I would say that will determine that. One is
the (inaudible) that is of course a big piece. We are confident, but of course from when we gave
mid 30% guidance was not part of it, so that would certainly be helpful and a potential upside as
it holds longer than that and we will do everything that it would, but too early to update our
guidance. And the other element is of course how the launches are doing and we have many of
them. Good progress overall. And I think what I'm highly confident about is how our productivity
efforts are progressing, that's fully in our own control and was part of our I would say over
delivery in the first half already, but of course the first two elements I described, we have to see
how it develops over the next quarters.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then on PIK rates, Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, Chief Executive Officer of Novartis Oncology `
Peter, as Mayzent Zolgensma is no different in terms of disclosure for Piqray as Vas said, we are
off to a very solid start, as you know Piqray is approved together as a companion diagnostic for
PIK3CA mutation testing from Qiagen and both of that is already included in the NCCN
guidelines. We are engaging with payers covering 80% of the target population and as we
emphasized last time obviously focus is on testing because that's the condition for Piqray treating
and we have to say that testing is going up and we expect this to continue .
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susanne Thanks, Peter. Next question?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen and Company from Cowen. Please ask your question.
Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Thank you. I have a few. First on Zolgensma. Based on the strong reception in the market, it
would seem an average of 5 to 10 patients could be put on the drug per week in Q3. Would you
like to take this opportunity to suggest that expectation is too aggressive, too conservative or are
you unsure? All of your comments on the call so far have been plural patients Rxs plans contracts.
So based on what you've said, it would seem like that would be a good range.
Second, if PARAGON is a clear success or clear failure, wouldn't you have to issue a top line
release before ESC, so no top-run line release implies fuzzy data at ESC.
And then lastly, what are some reasons why Mayzent cannot duplicate Gilenya's first year sales,
which were nearly $0.5 billion given a superior profile and label? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve. Always well-phrased questions from Steve. And on Zolgensma, unfortunately I
can't provide specifics on patients per week. I think what we would say is we are in the plurals of
the range on all of the things you mentioned and so we continue to see very solid uptake and we
are seeing that uptake every week. And so I think it's been positive every week in terms of
patients, every week in terms of plans, every week plans in terms of policies and every week as
well in terms of contracting. So good momentum and we'll look forward to sharing the sales in
quarter three. In terms of the PARAGON topline release, John?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Thanks, Steve. I have had a chance to look at various clinical trials, especially the large ones
and cardiovascular clinicals, we've seen that results are sometimes difficult to interpret because it
takes longer for us to either look at subgroups or sometimes there are secondary endpoints that
we need to understand. So it would be great if it were clear and it would be great if it were
clearly positive and I think that would be a very easy decision for us to move forward. Butobviously, it really depends on the results that we see and we do have some secondary
endpoints as well as some sub-study. So we'll have to await what those are.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then lastly on Mayzent, Marie-France, you want to just take that?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Sure, Vas. Thanks. So the first thing I would say is that the physicians haven't identified patients so
far with SPMS because there has been no medicine in the marketplace. So as we've said before,
this year is all about education. I can give you some data on where we are with the launch. As you
know it is the only product proven to delay disability in active SPMS patients, the awareness is
high. We've got more than 90% of neurologists willing to prescribe. Even in my own personal
conversations with physicians, there is a lot of appreciation for the expand data. They need a
treatment for this patient population. We've also seen a lot of progress in access over 70 million
lives with preferred access, but we really need to focus on patient identification, creating a sense
of urgency. At the end, we're very confident in the long-term potential of Mayzent, but this year is
all about education.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Next question?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Anlayst, Societe Generale S.A. from Societe Generale. Please ask
your question. Your line is open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Anlayst, Societe Generale S.A. `
Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my questions. Three quick ones. First on
Entresto. What is behind the sequential acceleration of the sales, mainly in Europe, is it the
guidance or your recommendations. And I was just wondering what could be the trigger to see
such acceleration on the US market?
Second question on Beovu. And can you give us more color on your US commercial operations as
your competitors are quite strong and well-established there. And if you have maybe some
flexibility to even further expand your US operations on ophthalmology?
And my last question is on Sandoz. So the Division growth is back into positive territories. And do
you see some improvement in some areas or is there any base effect. And is this better
performance sustainable? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great, thanks. First on Entresto acceleration, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So we see very strong momentum overall and this is really due to underlying demand. Obviously
the PIONEER data has opened up a new patient segment for us in the in-hospital initiation. And
we're very confident with the momentum we're seeing across geographies, not only in Europe, in
the US, but I can also say that China is off to a good start. Obviously the ESC Heart Failurepatients has been very useful for us and a real endorsement of the product. We're confident
Entresto is becoming standard of care across the Board, so we will continue to see strong
momentum, as I said, worldwide.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And then lastly on Beovu. We've I think a really strong commercial team. We've been
able to attract some excellent talent with deep experience in retinal disease and launching retinal
medicines. We have a field force fully deployed and ready. We have an excellent MSL team that's
been out now for some time, educating physicians on the data. We have good plans in place with
respect to contracting, particularly given how the medicine is given in buy and bill model. We have
been working a lot on our patient hub to ensure that we are ready to go and make it seamless
and easy for our physicians to get patients onto the medicine. So we got all I think the elements
in place ready to go. Also ex-US as well, we are gearing up well for the RTH at the Beovu launch.
So overall, we feel like we're in a good place. I would say that for all our launches, we have an
executive level review with our leadership team and deep ownership at the executive team level
to make sure that we are doing the best we can to get all the details right on these upcoming
launches.
Thanks, Florent. Next question? Sandoz, sorry Sandoz growth. Yes, of course. So Sandoz, we are
pleased by the Q2 performance. When you look at it, it was primarily driven by strong
performance outside the US, a mix of mostly strong bio-similar performance but also I would say
our core generics business with some recent launches such as fulvestrant and a few others
continues to do overall do well. So we're very proud with how Sandoz is performing ex-US. Within
the US, our team continues to work hard in what is a challenging environment. If you take out
certain one-time effects, you would see that in the US, the base business continues to have
declines in the mid teens, consistent with what we've seen in past quarters. So we haven't seen
yet a stabilization in that core Gx business in the US. I think in the US, the key will be our upcoming
launches, which we hope will be of pegfilgrastim potentially as well, our inhaled generics as well
as some of the injectable launches we have upcoming. And if those go well, we hope to also
have the US contribute. So going forward, we felt comfortable raising the guidance to in line to
low single digit based on that momentum that we're seeing really outside the US.
Thank you. Next question?
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Anlayst, Societe Generale S.A. `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please ask your
question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. Just a few quick ones please. Harry, you said that you were looking at Sandostatin LAR
generics in Europe. I wonder if you could tell us which countries the product has been approved in
and what you expect the timeline for that to be moving into perhaps bigger more important
countries and potentially into the US?
On the Gilenya situation, could you tell us whether you're still accruing royalties to Mitsubishi
Tanabe, their changing guidance earlier this year suggests that they are not being paid sinceFebruary. So is that an extra benefit that this product is now even more profitable for you?
On Zolgensma, I wonder if you could just tell us a little bit about how you're progressing ex-US?
You say that you've treated somebody in France, but when do you think we'll actually be able to
see paying customers outside of US?
And finally for Harry, you mentioned the tax rate going up because of the mix effects to over 16%,
does that mix effect keep going? Should we now be looking at something above 15% for medium
term tax rate? Many thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jo. So on Sandostatin, Susanna?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, Chief Executive Officer of Novartis Oncology `
Yeah. Sandostatin. And let me share the facts that we have. That is one generic company that has
recently received marketing authorization in the EU via decentralized procedure and they are now
start getting national ratifications for their local marketing authorizations. We know that there are
several countries where they already achieved that like UK, Denmark, Germany and we see some
first limited commercial activities. On the US, we are closely monitoring the situation and we will
keep you updated of information in case we have.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I think one reminder on Sandostatin is this is a unique medicine setting, it's given, and so I
think when you think about when and if generic start to come in, one generic starts to come in,
you would really have to model your erosion curves, similar to what you see with biologics and
with very limited competition. I mean that's what our expectation at the moment in all
geographies.
Next on Gilenya, Mitsubishi, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Jo, all I can say, I don't know where some of your statements come from, but we are still
paying and accruing royalties for Gilenya to Mitsubishi Tanabe in accordance through contractual
terms and agreement with them. So we keep paying and we keep growing.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then in terms of Zolgensma ex-US, first to clarify, the patients we reference from the French
ATU or from the named-patient program are fully paid patients. So these are paid patients by the
-- either by self or by the relevant government in the case of France. In terms of when we would
expect approval, as I said in the presentation, we are targeting approval before the end of this
year. I think the planning assumption you should have seen Q4 of this year is when we expect to
get European Commission, okay and be able to launch the medicine.
In terms of tax rate, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you for the question on tax rate, Jo, because often a bit -- it's a complex topic and
sometimes overlooked topic, but it's also hard to forecast. So we had a slight increase from 16%developments. As you know, the Swiss Tax Reform got approved on for us here in the Basel City
cantonal level and federal level, which is excellent, because that gives us very good planning
security and a very large part of our operations, we have huge substance as you know, in
Switzerland, with our 10,000 plus associates, many manufacturing sites as well as R&D and our
headquarters, many of them are here. So very positive development there that takes away
uncertainty. That's great. And we have overall a very attractive tax rate. Now of course the tax
environment is getting since years more and more difficult, we have been able to maintain an
attractive tax rate. And I also expect, as we continue to maintain an attractive tax rate probably
mid-term in the range between 16% and 17.5%. To be more precise than that we usually do year-
by-year, but I expected over the years, we continue to have a very attractive tax rate.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Thanks, Harry. Thank you, Joe. Next question, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim. Please ask your
question in line is now open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks very much for the question. So just a couple here. Can you guys talk a little bit about
Cosentyx and the directional performance there. Just looks like you're coming in somewhat
below in the US relative to script trends. Just wanted to get a better sense of how the mix of
impacts there were coming in whether it will be some inventory effect, direct price negotiations
impacts relative to formulary access or perhaps just the donut hole impact.
The second question, just wanted to get a general sense of the performance of your Humira
generic or biosimilar in I assume presumably, most of that performance came in European
markets. Can you just give us a general qualitative sense if you can't give us the exact sales. Just
trying to get a sense of how the penetration is going for that product?
And then the last question, in terms of the expectations for PARAGON, John, you mentioned that
there are always things with regard to large clinical studies like this that we have to be careful
about and think about maybe could you just give us a general sense of what you would
characterize you said a clean win, how would you characterize a clean win? And then what are
some of the aspects that you think kind of complicate an evaluation of a large study like
PARAGON whether it'd be different regional dynamics that we've seen become an issue and a
number of studies or other factors? Thanks a lot.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Seamus. First on Cosentyx. I'll just quickly take that one. In terms of what we saw there
was a small difference in terms of sales versus script trends that was primarily driven by small bit
of inventory mostly it's RDs which were just related to formulary access. But in general, right now
we're seeing sales volume trend with RX scripts and there is nothing that we would say is
important to flag with respect to Cosentyx momentum in the US across indications. With respect
to adalimumab in Europe, I think there is a number of generic entrants who have come to market
in adalimumab, which means that it's a, of course competitive marketplace. We have to our
experience seen solid uptake of the adalimumab biosimilars whether through tenders or in other
ways. When you look at our add-up penetration in Europe overall versus the originator, it's around
22%. We estimate we're ranked Number 3 amongst biosimilars players by the best data we canget. We're very proud of our performance particularly in rituximab where we face less
competition as well as in (inaudible) receptor, which is I think a little more favorable situation for us
relative to the competition.
With respect to PARAGON endpoints, John?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Thanks Seamus for the question regarding PARAGON. As you know, what I said earlier, the
success would be really based on the primary endpoint and the primary endpoint being CV
mortality and hospitalization, what we know about heart failure with preserved ejection fraction is
that the burden really is around hospitalizations and re-hospitalizations for these patients. So for
us, what we think would be success really is dependent on this hospitalizations or sometimes a
subsequent readmission into the hospital. So that's something that we're looking at very closely
and knowing that you know this is a significant burden for that population of patients.
Now regarding your second part of the question on what are some of the things we're looking at
for perhaps secondary endpoints or sub-studies and you had specifically mentioned, are there
regional differences. We have looked at some of the previous studies looking at regional
recruitment, particularly in the Eastern European countries and we think we've factored that into
our study. We have less than 5% from Russia and Georgia where you know in one of the previous
studies where there were some questions around that. So we think we've taken that into
consideration. But thinking about some of the other perhaps sub-studies we're looking at, we do
have a cognitive sub-study, looking at cognitive impacts. What I will say is that as we look at the
overall adverse event reporting, we haven't seen and as well as the patient experience from
spontaneous reports because Entresto has been used, we've not seen any signals and the
current spontaneous adverse events, but obviously we need to see the results of the cognitive
sub-study to be able to tell for sure. So these are some of the things that we take into
consideration for the trial.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I know. I think overall with PARAGON, I think the key thing to remember, as we get to the final
studies we look very closely at past history. We studied very closely how the past studies were
conducted. We tried to manage as best we could. We tried to also ensure we use the repeat
hospitalizations for the composite endpoint along with CV death for the composite primary
endpoint. And then we try to also leverage our Phase II study, which showed both significant
decreases in NT-proBNP as well as atrial remodeling. So all of that taken together makes us feel
like we've conducted study in the best possible way to give us a chance of success. But then in
the end, the science will ultimately tell us.
Okay. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG from Deutsche Bank. Please ask your
question, your line is now open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. This is `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG from Deutsche Bank. First question on
gross margin within Innovative Medicines. I think you previously said the flat year-on-year gross
margin for the full year would be a good guide, but you had a very strong second quarter. Andthen I just wondered how we should think about that there is anything specific in Q2 gross margin
and should the new launches be a positive to gross margin offsetting maybe some of the impact
from the generic launches? So that's the first question.
The second question is on Lutathera. I think sequential quarter-on-quarter growth slowed a bit. So
I just wondered if there are any special effects there and whether you could discuss the longer-
term growth prospects for that franchise? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So first on gross margin, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Gross margin is a bit hard to predict. As you know, our gross margin started to increase
quite significantly driven by the productivity programs and favorable mix in the second half of last
year. So whilst I continue to see good gross margins for the second half, probably improvement
versus prior year's second half is expected not to be as much. Now a lot depends on the product
mix, as you know, depends on some of the products with higher cost of goods progressing
versus the ones that have either no royalty burden and very high gross margins. So hard to
predict, but I think it just hopefully heads bridge with the modeling that probably works prior year
half too, I would not assume such a significant improvement.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I just want to add. I mean, overall our transformation of our manufacturing is progressing
really, really nicely. Whether you look at our improvements in yields and improving production
performance in our facilities, the optimization of our planned footprint around the world, the use
of new technologies, we had set up to really transform our manufacturing engine at the company.
I think you're seeing now the impacts of all of that work in the gross margin.
Susanne on Lutathera?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, Chief Executive Officer of Novartis Oncology `
Yeah. Thank you, Richard for the questions. So on Lutathera, we had another strong quarter,
reaching $109 million and the majority of sales are still coming from the US. And you're right,
Richard, that growth rates in the US slightly declined in Q2 and the main reason is really that major
Tier 1 centers have now worked through their prevalence pool, really patients on the waiting list
that were mostly in late-line. So what we are focusing now on is really positioning Lutathera as the
preferred second-line treatment and we expect really further continued growth. We remain very
confident on Lutathera and we also expect now sales coming in from ex-US. We make nice
progress in receiving reimbursement approvals recently got approval for reimbursement in Spain
and Italy. We got all the regulatory approval in Switzerland and in Israel. So we remain very, very
confident with Lutathera that it has potential for blockbuster sales and will continue to grow
strongly.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Susanne. Next question, operator. And if the remaining people in the queue
could try to limit themselves with one question and maybe not so many parts to the one
question, we only have a limited amount of time left. So please, next question?Next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Please ask your question.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Well then, thanks. Thanks for taking my question. So one question on China and the impact from
the four plus seven tenders, please. Just thinking about I think Gleevec is mentioned and there
have been some tenders there, but maybe thinking about the impact on Diovan in the next
quarter, how should we think about that?
And maybe if I can ask one second question. Just on SEG101, how are you expecting that to be
used? You see it being used primarily in patients who have had a vaso-occlusive crisis or how
should we think about that? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Richard. So on China in general, we are focused very much on our launch medicines.
We're focused on moving out of the historical established medicines business. Given the number
of recent approvals we have had, we've had double-digit approvals, double digit
reimbursements. Entresto is doing well, Cosentyx is off to a strong start. Our new oncology
medicines are off to a strong start. So our focus is very much in driving the new launches. We do
expect in due course these tenders to impact our legacy established medicines business
primarily Gleevec and Valsartan containing medicines. To-date, these tenders have not started at
a significant scale on the specific medicines for a variety of reasons. So at the moment, it's not a
significant impact. Even when it comes, we expect that our launch should more than offset the
impact of the four plus seven tenders, that's very much our focus on strategy. We also believe
the government is doing the right thing in shifting resources from these older medicines and
focusing on new innovation that actually fits Novartis' strategy quite well.
With respect to SEG101, Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, Chief Executive Officer of Novartis Oncology `
Yes. In terms of positioning, what we would expect really SEG101 has impressive effect on
prevention and reduction of VOCs. We could show in our data that we could reduce VOCs by
50% and that's how we would expected it to position. So patient population is probably the
patients with two or more VOCs per year, which is around 60% of the total patient population.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Susanne. And our next question, operator? Thank you, Richard. Next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Michael Leacock, Analyst, MainFirst Group from MainFirst. Please ask your
question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Michael Leacock, Analyst, MainFirst Group `
Well, thank you. Two very quick questions. On Entresto, any update in terms of reimbursement
timing in China? And you mentioned on Xiidra that there was a lack of progress of uncertainty of
its ownership. Could the same apply to Aimovig?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `So I'll start with Xiidra and then come back on Entresto. So right now with respect to Aimovig, we
think there is clarity in the field for us and we've been working together with Amgen to ensure
that any of our legal disputes do not impact the focus of the field force in the United States. I
would also say we're pleased even though it's not come up yet in the call, we're pleased with the
uptake of Aimovig outside the United States. It's been very positive, overall and we continued to
drive that.
With respect to Entresto, we're working through now reimbursement at the regional level and are
focused very much on getting an NRDL listing nationally for Entresto. We hope to achieve that in
one of the upcoming cycles. We do have a number of regions where Entresto is already now on
the listing at the regional level. But the goal very much remains to get on the national NRDL
schedule in the coming cycles.
Q - `Michael Leacock, Analyst, MainFirst Group `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please ask your
question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Hi there, thanks for taking my questions. Just on Mayzent, could you update us how you're doing?
We're setting up and implementing the CYP screening and is that adding to the inertia amongst
doctors to you've kind of mentioned the -- trying to instill some urgency in doctors. Is this kind of
adding to inertia in prescribing or switching patients to Mayzent. Thank you.
Just quickly if I can just Entresto ex-US was very strong. Just some insights, that would be helpful.
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So on Mayzent, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So with Mayzent we are using a hub system that does manage the start forms, the benefits
verification and then genotyping as well as the other lab data and then ultimately the delivery of
the product. What we do see is that the numbers in the hub are encouraging, but it is a 60-day
on-boarding plus one month free, so it's about 90 days. So we are now working to try and
accelerate that, but our initial feedback is very positive on how that's looking.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then on with respect to Entresto ex-US acceleration, Marie-France would be the right person
to ask you over Entresto.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `Yes. Well, as I mentioned before in the call, I think just the momentum is really strong all over and
the PIONEER data has just really boosted the in-hospital initiation, which has really changed the
dynamics and so overall, we've seen great performance in Europe, we've seen great
performance in the US, we are starting to see very encouraging performance in China and I just
believe that momentum will continue as we go forward and we established and trust as standard
of care.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Marie-France. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas from Exane BNP Paribas. Please ask your
question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Thank you guys. `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas and a final one from me please on Xiidra, I mean just on the slide
in your pack and you highlighted as that you are not expecting significant party access expansion
to 2021. I wonder if you can just talk through why that couldn't come earlier, beginning of next
year. And so you essentially is saying that really we should expect limited growth in Xiidra in 2020
will be primarily dependent on that commercial plan patient only. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Kerry, Marie-France on Xiidra.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Well, first of all, let me just say that we're really excited to add Xiidra to our portfolio. We think it's
a great complement to our front of the eye business and it does bridge to our pipeline. Xiidra
has got a really strong clinical profile, it's really the only product proven to reduce signs and
symptoms. Vas already mentioned the medical need and how under-diagnosed dry eye disease
is. Currently we see 1.6 million prescriptions in the market. That's 34 million. What I can say to you
is that we've got excellent commercial coverage and expanding to Part D will happen over 2021
because we're pretty much locked in for 2020. However, we do believe that there is a lot of
room to grow. Dry eye disease is promotionally sensitive. We're starting a D2C campaign in Q4.
We think it's a strong strategic fit and there is clear blockbuster potential for us in the US alone.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Marie-France. I think if you go back in time and you look at the early quarters when there
was a heavy focus on Xiidra, you saw the strong performance of this medicine. So we want to
rekindle that fire.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please ask your question.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS `Hello. Thank you. Just on Zolgensma and specifically on your Medicaid book of business. We know
that reimbursement in Medicaid is going to take much longer than in the commercial setting. But I
was just wondering if you could tell us whether your views on access and uptake in the Medicaid
environment have evolved at all over the last few weeks since you got approval? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. On Zolgensma and Medicaid, we have 4 policies now already up on Zolgensma in Medicaid. I
think it's very encouraging. I would say in terms of medical exception request thus far in Medicaid
that Novartis at least are managing through our hub. We've also seen positive responses from
Medicaid states. Our first patient actually was a Medicaid patient. And so when you look at those
narratives in general, patients are able to navigate Medicaid through medical exception. So that
gives us encouragement that even in the time it will take us to get the part of the medical policies
fully set-up, we can still work through the system and get patients treated given the demand
from the parents, the children the providers. We feel generally optimistic. We love to accelerate
getting those policies in place and our teams are working hard to do that. But as you rightly point
out, it will be longer in Medicaid versus in the private insurance segment.
Next question, operator?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Mani Foroohar, Analyst, SVB Leerink LLC from SVB Leerink. Please ask your
question. Your line is now open.
Q - `Mani Foroohar, Analyst, SVB Leerink LLC `
Okay. Thanks for taking my call. A quick question on Zolgensma. You've talked about the
attractive launch metrics you have seen that this far, but when we think about modeling in future
quarters, how should we think about time from dosage to realize reimbursement in the US versus
global markets where you're going to be launching. Do you expect that to be relatively swift or
should we expect the payment over-time dynamic you've talked in the past to come into play as
you launch OUS across different markets?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So you know with respect to the payment over-time, it's important to know we're doing this
through a third-party. So actually, what we do is we recognize revenue immediately and then take
a provision for our estimate of whether or not we would need to have any sort of rebate at
sometime over the period that we ultimately contract for. So you shouldn't model any lag. As
Harry guided last time, it's really revenue recognition at the time of dosing. Today, because it's
very early days. We don't have any plans currently using these kinds of models that we continue
to work with plans in terms of contracting. It would be a similar situation we expect outside the
United States as far as we can tell. Once we get those launches moving, we'll of course keep you
updated if you need to shift your modeling at all for ex-US patients.
Thank you for the question. Next question?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `David Maris, Analyst, Wells Fargo & Company from Wells Fargo. Please ask your question,
your line is now open.Thank you. Just a question. One of the proposals being floated is reference pricing. If you can just
address in broad strokes, what's the average selling price difference of your lead products or the
bulk of your pharma products or US versus Europe or the developed market that they're thinking
about benchmarking to? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. When you look at the proposals. You know in our experience, we have very limited
exposure in Part B, we don't have many Part B medicines. I can't really give you a specific answer
on Part B, probably better to ask some of our competitors on Part B. With respect to Part D, our
analysis suggests when you take into account rebates, other government subsidies and things
that we give patient assistance programs, re-drug, et cetera that our net pricing for our major
medicines within Part D really -- at least recently launched medicines in Part D approached those
what we see in top European countries. So we at least don't see a significant gap in Part D. I know,
from an industry-wide perspective, there's certainly a high variability within Part B and I think that's
where the focus has been.
Thank you for the questions. And then I think time for one last question before we finish the call.
So last question, please.
Operator
Your last question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays plc from Barclays. Please ask your
question, your line is now open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays plc `
Thank you. I'll try and keep it to one semi-brief question. It was just to push Harry and perhaps a
little bit of margins. You talked about potentially getting a bit earlier to that mid 30s target, you
didn't mention the possibility of us actually getting through that target and beyond. And in
particular R&D is, I mean it's been perhaps one of the areas where you most actively talked in the
past about some of that you can internally control in terms of reduction, you already out for 20%,
to what extent in the world of big data could you take it below that figure? Thank you.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks for the question, Emmanuel. In general for the company, we're trying to make the
company as productive as possible. So our goal of course is not to stop at one specific number.
But certainly focus on areas where we can become as efficient and as competitive with anyone in
our industry and it's relevant in areas like business services or procurement competitive with
anyone in any industry. Right now, our goal is to get to the mid 30s by 2022. If we get there on a
full year basis sooner, then of course we'll give you an updated perspectives on where we want
to head next on margins, but I certainly want to set the expectation, our aspirations are to be as
productive as possible.
Now with respect to R&D, we don't view R&D as the key lever to achieve this. R&D is
fundamentals of the company. We always wanted to get to that 20% range where they are now,
but we don't use R&D as our driver for margin improvement. What we want to do is ensure we
fund every good program, we do that and we ensure that we are -- and if we need to of course,
increase our R&D levels in order to fund excellent project, we'll do that. And in the medium and
longer term, if data, science, digital technologies can help us transform not only our
manufacturing and business services and sales areas, we hope it also will transform R&D. Wehope that actually gives us capacity to do more programs and we can continue to be at 20% and
do even more programs to grow the company.
So, that I think it for today's call. Thank you again for investing in Novartis, for your interest in
Novartis. We will look forward to delivering a strong second half of the year. We appreciate your
interest in the company and we wish you a great summer. Thank you.
Operator
That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.