Q3 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the SAP Quarter Three 2019 Earnings
Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the third quarter 2019. I'm joined by our new Co-
CEOs, `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer and `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer, as well as `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO, who will make
opening remarks on the call today. Also joining us for Q&A is Executive Board member Adaire
Fox-Martin, President of our Global Customer Operations; and `Ryan Smith, Chief Executive Officer, CEO of Qualtrics.
Before we get started, I would like to say a few words about forward-looking statements and our
use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that are not historical
fact are forward-looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intent, may, plan, project,
predict, should, outlook, and will, and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to
identify such forward-looking statements. SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or
revise any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The factors that could affect SAP's future financial results are discussed more fully in our recent
filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including SAP's Annual Report on Form20-F for 2018, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019. Participants of this call are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date.
On our Investor Relations website, you can find our quarterly statement and a financial summary
slide deck. Both documents are intended to supplement our prepared remarks today and include
a reconciliation from our non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers. Unless otherwise noted, all financial
numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS and growth rates and percentage point
changes are non-IFRS, as reported year-over-year. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide
should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And finally, just a reminder, today's call is focused on our Q3 earnings results. In three weeks, on
November 12, we will hold our Special Capital Markets Day in New York City, where we will
provide more color on our growth strategy and mid-term revenue and margin ambitions.
And with that, I'd like to turn things over to our Co-CEO, `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer.
`Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Stefan. Good morning, and thanks to everyone for joining today's call. First, I'd like to
thank Hasso Plattner on the Supervisory Board for their trust and honor of leading this Company
forward together with `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer as CEO. It's an honor to help write SAP's next chapter and
follow Bill.
Before I begin, I want to start with the news we learned about on Friday regarding the passing of
Mark Hurd. Mark has had a profound impact on our industry, and on behalf of all of SAP, I want to
extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Oracle community and most especially to Mark's
family and friends. You are on our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.
Now, let me dive into our Q3 performance. Today we reported strong Q3 and year-to-date
results, which Luka will detail shortly. Clearly, our experienced management vision powered by
Qualtrics is resonating with customers and a key differentiator across all aspects of the Intelligent
Enterprise. With top line accelerating and operational excellence initiatives in full swing, we're on
track to reach our full year and mid-term ambition.
Let me spend a minute on the macro. Our strong Q3 performance was achieved despite
headlines about a slowing global economy, trade wars, and political uncertainties. We had some
impact due to macro challenges, for example, in Asia and the German auto and manufacturing
sector, but even in times of uncertainty, technology investment remains a focus for every
company and our business is resilient due to the breadth of our global coverage.
Companies continue to turn to SAP to transform, to accelerate their growth organically, and
through faster M&A, to drive efficiencies, competitiveness, and successfully navigate a changing
macro and regulatory environment. Our global pipeline is robust as we head into our seasonally
strong Q4. SAP's resilience is further underpinned by more predictable revenue approaching 70%
of the mix.
Let me now highlight our strategic growth drivers in the cloud. We made a bold move with the
acquisition of Qualtrics and customers are excited about the holistic experience management
platform Qualtrics provide, in addition to what the combination of X and O data can do. We're
very pleased with Qualtrics' growth and we are starting to see the scale of SAP helping drive and
close pipelines, especially in the enterprise segment.Qualtrics had some impressive wins in Q3. Dish Networks, Slack Technologies, Akamai, U-Haul,
Sharper Image, Stanley Black & Decker, Garmin International, and many others selected Qualtrics
in Q3 to move beyond systems of record to new systems of action and achieve breakthrough
results. We continue to beat our competition in both the enterprise and volume parts of our
business. Qualtrics' volume engine is helping SAP to expand its footprint into new accounts and is
helping us open doors for other SAP Cloud solution.
We're also seeing an acceleration of our win rates against Medallia as customers are choosing
Qualtrics for its technology and analytics capability and the breadth of XM Solutions across
customer experience, employee experience, product experience, and brand experience.
With the addition of Qualtrics to SuccessFactors, we've redefined the traditional human capital
category to human experience management, or HXM. Every company needs to understand the
factors that impact employee experience, to attract and retain their talent. And since integrating
Qualtrics with the SuccessFactors suite, we've seen a tremendous demand in SuccessFactors'
customer base for Qualtrics. Since May, we've acquired over 300 customers to the Qualtrics
platform. SAPs evolution towards Human Experience Management is proving to be an accelerant
for Employee Central, which added more than a 150 customers in the quarter and has now more
than 3,500 customers globally. Competitive wins included British Telecom and Hugo Boss. And
our joint sales missions are paying dividends. Qualtrics had its largest Employee Experience deal
in history this quarter as a direct result of our joint go-to-market mission.
Some proof points for SuccessFactors. We just closed 1,000 SuccessFactors customers in APJ
and when you add China, that's another 400 customers. In Latin America, we're approaching
800. Even in mature markets like Europe, we see significant growth to over 2,800 customers. UK
and Ireland saw triple-digit new bookings growth in Q3.
We're also making great progress (inaudible) in our partner ecosystem. We announced a
partnership with Ernst & Young with EY delivering XM practices and solutions to its clients through
its People Advisory Services and its Workforce of the Future solutions. EY will also become the
first Qualtrics partner network member to adopt Qualtrics Employee Experience across their
organization of 260,000 employees, and this will combine X-data and O-data from
SuccessFactors.
In addition to accelerating SuccessFactors business in HCM, our CS business continues to benefit
with the infusion of Qualtrics across our C/4HANA portfolio. We introduced the connector
between Qualtrics to C/4HANA, the developers and partners can use to build new integration
scenarios. We're starting to see organizations combining customer feedback and operational
data to listen, understand, and act. E.ON and Brazilian retailer Swift also chose SAP C/4HANA
solutions in Q3 over our competition based on SAP's unique and compelling vision, while Petrofac
and Perfumery Douglas went live on C4.
We're continuing to invest in our customer experience portfolio. We've announced that Bob Stutz,
a leader who continued to redefine the CX arena at both Microsoft and most recently,
Salesforce, had rejoined SAP as President of Engineering and our CX business. Bob's experience
and foresight will take us to new places in the future.
Our Intelligent Spend solutions provide collaborative commerce with SAP Ariba, effortless travel
and expense processing with SAP Concur and flexible workforce management with SAP
Fieldglass. Together, they represent the largest commerce platform in the world, with more than
3.4 trillion and global commerce annually transacted in more than 180 countries. This is nearly
eight times the size of Coupa. We are making strong progress on delivering integrated spendscenarios starting with services procurement across Fieldglass and Ariba. BT, Sony Music product
and many others turned to SAP's Intelligent Spend solutions in Q3.
Specifically, Concur is starting to gain traction, especially in China, with Xiaomi as one of its
marquee customer. Another incredibly exciting announcement and key strategic driver of future
growth is our expanded relationship with Microsoft, which we call Embrace. We've listened to our
customers to help them define and accelerate their journey to SAP S/4HANA in the public cloud.
Many of our enterprise customers have chosen Azure. In response, SAP and Microsoft had
established a partnership to move on-premise SAP ERP and S/4HANA customers to the cloud,
through industry specific best practices, our joint reference architecture, and SAP Cloud delivered
services on Azure. This partnership will both accelerate and simplify customer migration to
S/4HANA on Azure.
Microsoft will bundle SAP's cloud platform services into a bundle we call Embrace. And they'll sell
these directly through their field organization to their customers, who will run SAP in the Azure
Cloud. By putting the customer first, we've combined SAP innovation with Azure to create the
optimized environment for SAP S/4HANA to enable the integration, orchestration, and extension
of SAP systems in the Azure Cloud. As always, choice will prevail as we recognize that many of
our customers also run SAP on AWS and GCP, for example. In this case, our customers will still
have the benefit of the best-run SAP and their public cloud of choice.
So, to summarize, SAP is delivering on its winning strategy and its promises as validated by our
strong Q3 and year-to-date results. The fundamentals and future of SAP could not be stronger.
Now I'd like to hand over to my partner and Co-CEO, `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer. We share similar visions and
with highly complementary skill set and experiences, we will write the next chapter of SAP's
success together. Thank you, again. Christian, over to you.
`Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jen, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Let me begin with the personnel
remarks. On Friday, we were saddened by the news about the passing of Mark Hurd. Words are
never adequate in moments like these. The whole IT industry lost a visionary leader and a brilliant
mind. And my thoughts are with his family, his friends, and everyone at Oracle.
Being a CEO is a hallmark [ph] with responsibility and an honor to hold. I want to express my
heartfelt thanks to Hasso Plattner, and the SAP Supervisory Board for the trust they put into Jen
and myself.
Starting off with a quarter like this certainly helps. This is where I also want to thank Bill, not only
for his amazing quarter, but also for the unique journey during the past decade. This is an
outstanding quarter across all key parameters. Cloud and on-premise order entry, revenue, cloud
gross margins, operating margins and cash flow. Luka will walk us through those in a minute.
Let me add some color from the core applications perspective. SAP's ERP flagship solution
S/4HANA continues its success stories. It's the broadest suite in the market, serving over 25
industries and 160 country versions. We are continuing to rap [ph] into artificial intelligence to
further increase the business value and help our customers to grow and drive automation in the
digital age. Until the end of this year, we will have 200 use cases and more than 1,800 features,
representing a 60% increase in scope.
S4 is further gaining market share, and we see positive software license growth and high double-
digit cloud revenue growth. 80% of the DAX companies and 65% of the Forbes Global 2000companies already rely on SAP S/4HANA. We are now at more than 12,000 Latin customers,
representing a 25% year-over-year growth. We're also very happy with regards to adoption,
especially S/4 with more than just the technical migration. It allows our customers a complete
redesign of their business model and business processes.
We see 60% of customers apply for implementing and the other preparing their projects. To
name just a few, this quarter Dow Jones and Callaway Golf in the US and Breitling in Switzerland
went live on S/4HANA, as did Daewoong Pharma in South Korea. In context of that, we are
making rapid progress in Cloud ERP. S/4HANA Cloud, including supply chain management, we are
now at cloud revenue run rate of more than EUR0.5 billion and close to 2,000 customers. That's
a coverage of 17 industries already in the cloud, and we are investing heavily in the user
experience. This quarter we saw subsidiaries of McDonald and Xinjiang Daming Mining in China
go live on S/4HANA Cloud.
I also would like to provide you with an update on our platform business, including our in-memory
database SAP HANA with more than 31,000 customers as of today. One important use case is,
S/4HANA and other LOP applications such as SuccessFactors running on top of SAP HANA, but
over the last two years, HANA has rapidly expanded beyond SAP applications to third-party
applications. This is reflected in the share of full use licenses. We had more than 60% already and
it continues to expand.
We are evolving SAP Cloud platform as a business technology platform with focus on business
services and integrating our LOP application. SAP Cloud platform is also key when we talk about
integration including our master data integration content and co-kernel [ph] services like security
and identity. There is no doubt that cloud is becoming mainstream in the enterprise software
market. And so, we are happy to record increasing cloud cost margins across all business model.
We are looking hard on further increasing the efficiency of our internal cloud delivery. You can see
that in the margin trend and I will provide additional color at the Capital Markets Day. At the same
time, we understand some industries with high policies [ph] complexity like manufacturing and
automotive where ERP customization is needed, we keep major part of their core on-premise for
the foreseeable future.
The same is true for companies and countries with high -- with political instability, limited
infrastructure or increased data security concerns. Hence, a lot of landscapes will remain hybrid
for many years. SAP allows companies to combine cloud and on-premise in a landscape tailored
to their needs, taking into consideration their business requirement and strategic vendor
relationships.
It's all about customer choice. This is also reflected in our multi-cloud strategy allowing both our
customer and us to leverage the hyperscalers' highly elastic and globally available infrastructure
to deliver SAP Cloud solutions. Jen discussed earlier the Microsoft partnership and how excited
we are about that. Bill rest assured that customer choice in this context remains unchanged.
Before I hand it over to Luka, I'd like to point out three focus areas that I believe will be critical for
our success in the next chapter of SAP. One, customer success. SAP has always been best when
we listen to our customers. Customers have been vocal about their feedback which we greatly
appreciate and proactively seek. We are listening and taking action. Integration, solution adoption
and use and upselling is a key and directly related to customer success, through innovation.
SAP is not software distributor. SAP is a software engineering powerhouse. Our continued growth
through innovation is based on our ability to leverage R&D resources effectively and efficiently.cycle, so we get the most out of our R&D investments, which are critical to our future success.
Also, we will further strengthen core innovation with our customers to realize true business value
with the help of new technology.
Three, our employees. It is our colleagues that drive innovation, provide value to our customers,
and consistently promote our growth and profitability. We are proud that SAP has been
recognized on numerous employee awards worldwide. We are the only company to rank on all
five classes of best places to work (inaudible) Our employee engagement index is near record
high, but we don't stop here. In addition to further simplifying our internal processes, we are
currently conducting our annual employee survey this year with our own SAP Qualtrics technology,
which gives us detailed insight into the good, the best and active. If the employees are
productive and innovative and therefore critical to our success.
With that, I would like to hand it over to Luka. Luka, are you happy with the numbers?
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Christian. As you know, usually it's hard to get me satisfied, but this time I'm indeed
absolutely happy with the results this quarter. And I would also like to take the opportunity to
congratulate both you and Jen on being named Co-CEOs.
Look, in April, we promised a stronger focus on profits and we are clearly delivering. I'm very
pleased to say that our operational excellence measures allowed us to achieve double digit
operating profit growth and a substantial operating margin expansion. And just as important, we
achieved this result with continued strong top line momentum.
Let me now provide you with some background on the key drivers of the third quarter. Both cloud
and software revenue as well as total revenue grew 13% this quarter. Cloud revenue was again a
big driver of this growing 37%. New cloud bookings were up 39% and up 51% excluding our
infrastructure-as-a-service business. This is a good trend for SAP, a net positive for the margin
profile of our cloud business.
As mentioned by Jen, we also signed a large partner contract with Microsoft. This contributed 18
percentage points to new cloud bookings growth this quarter. In addition, as Christian said, we
saw a significant growth in our S/4HANA cloud offering. Software license and support revenue
grew at a solid 4% in the quarter. Software licenses revenue declined by 1% and with this, our
software license revenue was actually slightly better than expected despite macro uncertainties.
This was primarily driven by continued growth in our S/4HANA flagship solution and our digital
supply chain offering.
In Q3, the share of more predictable revenue increased to 69%, up 2 percentage points year-
over-year. Now quickly to the regions where we had a very solid performance in the EMEA region
with cloud and software revenue increasing 10%. Cloud revenue increased 48% with Germany
and the UK being highlights. France and the UK had exceptional quarters in software license
revenue.
We had a strong performance in the Americas region. Cloud and software revenue increased
16%. Cloud revenue increased 32% with Canada, Brazil and Mexico being highlights. In addition,
the United States and Brazil both had strong quarters in software license revenue. In the APJ
region, we had a solid quarter amidst a challenging market environment. Cloud and software
revenue was up 9%. Cloud revenue increased 40% with Japan and Australia being highlights.
Japan had an exceptional quarter in software license revenue as well.Let's now look at profitability and gross margin for the third quarter. Our cloud gross margin rose
sharply year-over-year and increased by 5 percentage points to 69%. As Christian already
mentioned, we continue to make progress on efficiency gains in our cloud delivery. This marks the
third straight quarter in a row that we have increased our cloud gross margin sequentially. In our
most profitable cloud segment, the Intelligent Spend Group, gross margin remained steady year-
over-year at 78%. The gross margin of our other SaaS/PaaS businesses expanded massively by 10
percentage points year-over-year and reached 70%, which is an acceleration compared to last
quarter.
Similarly, as in Q2, we benefited from primarily four effects. First, SuccessFactors is now running
solely on our converged cloud platform based on the HANA database, extended lifetime of
hardware, continued high gross margin from Qualtrics, and also benefits from restructuring. For
our infrastructure-as-a-service offering, the cloud gross margin improved by 9 percentage points
year-over-year to 25%. We see infrastructure-as-a-service becoming a smaller share of the cloud
mix going forward as hyperscalers continue to expand their capabilities to operate SAP workloads
in their datacenters.
Our cloud and software gross margin increased by 1 percentage point to 82% year-over-year with
a very positive contribution from the cloud margin. Our services gross margin was up 5
percentage points to 27%. The increase of the services margin mainly results from a strong
revenue performance paired with the successful execution of operational excellence measures
and restructuring benefits.
Overall, operating profit was up 20% year-over-year driven by a combination of strong top line
and further acceleration of our operational excellence and restructuring benefits. This led to a
stellar operating margin, which expanded 170 basis points. Year-to-date, we expanded our
operating margin by 70 basis points. Turning quickly to IFRS operating profit, this was up 36%
benefiting from lower share-based compensation expenses. For the first nine months, though,
IFRS operating profit was down 28%.
Let me just give you a brief recap and update on the effects that led to this result. Compared to
the first nine months of 2018, we had close to EUR100 million higher acquisition-related charges
and revenue adjustments mainly from the acquisition of Qualtrics, close to EUR500 million higher
share-based compensation expenses and approximately EUR1.1 billion higher restructuring
expenses. As mentioned last quarter, these effects are obviously much higher than usual this
year. We still expect IFRS operating profit to be up significantly next year since we don't expect
any meaningful restructuring expenses and acquisition-related charges to likewise decline.
Therefore, our IFRS operating profit growth rate in 2020 will be much higher than on a non-IFRS
basis.
Moving on to EPS and taxes, where for IFRS EPS we saw a strong increase of 28% year-over-year,
while non-IFRS EPS was up 14%. In the third quarter, our IFRS and non-IFRS effective tax rate each
increased close to 2 percentage points year-over-year. However, our tax rate guidance for 2019
remains unchanged. In Q3, our operating cash flow was up 28%. Free cash flow rose sharply and
was up 116% due to strong operating cash flow and a reduction of our CapEx spend by 50%.
For the first nine months, our operating cash flow was EUR3.3 billion, down 5% year-over-year.
Compared to the prior year, operating cash flow was impacted by the following effects. First, the
benefit of roughly EUR290 million from the application of IFRS 16, but then higher restructuring
payouts of around EUR240 million, higher share-based compensation payouts of close to EUR210
million, and higher tax payouts of EUR490 million. For the full year 2019, we therefore still expect
operating cash flow to be slightly lower than in 2018.Similar to IFRS operating profit, we expect a steep increase in operating cash flow in 2020, as
restructuring and tax payouts will decrease sharply. Free cash flow stabilized for the first nine
months and was flat at EUR2.3 billion. This reflects our disciplined CapEx spend, which was
EUR703 million, EUR443 million lower than the previous year. For the full year 2019, we now
expect our CapEx to stay below the EUR1 billion mark.
Before I conclude, I would like to give you an update on our non-financial performance and
sustainability highlights. We are proud to be recognized as the number one software company in
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the 13th year in a row. Developments in the world are
leading to increased demand for SAP to enable customers to implement sustainable business
models connecting economic, social, and environmental objectives. We want to help ensure that
smart integration of impact measurement and valuation will ultimately become standard practice.
To this end, SAP is a founding member of the Value Balancing Alliance, a non-profit organization
that helps businesses measure their overall societal impact and dependencies.
We aim to lead by example, continuing to steer sustainability holistically in our own operations.
Employee retention was down slightly to 93.3% in Q3 year-over-year. We have made great
progress in women in management, which is now at 26.3%, up from 25.9% year-over-year and
obviously with Jen, SAP has named the first female Co-CEO of a DAX company. In Q3, our
carbon emissions were 65 kilotons which is slightly higher than we anticipated. Despite this, we
expect that our emissions in 2019 will stay stable at a minimum. We remain committed to our goal
of becoming carbon-neutral by 2025.
So, to summarize, we delivered an exceptional quarter across revenue, profit, and cash flow. We
achieved double-digit growth in cloud revenue, double-digit growth in cloud and software
revenue, double-digit growth in total revenue, double-digit growth in operating profit, substantial
operating margin expansion, double-digit growth in earnings per share, and triple-digit growth in
free cash flow. We reiterate our 2019 outlook with great confidence and we are on track to reach
our mid-term ambitions.
With that, thank you very much and we will now be happy to take your questions.
Operator
Thank you, sir.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Operator, we can now start the Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you so much. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `John King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of
America. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `John King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Hi and good afternoon, everybody. Couple of questions for me. Firstly, just on the
mechanics of the Microsoft deal. I think you're implying it's about a EUR74 million, EUR75 million
run rate of revenue. Can you just explain just how quickly we will see that kind of revenue run rate
in the numbers, please, perhaps for Luka, I guess? And then just coming back to the cloud
bookings, the second question, I guess, you could look at this in a number of ways, butdepending on the mechanics of that Microsoft deal, I guess, the implied cloud, organic cloud
bookings growth would still, I would say, maybe a little bit below what you are expecting in terms
of cloud revenue growth over the next few years. And I guess the question is, would you agree
with that and if so, what are the steps you are looking to take in order to try and improve the run
rates on the cloud booking side? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, perhaps I will take both of those and then, please, Jen, Christian, add your color, if you
want. So on the Microsoft side, it's very simple. Revenue recognition will begin in Q4 and then
basically we will have roughly the figures that you are citing on an annualized basis over the
course of the next three years basically. On the new cloud bookings side, look, I mean, first of all,
I think, nobody should argue with a 39% new cloud bookings growth and 51% without
infrastructure-as-a-service being a good result. Of course, it was influenced by the Microsoft
transaction. But this is representative with the strategic choices that we are making. We are
doubling-down on the partnerships with our hyperscalers. We drive healthy and highly profitable
cloud platform and S/4HANA business as a result of those partnerships and we focus our HANA
enterprise cloud infrastructure-as-a-service business on high value opportunities. This is exactly
the direction that we want our business to take.
When it comes to the growth rates in new cloud bookings that we need in order to hit our mid-
term objectives, I think I've been talking about this already on a number of calls previously. It's
important to note that, first of all, the new cloud bookings are not the only source of our
revenues and of our growth. Of course, the renewal performance plays a role, the rent in TCV
contracts plays a role and we have quite a few of them that actually have a higher number of
users or other capacity metrics that are kicking-in in later years of a multi-year contract. And on
the other hand, obviously, the pay-as-you-go revenues that we have primarily in our Intelligent
Spend Group are also not captured in new cloud bookings.
When you take a look at our performance across the different cloud segments, you will actually
find that we run basically only healthy businesses that are growing exactly the way they should. In
the Intelligent Spend Group, we have been very consistent around the 20% constant currency
growth mark now for a number of quarters and with the stability of our transactional revenues we
expect that this will be continuing and in the high growth customer and Experience Management
segment, we have been growing close to 100%.
In ATS, actually many of the cloud assets that are now reaching scale like S/4HANA, analytics
cloud have actually had a very, very strong performance. And as they become a bigger piece of
the pie, they will of course also influence the revenue performance in a much bigger way. Cloud
ERP is an almost untapped opportunity still for us. Christian has mentioned the run rate that we
have achieved by now, the opportunity in the market is huge. So, you shouldn't be concerned at
all about our momentum in the cloud. Please.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I'll just punctuate a couple of different areas of focus for cloud growth. The Microsoft deal is
important, because it goes beyond our traditional partnership. They have put pretty big skin in
the game and their sales teams across the world are now selling SAP solutions. That's going to
help us do two things; accelerate the movement of S/4HANA to the cloud and accelerate the
sales of SAP's cloud platform services in cloud revenue. So the stickiness of that partnership, we
believe, will continue to pay broader dividends. I'd say, two other points. Qualtrics is another area
where we see huge potential from a platform perspective as well as just giving us an opportunityto have new conversation, especially in places like Asia. This is where we can hit the ground
running and really drive growth faster.
And then finally, we've heard you, we know that you want to see more organic innovation in the
cloud from SAP. It will be something we talk a little bit more on at our Capital Markets Day. But as
Luka mentioned, whether it'd be analytics or the customer facing solutions or supply chain, this is
an engine that we need to get humming even more.
Q - `John King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. Our next question comes from `Walter Pritchard, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Walter Pritchard, Analyst, Citi `
Hi, thanks. I'm wondering, between some of the things you talked about on the call with S/4
public ERP ramping up with, it looked like the percentage of your S/4 customers that were new
actually came down implying that the installed base might be moving faster as well as what you
talked about with Microsoft in the Azure relationship. Do you expect that you start to see a little
bit more of a pickup here in the installed base migration around S/4? And I'm just curious, I know
investors get a little nervous around cloud versus on-prem, but how do you expect that will
influence those two revenue streams if there is any change that you're highlighting here? Thanks.
A - `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Walter, for the question. So I'll start and then handing over to Adaire. So in Q3,
so we have seen actually really strong quarter for S/4. I mean, as I mentioned, we have seen
positive growth in the software on-premise S/4. And we also have seen high double-digit growth
for S/4HANA cloud revenue. And actually we see both. I mean, we see many industries like
automotive or in the (inaudible) industry, we see a lot of movement also on our customers
migrating to S/4 on-premise. We see also, now that we are increasing the business value of S/4,
we're serving new business models, putting more and more AI into the product, driving more
automation, drive higher intelligence in the processes. We see now that also the move is really
picking up.
And then on the cloud side, especially in the finance area, we have seen major wins now in Q3.
And as I said, being now close to 2,000 customers, this is now a major business for SAP. Even
more important that, in the cloud, we see that the adoption is even kicking in faster. So we see
go lives within 20 days, which is really strong and this also shows that not only in the cloud we are
growing fast, but also customers are adopting really fast.
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, President of Global Customer Operations `
Yeah. Maybe I will just add a little bit to that, Walter. Thanks to our colleagues in development who
are increasing exponentially the functionality that is embedded in S/4, it means that as our
customers look at the value case for the move, there is a very strong value proposition now
around the S/4 environment. We are putting a whole range of different components aroundfacilitating an easy and cost-effective move for our customer base. We can see very significant
focus from the SI community on the S/4 install base. We have a strong value assurance program
and the implementation partners are doubling down on this.
In the general business space, we now have 27 conversion factories from various different
partners supporting our customers in that segment. With our colleagues in DBS, our model
company approach, it means that we are simplifying with pre-configured solutions and content,
the implementation of S/4 in a customer's environment. So we're working to automate as much
as we can of that process to ensure that we can facilitate a cost effective and high value
transformation for our customers.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Good. Thank you.
Q - `Walter Pritchard, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. We will now take our question from `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Great, thank you. Good afternoon and congratulations, Jen and Christian, on your promotions.
Just following up on the topic of the private cloud, I mean, you're obviously repeating the
ambition for 2023 cloud revenues of EUR15 billion, but looking at this Microsoft relationship, in
part, that could be cannibalistic to the growth in HEC. Do you see any change in the mix in 2023?
Are you expecting the SaaS/PaaS business perhaps to be bigger than previously as a result of
this. And then related to that, Luka, on the CapEx side, I think you said you're expecting less than
EUR1 billion this year. Six months ago, it was going to be EUR1.5 billion. I'm wondering how much
of that relates to this change in hyperscaler relationships, and how much maybe to your -- you
have some quite large capital projects like building offices in Munich and such like, is that
contributing to the reduction in CapEx?
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
So maybe I can take the first part of the question. We don't see this cannibalizing our revenue,
because we see that customers want choice. And so many of our customers absolutely want SAP
to manage S/4 in the cloud, whether it'd be the public cloud or whether it'd be a HANA
enterprise cloud. So we see many of our customers are making broader public cloud, enterprise
decisions. And for us, we wanted to make sure that we didn't limit our conversation to customers
only specific to one cloud offering. And so what we found is that the customer has so many
voices around their table right now, whether it'd be movement to public cloud, or S/4 or other
innovation, and we just found that by coming together and giving them prescriptive options
depending on what's important to them, what their industry is, et cetera, then we can make sure
regardless, we're getting a piece of the pie and we can influence that decision. So we'll continueto see both of those revenue streams grow, but now we're going to be in far more conversations
and impacting the direction. Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And perhaps just last on this one. I think we have been talking for a while now about the
fact that we expect indeed the infrastructure-as-a-service to draw focus on high value
engagements will not further increase as a percentage of cloud revenues. Actually, we believe
that there is now an acceleration in SaaS part, but there is very positive for the overall margin and
of course also for the gross margins in the cloud.
When it comes to CapEx, it's correct. I mean, we have made great progress this year in our
CapEx efficiencies. Main contributing factors are, first of all, the progress that we have been
making with the hyperscalers and our partnerships in this respect. They are now really powering a
lot of the infrastructure support that we need for our applications and that is of course helping us
a lot, but it's also due to the fact that Gary Slater and Christian's organization and the cloud
infrastructure team have done a terrific job to rationalize the demand for our own data center
hardware and consolidating the procurement centrally. They have also successfully renegotiated
the maintenance contracts for our hardware and our data centers in a way that makes it now
highly economic to extend the lifetime of the hardware from four to five years, and that has of
course also in the CapEx intensity and we believe that this will continue to be the case.
Yes, of course, we also have general CapEx needs through facilities and other CapEx areas, but
they are largely planned for and they have not been subject to major changes. So it's really mainly
the infrastructure efficiency in IT and in our data centers and we believe that this will continue. So,
also for the next couple of years, we expect no significant increases from the level that we have
reached right now.
A - `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe, Mike, just to give you one concrete example also how our HANA Enterprise Cloud
offering plays together with our hyperscaler strategy, I mean, one of our main competitors talked
about some SAP ERP replacement and I had a -- actually have no evidence. I didn't find any SAP
customer moving over to the competition. But what we are just currently doing there is, one large
ERP customer from the competition, they are now saying we want to move to S/4HANA. They
have not the skill to get to one HANA and one S/4HANA, so they said put S/4HANA on ESA and
we go to the HANA Enterprise Cloud. So you help us to first replace the database, second the
ERP and then SAP helps with the migration. And this is done with the HANA Enterprise Cloud
offering plus ESA infrastructure. So you also can see that both offerings have also played really
well together and helps us also to win market share going forward.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Let's take the next question please.
Operator
Certainly. Our next question is from Kirk Materne from Evercore ISI. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Stewart Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Yes, thanks very much. And I'll add my congrats to Jennifer and Christian on your newmentioned that the business had been accelerating sort of versus the pre-IPO growth rates and I
was just kind of curious where are you in terms of being able to leverage the global distribution
capabilities of SAP with Qualtrics? And then, I guess, secondly, what kind of halo effect is maybe
Qualtrics having on some of the other SaaS properties? I think you mentioned sort of the change
in terminology around SuccessFactors. So I was just wondering if you could give us some sort of a
broader update there on sort of the ability to leverage the Qualtrics brand across all of SAP.
Thanks.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thank you. Thanks for the question, Kirk. I'll start and then `Ryan Smith, Chief Executive Officer is actually on the call
and I'll hand it him to give you a little bit more color. So, I look at it from a couple angles. One is
that when you look at SuccessFactors or HR, and you look at the traditional category of HR, it was
very much an event-driven kind of after the fact solution track -- track different events that
happens in an employee's lifecycle. When you look at what's happening in the workforce today,
the war for talent and employee experience, Qualtrics has really allowed us to really redefine
how we're having these conversations. So it's not just about understanding why things are
happening or why do I have attrition. It's understanding how to go further upstream and
understanding who is going to address what are my issues going to be.
And so being able to have those kind of conversations and take actions much further upstream in
the business is key. So that has given us a huge kick in SuccessFactors, because it really changes
the nature of the conversation and it makes it a (inaudible) discussion, because now we're talking
to people about how experience actually shows up in the income statement, how we can actually
lower your SG&A or it's going to allow you to be more productive and getting employees in retail
on the floor and more productive in selling more is one example. So SuccessFactors is one.
The other one clearly is around customer experience. When you look at our commerce solution,
we see a really strong correlation between bringing together commerce and Qualtrics. The
Qualtrics is also allowing us to start conversations in places maybe we wouldn't traditionally go. So
it's allowing us to be, whether you are in customer service or other parts of the enterprise, it is
getting us broader conversations and broader audiences, which has been fantastic.
From a geographic perspective, you look at a region like APJ, the companies and the brands that
are in APJ are foundationally based on this concept of experience. You look at the airlines in Asia
and compare them to any other airlines in the world, these companies already understand
experience. Now they very quickly can understand how technology can help them scale that new
and different ways.
Ryan and I were in Korea and Japan launching this over the summer, and we had incredible
growth in our APJ regions around Qualtrics. So we're able to hit the ground much quicker. Our
employees are super-excited about this solution, because they are able to have these
conversations and we're really starting to have this enterprise conversation.
Ryan, I'll hand it to you to add any additional color.
A - `Ryan Smith, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think you said it great, Jen. I think the only thing I would add would be, if you look back a
year ago, we were on the road at this time, kind of starting our IPO roadshow, getting ready to
go public and if you would have told me that -- here we are almost a year later, we've seen a
massive increase in our growth rate from what was already out there. We're also seeing anytime
we go in with SAP, our deal size increase 30% plus.We've already seen massive adoption on the EX product with combination of SuccessFactors.
We've always been known as the company with the best technology in this space by far. I think
the question was always out there, is HEC will go from seven-figure deals to high seven figure
deals to eight figure deals. And with the combination of SAP, with the partnership network, we
just launched a massive partnership with Ernst & Young, launched our Qualtrics development
platform where last week we had 300 partners in Utah. We're starting to answer all of those
questions.
So like I said, if you would have told me last year at this time that this is where we would be after
the announcement with SAP with the accelerated growth rate on an already fast growing
company, I would have said, hey, that looks like success to us. So with this combination, we've
done everything we said we were going to do plus some, so I couldn't be happier.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. The next question is from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, good afternoon and thanks for taking the question. And also congratulations from my side for
both to Jen and to Christian on the new roles. I've got two questions, if I could. I just wanted to
come back to Microsoft and the partnership there to start off with. And just to understand a little
bit better technically exactly what's happening. As Microsoft bought a volume of software from
you, then they can resell on to their customers bundled on Azure, so that in effect they are acting
as a reseller for that and there is a volume of business that you get directly upfront from
Microsoft that otherwise you may or may not have got, but would have come through over time
with customers directly. Could you maybe help us understand whether there is upside or
downside to those numbers? And then also whether you would envisage doing similar deals with
other hyperscalers in future, or whether there's other products you could also see that type of
deal happening for? So just a little bit more detail around the actual technical details of that
Microsoft partnership will be really helpful.
And then secondly, probably for Luka on the margins. You had a big benefit on -- particularly on
the cloud gross margin side from the changes you've made around SuccessFactors and
integration of the landscapes there. Could you maybe just help us around that on the
restructuring? Should we expect a slightly slower pace of margin expansion over the next few
quarters, because we've got that kind of one big benefit or are there still benefits from
restructuring, particularly to come through? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
So I'll start. So, as it relates to Microsoft, really what this was about is, making sure we were being
very prescriptive with our customers around what are the cloud services from SAP and what are
the different services from Microsoft the customer should be thinking about when they are
combining our solution. Today, they are kind of -- our users from Microsoft (inaudible) SAP, we've
come together and been very, very clear on some business platform around SAP as it relates to
the integration of SAP systems, as it relates to extensions of SAP or orchestration of SAP
systems.We have a set of SAP cloud platform services that do them. We bundle those together and
embrace. Microsoft made a commitment to those and can resell it with the customers. There's no
downside to those numbers, only upside. The way that we really went about estimating kind of
our initial start of this market was really in a few key areas of the world. And we put a very -- a lot
of scrutiny around the pipeline, the business where we saw the customers moving, those who
told us where they plan to move. So we see this as a start. We also want to make sure we're very
clear here that we provide our customers choice.
So, let's say, for example, we now have lots of customers who may be run on AWS. They've
already chosen to run SAP on AWS. Those cloud platform services that I just mentioned around
the integration, orchestration, and extension, those customers can buy those directly from SAP.
So they can still get SAP's reference architecture on AWS or on GCP from SAP. The difference
here is Microsoft puts a skin in the game, they are really teaming with us, they are doubling down
the innovation and engineering with us and they are going to have their salespeople out selling
this as well.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And perhaps, just quickly on the margins front. No, we have not yet lost our firepower. We
have additional benefits to gain from the platform convergence. I think, I've been talking a lot in
the past years about this being an opportunity alone in the low triple digit million euro figure.
Year-to-date, we have had a benefit of just about EUR50 million from the re-platforming. That
means that at least the same amount is still to come. I believe actually we will do slightly more
than this, because the benefits are really significant. And now we have paved the way for further
efficiency increases for automation in other areas.
And secondly, this is only SuccessFactors. We have still to fully complete the job on the Ariba
business network. The application side at Ariba is already done. The business network side will be
finished as well, come Q1 next year. And with that, you will see also the additional benefits in our
Intelligent Spend Group business network cloud margins, which certainly will then help us to
further increase the cloud margin also strongly in 2020. By the way, in the SaaS/PaaS business, we
are now at 70.4% margin. This is what we had predicted only for next year. So we are clearly
ahead of our plans. And you can continue to expect us to do very well on the cloud margin.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. The next question is from `Phil Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Phil Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Hi, thanks for taking my question and congrats again on a great Q3 and congrats to you, Jennifer
and Christian, looking forward to working with you closely going forward. Just wanted to focus onthe manufacturing vertical because I think everybody on this call knows that the manufacturing
obviously really runs SAP and on the Q2 call, obviously you've flagged some issues with China and
then you called out Germany, but you actually continue to put up good results overall. What are
you hearing from these manufacturing customers in terms of just their spending intentions,
because as you mentioned last call, changes in supply chain might need to drive more spending
with you all. But there is obviously some macro issues. Just if you could just double click on that
vertical, that'd be great.
A - `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so I'll start, and then handing over to Adaire for some specifics about China. I mean, on the
manufacturing side, we are doing extremely well. I mean, we have both now a very competitive
offering for on-prem as well as on the cloud. We want the solution on different hyperscalers, so
we offer choice. And also in China now S/4 will also go live now on Ali Cloud in Q4. So, also there
we will also have S/4HANA running on Chinese infrastructure starting in Q4, now actually this
quarter. Adaire, any more?
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, President of Global Customer Operations `
Yeah. Maybe just on the German side, a little bit of color on that. We had a very strong
performance from SAP in Germany in Q2. And we did enter Q3 with an exceptionally strong
pipeline for Germany despite what we thought as an overperformance on their numbers in Q2.
But we definitely saw, during the course of Q3, some slowdown in execution, particularly for the
customers in the discrete manufacturing segment, I would say, was really around business caution
from here of a recession. We enter now Q4 with a very strong pipeline, not just from the
seasonal perspective, but also because of an outlook on some backlogs. On some of those
deals, cash flows down a little bit and we are using and have used the opening weeks of this
quarter to really build out those value cases and the validation of those cases and the validation
of those funds with our customers in this segment. So, I remain quite optimistic about our
business in MAE, particularly because, as I look forward to Q4 pipeline, it is much broader than
the discrete segment.
And in China, we have -- I had the privilege of serving businesses in China for over 27 years now.
And I have a very strong footprint in China with about 70% of the Fortune 2000 being SAP
customers in China. Nevertheless, I will tell you that we are seeing a slowdown. We are seeing
customers who are adopting a wait and see strategy, specifically focus, not so much on the
software itself, but on the challenges of business continuity in the event of increasing tension as it
relates to some of the macro political and economic scenarios we have seen.
There is also a very strong focus from the Chinese government (inaudible) indigenous innovation,
which is the ability of companies in China in order to have Chinese components et cetera in their
supply chain. Nevertheless, I would say to you that, as a result of some of the work that we have
been doing around our work with Ali Cloud and the ability to land our products on environments
in China, for China, I'm confident that we will be able to address those business continuity issues
that were raised and of course continuing to grow our business in China at the rate that we've
been growing at over the last decade.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
And perhaps just one sentence, on a global level, believe it or not, our two best performing
verticals were actually services and discrete manufacturing.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `Thank you.
Q - `Phil Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great, guys, and best of luck in Q4. Thanks.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Phil.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks a lot. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. The next question is from `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP from Exane BNP. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP `
Yes. Hi, thanks for taking my question. I was just following up on the previous question, I apologize
if you've answered this already. But on the Microsoft deal, I was just wondering if you think you
could be able to put similar partnerships in place with some of the other hyperscaler partners
you've mentioned. I mean obviously you've just talked about Alibaba and Ali Cloud in China. I
mean, is this something that you could potentially see Alibaba doing in terms of helping you sell
direct in China? Thank you.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So, I think that we're open to the future. Obviously, we have a very specific relationship that
we've defined in motion that we've defined with Microsoft that will be very specific and preferred
by the two of us. So, in looking at other partnership, we already have pretty strong partnerships
with both GPP and AWS. We're users of that technology, we will continue to be. And so there's
always possibilities for the future, but today we are just about Microsoft.
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, President of Global Customer Operations `
Maybe I can comment on the Ali side.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, President of Global Customer Operations `
(multiple speakers) You are very welcome. In China, as I am sure everybody is aware, there's a
unique set of licensing laws around software-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service as well as a
unique set of cyber security laws. And so therefore, with Ali, we have physically landed platform
onto the Ali infrastructure in China. And we will physically land S/4 on to the Ali infrastructure in
China. And that means then we have the opportunity with the Ali Cloud team to take us tosolutions directly to the market, a very large scale market of small and medium enterprises in
China.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Adaire.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Q - `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP `
Great. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Operator
The next question is from `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. The line is open.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thanks very much. Thanks for taking my question. Can I just ask one about the competitive
landscape? In your prepared remarks, you made reference to both Medallia and Coupa, but can
you talk about your win rates against some of the larger, more conventional competitors in
Workday and Salesforce? And I guess the driving force behind the question is the recent
comments from Workday that they are now penetrated in 40% of the Fortune 500s. That sounds
like they are making some reasonable progress. Thank you.
A - `Jennifer Morgan, Co-Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. I can add on to the comments that I made before. I think one of the things that I
wanted to stress in my remarks is just the seismic scale from an Ariba perspective of the network
that we do have and the work that we've done. And we've had several wins over our competition
in the enterprise space last quarter. So we feel very good about our win rates and what's
happening there.
As it relates to SuccessFactors, we have our large SuccessFactors customer events in Q3. And
again the conversations that we're having and moving beyond just talking about HR, the
traditional HR processes, so we've actually seen some really great wins using Qualtrics within
North America. But I think more importantly, the advantage that we have is just the ability to scale
broadly outside of the United States. We're not a German company, we're not an American
company, we're a global company. And we've got feet on the street everywhere. So when you
look over in Asia, when you look over in Latin America, and you look at some of the customers
that we're adding, we have a head start. Now when you bring in Qualtrics and you start to
differentiate solutions like SuccessFactors, that allows us to accelerate even further. So we feel
really good about where we are right now with the win.
The thing I like about Qualtrics, if you think about Qualtrics, Qualtrics is not about surveys. It's not
just about surveys and sentiment. When you think about what SAP did with ERP back decades
ago, we saw silo systems, supply chain, manufacturing, financial, running the operations of a
company. We saw an opportunity to bring those interdependent functions together, to have
better insight to the business and being more efficient. That was back when the data within the
four walls of the company and that became the operational data platform.Qualtrics takes a very similar analogy to that. Most data about your consumers, and even your
employees is not just inside the company, but outside the company. Businesses are gathering
sentiment and engaging with customers, employees across multiple functions of a company,
outside the company, et cetera. Lots of companies do surveys, lots of functions within companies
take employee sentiment or customer sentiment. The differentiator with Qualtrics is, they figured
out how all that's interdependent and it created a platform. So, this platform approach and
technology that Ryan talked about earlier, this is what differentiates SAP. This is what our sales
force knows how to talk about, and this is where we're really starting to see the uptick and
getting those big deals that Ryan mentioned earlier. It's an enterprise discussion, it's on the
agenda as every CEO today. So those are just a couple of things that stands.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks a lot and we have time for one final question, please.
Operator
Certainly. And this question is from `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you very much. And Jennifer and Christian, my congratulations as well on your new
roles. I had a couple. Firstly, Luka, you obviously have some pretty strong gross margin tailwinds
continuing into next year, but also some of the big OpEx benefits kicking in. You've also talked
about sort of reinvestments back in the business. Can you talk about sort of the flexibility you
have around delivering the margin and perhaps the shape of the margin expansion over the next
couple of years in the event that the top line potentially faces risks, be they macro or anything
else?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure, can do. So, first of all, obviously the benefits from the restructuring program this year
has not been significant, because it takes a while for the program to take effect, so the bigger
impact will come next year. What you see this year in terms of progress on the gross margin side
is really around the re-platforming and increased operational efficiency through consolidation of
data center operations and infrastructure operations. And therefore, I'm very, very confident that
we can continue to scale this business with increasing gross margin contributions also next year
and even beyond next year.
We have always said that, in 2019, against our target of an -- on average 1 percentage point of
margin increase, the market should not expect a full percentage point already this year because
we have the dilutive impact from our acquisitions that we have to digest. And given that this is a
40 basis points dilutive headwind, I think you can see how the underlying is already performing
against the average 1% that we have in mind. That in turn means that we will plan to do slightly
more than that 1% next year to catch up, because next year, we have the full run rate benefit from
the restructuring, but it's clear, the restructuring is not a cost cutting exercise. And I want to be
very, very clear about that.
We have done the restructuring in order to tailor our investments and our capacity to those areas
where we have the biggest growth opportunities and we are putting actually our actions to where
our plans work. We are seeing tremendous investment in Qualtrics, we're seeing a tremendous
investment in our different cloud constituents. We are adding additional capacities only in theproductive areas in research and development, in sales and in services and that will continue to
be the case to propel our growth.
In terms of optionality, our business model has become way more resilient. We have now close to
70% of our revenues in the highly predictable revenue sources, contrast that to only one-third
when we hit the financial crisis in 2008 and that gives you a good perspective on how resilient our
business model has become. And therefore, if we have to optimize our level of investments
against only 30% variability in the top line, that would be a much easier than in the past. So you
should take a lot of confidence out of this that we can and will hit our mid-term ambitions as we
have announced them.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And, Mo, did you have a follow-up or? That's not the case. Well, this concludes our Q3
earnings call for today. Thank you so much for joining and we look forward to speaking to you
again at our CMD on November 12 in New York City. Thank you very much, and goodbye.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that now concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your
participation. You may now disconnect.