Q1 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello everyone, `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer here. Welcome to the First Quarter of 2019 Conference Call and our
Webcast for Investors and Analysts. We're in London today for the Annual General Meeting that
will take place this afternoon. The presentation, as always, is available on astrazeneca.com and
we've also sent it to those on our distribution list.
Please turn to Slide 2. This is our usual Safe Harbor statement. We've been making comments on
our financial performance using core reporting numbers and at constant exchange rates, CER,
which are both non-GAAP measures. We'll also discuss other non-GAAP measures deemed
helpful for investors and analysts. All numbers will refer to million US dollars and growth rates will
be at CER and for the first quarter of 2019 unless we state otherwise.
Please turn to Slide 3. We plan to spend a good half hour on the presentation and then go to
Q&A. For those on the phone, please get in the queue by pressing star one. There's also an
option to ask questions as part of the webcast. As we would like to provide everyone with an
opportunity to ask questions, please try to limit yourself to one question per person in the first
round. Thank you so much for your help with this. And today I am joined by `Dave Fredrickson, Executive VP and President, Oncology, our
EVP for Oncology; `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals, EVP for BioPharmaceuticals; `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO; Mene
Pangalos, who is our EVP for R&D BioPharmaceuticals and `Jose Baselga, Executive VP & President of Research & Development, our EVP for R&D
Oncology. We're also so very pleased to have Susan Galbraith who is with us today, and Susan, as
you know is our SVP of our R&D Oncology. She will join us for the Q&A.
Please turn to Slide 4. This is the agenda. We plan to cover all key aspects of our results today. So
if we move to Slide 5, in March 2013, we launched a new strategy for AstraZeneca where weoutlined a plan for achieving scientific leadership, returning the company to growth, and being a
great place to work for our colleagues around the world. We have more than 60,000 colleagues
working for our company. In the meantime we have rebuilt the pipeline and returned to sales
growth.
If you turn to Slide 6, we see progress we've made. We recently updated our three strategic
objectives and they remain consistent with our previous priorities, but of course, they reflect a
new focus for the next few years. And number one, it is to deliver the growth that we have
created with the new products we are launching and to deliver our ambition to be a tier leader in
each of the therapy area where we focus. Second priority is to accelerate innovative science by
moving some of our mid-stage pipeline into a later-stage as fast as we can, and we are
prioritizing some of our projects to do that. And the third is to be a great place to work, and that
is really fundamental to our future success.
We believe our efforts will not only continue, may redouble to build an even greater place to
work.
On the science side, our focus is now on accelerating the science we built to the benefit of
patients. First and foremost, AstraZeneca is a company focused on innovation. We're focused on
prescription medicines and the medicine that bring full value and innovation to patient society.
We're well diversified with global presence and scale and it's an important message for you as
we have a geographical diversification and also we don't rely on one therapy area. We have three
therapy areas in both primary care and specialty care.
This takes into growth and therapy area leadership, which we updated to reflect our recent return
to growth and to signal our clear ambition to create the company with sustainable sales growth.
We have now started to focus on the next wave of growth that goes towards the middle of the
2020. Please also let me emphasize that growth also covers earnings and cash flow. We continue
to expect growth in earnings this year and the years to come and our cash flow improvement in
2020.
I want to emphasize here that we are very much on track with what we said and to return to net
cash flow by 2020 that delivers on our goals and enables us to start reducing debt by 2021 and
beyond. We look forward -- Marc will cover those financials a bit later, and we look forward to
keeping our shareholders and analysts updated on the continuation of our strategic journey.
We're really pleased to share that our first quarter 2019 results clearly demonstrate that we are
more than on the right track.
So if you turn to Slide 7, essentially, if I summarize our quarter, our sales grew by 14% in the
quarter. In fact, I would add that if you normalize for the impact of divestments, as you know,
we've divested number of medicines, our growth rate would have been 21%, and that reflects
really the outstanding underlying growth in momentum in our business. We had strong
performance with new medicines increasing by 83% and adding more than $900 million in
incremental sales. So we almost increased sales by $1 billion out of new products this quarter. A
Very strong growth.
Oncology grew by 59%. But it was a very broad set of growth rates not only oncology. A new
CVRM, diabetes, Brilinta grew by 19%, and respiratory grew double digit by 14%, and that growth
within respiratory was driven by Fasenra and Pulmicort. As we discussed before, AstraZeneca is
well diversified across three main areas and also for global presence and emerging markets. So
that brings me to our performance in the emerging markets. Sales there grew by 22%. This is the
historical growth rates for us, first time we achieved such a high number. And it was not only inChina, 28% growth there, but also we had growth, strong growth right across all emerging
markets. And collectively, they grew by 13% outside of China. Total revenue grew by 11% and
despite very limited collaboration revenue.
Our core operating costs increased by 5% and as a result, we saw a strong operating leverage as
we promised last quarter we would deliver. Core operating profit jumped by 96%. Despite the
higher tax rate, our core EPS doubled to $0.89. Our guidance remains unchanged this year. This
shows we are early in the year.
Outside the financials, the pipeline continued to progress, and we anticipate a very prolific news
flow in the second half of the year. Finally, our focus on sustainable sales growth was
strengthened through the agreement with Daiichi Sankyo regarding the collaboration on
Trastuzumab deruxtecan.
Please turn to Slide 8. If you look at the pipeline we continue to make good progress, and that
remains handful to sustaining sales growth over the mid to long term. There were a number of
highlights in oncology, including the regulatory approval for Lynparza in breast cancer in the EU
and the regulatory submission in China for the same indication. Lynparza obtained positive Phase
III data in pancreatic cancer, a new cancer type for Lynparza. Selumetinib got Breakthrough
Therapy Designation for NF1, a rare disease. In Bio-Pharma, Farxiga obtained the first approvals
for type 1 diabetes in Japan and in the EU and we also saw the DECLARE CV outcomes trial data
accepted by regulators in the US and in the EU. Brilinta met the primary endpoint in the THEMIS
Phase III trial in type 2 diabetes patients with coronary artery disease.
In COPD, our partner received approval in the US for Duaklir. On the list, we also got a regulatory
submission acceptance in the US and the EU for PT010. The second trial result later this year.
Finally, saracatinib which was repositioned from cancer into IPF, obtained orphan drug designation
in the US Mene and Jose will cover more R&D details later on.
If you turn to slide 9. The first quarter with 14% growth was the third consecutive quarter of strong
sales growth since the present cliff. So we clearly have put the period of patent expiries behind
us. We promised a return to sales growth in 2018 with the result. We are now on the next journey
of sustained sales growth in 2019 and beyond.
As we move through 2019, the comparisons will get tougher in the second half of the year. But
our sales guidance remains strong at high single-digit growth and it remains tougher, because of
course, the Oncology business in particular is becoming bigger. so that impacts growth rates, but
also we want to flag that we expect China to still continue growing at a fast clip, but not as fast as
we have experienced lately, because we will start being impacted as other companies by the
changes in the marketplace.
Our new medicines continued to make a significant contribution to growth, this time increasing by
83%. Of all the biggest contributor remain Tagrisso, which is now our largest selling medicine.
Imfinzi and Lynparza also did well and added significant sales. Fasenra, Brilinta, Farxiga drove
strong double-digit sales growth in BioPharmaceuticals. Together, the new medicines added
more than $900 million of incremental sales in the first quarter of 2019. If you look at the slide 10,
and our main therapy areas, and if you look at the emerging market the well-diversified nature of
our company becomes much more visible. We're more diversified than in the past and we are
more diversified than our peers. Oncology is approaching $2 billion per quarter and it grew by
59% in the quarter. It's now more than one-third of our total sales.
CVRM, New CVRM with Diabetes and Brilinta grew by 19% to more than $1 billion and representsales. And finally other medicines declined by 21% as expected and importantly here you see the
reflection of the final impact of patent expiries, but also as I said earlier, the impact of
divestments which is a big part of this decline here. But importantly you can see this Other
medicines are now representing less than one quarter of the total sales. And I would add to
these that if you look at Other medicines outside the emerging market, these are really now
representing a small portion of our total sales and Other medicines in the emerging market
continue to grow.
Our geographical diversification is important for the future of our company. The emerging market
broke the $2 billion mark, 22% with one--with more than $1 billion in China for the quarter and a
growth of 28%. So it's really pleasing, 22% is a historical growth rate for us. And we have many
opportunities to help patients in China and many countries around the world. It's not on the slide,
but I want to make a note of our fantastic performance in Japan. Our team there did a really
great job, and AZ Japan grew by 27% in the quarter. So I would like to offer my thanks to our
Japanese colleagues who have worked very hard to return AZ Japan to growth and now bringing
important medicines like Tagrisso, Imfinzi, Lynparza and Fasenra to enroll patients.
If we turn to Slide 11, very recently, late March we announced the collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo
on trastuzumab deruxtecan, an innovative antibody drug conjugate or armed antibodies. With the
addition of this new medicine, we added a fifth pillar to oncology strategy. We already have
leading medicines for lung cancer, with Tagrisso and Imfinzi, we have Lynparza in ovarian cancer,
but also across multiple cancer types and we have Calquence for blood cancer. And breast
cancer has always been an important priority for us, and this new agent will help us build a strong
presence in breast cancer, but also outside of breast.
We have been a pioneer in breast cancer with Nolvadex, Arimidex, but also now with Faslodex
and Lynparza. And so these new agents will also expand, will help us expand our presence in
prescription medicine that follows the success with Tagrisso and Lynparza. And importantly, we
have a strong knowledge of HER2 among many people in the company that have operated in the
field either in development or in the commercial field, and it's an important aspect of our
collaboration with our colleagues at Daiichi Sankyo.
We lack the long-dated nature of the medicine and therefore, we were also prepared in this
exceptional case to use long-dated financing in the form of an equity issuance to bring the
medicine in. But I also want to add that the equity issuance is a unique event of course, but it
reflects the uniqueness of the asset. And I think people will learn to discover the potential of this
medicine. We believe as we progress and produce more data, it would become very apparent to
everybody that this is a transformative agent that has enormous potential.
We look forward to keeping you updated on further progress with our oncology strategy, and I
will hand over now to Dave for a review of the latest oncology performance, so please turn to
Slide 12..
`Dave Fredrickson, Executive VP and President, Oncology `
Great, thank you so much, Pascal. And I think that it's a nice segue to bridge from a conversation
about the Oncology strategy to the performance within the first quarter. After I do that, I'll hand
over to `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals, who'll give an update on CVRM, Respiratory and Emerging Markets. Please
turn to slide 13. 2019 has really started off well for Oncology, a sales of $1.9 billion in the quarter
represented 59% growth and the four new medicines contributed $700 million of incremental
sales. In the lung cancer franchise, Tagrisso and Imfinzi continued their launches in the new
indications of first-line EGFR mutated non-small cell lung cancer and also within unresectableLynparza continued to cement itself as the leading PARP inhibitor with the first line ovarian cancer
launch, now under way and expanding across the globe. We continue to see encouraging uptake
of Calquence in the smaller mantle cell lymphoma indication, now with sales of $29 million in the
quarter. The majority of sales coming from the approved indication in the US., where we estimate
as many as 40% of the patients are being treated with Calquence , and we saw the majority of
use in patients naive to BTKI inhibitors.
This launch allowed us to build the infrastructure as we prepare for the larger chronic lymphocytic
leukemia indication where we have two pivotal Phase III readouts coming in the second half of the
year,
And then finally, while it's not mentioned on the slide I do want to note that Faslodex held ground
with sales of $254 million in the quarter, and growth of 4%, mainly driven by performance in
emerging markets they were up 28%, and we do note that we anticipate to see the first generic
fulvestrant in the US market relatively soon.
With that, let's go into the product specifics and turn to Slide 14. Starting first on Tagrisso. We're
excited to share that Tagrisso is now the largest selling medicine in the AstraZeneca portfolio, it
demonstrated continued growth up 92% in the quarter with $630 million in sales as the launches
in the front line setting a really taking effect across the globe. The US exhibited strong demand
growth with Tagrisso sales of $259 million as we reached a high level of penetration in the front
line setting in the EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer setting, though that high demand was
offset by inventory reductions and some gross to net adjustments, which resulted in a sequential
decline in the US, but again, we saw really good underlying demand growth.
Europe reported $100 million of sales in the quarter, with growth of 55% driven by increased
testing rates and strong levels of demand in the second-line setting as more countries start to
reimburse for the first-line indication following the approval in June 2018.
Japan delivered Tagrisso sales of $123 million, up by 153% as Tagrisso reached new highs in
adoption following the first-line launch in the third quarter and is now the region where we
actually have the highest market share for Tagrisso across the globe. Emerging Markets delivered
$138 million in sales with China contributing more than half as the NRDL listing started to take
effect. And we look forward the China first-line regulatory decision later this quarter.
Please turn to Slide 15. Staying within lung cancer and moving on to Imfinzi. Imfinzi continued
quarterly growth as the US continued to see adoption of the pacific regimen and unresectable
Stage III non-small cell lung cancer. Imfinzi reported sales of $295 million and is now annualizing at
over $1 billion a year with the vast majority coming from the US and the lung indication. In the US.,
we're seeing more than half of patients are now getting chemoradiotherapy with more than half
of those then getting Imfinzi after chemoradiotherapy. We see that the most immediately
available patients are now benefiting from Imfinzi as evidenced by the increasing patient
infusions, illustrated on the graph. And our focus in 2019 is really on making sure that we drive the
same level of performance outside the United States as we've now seen within the United
States.
During the quarter, Imfinzi secured more approvals for the Pacific regimen, and now we're
approved in over 45 countries. Sales outside of the US are starting to ramp up as we gain
reimbursement in more countries. Japan alone delivered $34 million in sales. Europe, $23 million.
And we are excited to bring Imfinzi to more patients across the globe in this area of high unmet
need through 2019. We've also kicked off a number of other trials in the early settings in lung
cancer and beyond building on the foundations stepped by Pacific.Please now turn to Slide 16. Finally for me on Lynparza. Lynparza demonstrated continue progress
with sales of $237 million and growth across all regions as we continued to roll out the broader
second-line maintenance label on ovarian cancer and the breast indication in the US and in Japan.
As of last month, Europe was approved in breast cancer. And at the end of last year, we received
US approval in the first-line ovarian cancer setting, a new growth contributor. US sales were $119
million, where Lynparza continues to be the leading medicine in the PARP-inhibitor class as
measured by total prescription volumes in what is a very competitive marketplace. Increase in
demand came from the all-comers label in second-line ovarian cancer and the subsequent first-
line label as well as the growing use within breast cancer. As you would expect, we continue to
see the majority of the use of Lynparza in the ovarian cancer setting.
European sales were $65 million, up by 62% and reflecting increased BRCA- testing rates as we
roll out additional launches and secure reimbursement across several markets with the inclusion
of the broader EU label in ovarian cancer and for tablet. Some EU sales were also attributed to
clinical trial supply. Japan delivered sales of $22 million following the launches in ovarian and
breast cancer last year. Lynparza was the first PARP inhibitor launched in China, which contributed
to the $26 million in Emerging Markets in the quarter.
And with this, I hand it over to Ruud, and please turn to Slide 17.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals `
Thank you so much, Dave. Today, I'm here to talk to you about the BioPharmaceuticals business.
Total sales of the two therapy areas was $2.3 billion in the quarter, growing at 16%. We're very
pleased with the continued growth of Farxiga and Brilinta and the ongoing successful launch of
Fasenra. Symbicort and Pulmicort also continued to deliver strong sales. We look to growth on this
growth, including through further launches for Lokelma during 2019.
Please turn to Slide 18. Moving to New CVRM, sales were up by 19% despite the intense
competition in diabetes which totaled first quarter sales at $1 billion. Growth for both Farxiga and
Brilinta remains strong with double-digit increases globally. Farxiga delivered sales of $349 million
in the quarter with 23% growth maintaining volume market share leadership globally. Farxiga saw
US Growth of 3% in the quarter with growing slowing due to increased competition and formulary
plan changes taking effect in the quarter. Outside the US where we have 62% of sales, we have
seen encouraging performances with increasing volume growth.
Sales in Europe were up by 30%, and the emerging market sales were up by 51%. Brilinta
delivered sales of $348 million with 24% growth driven by strong performance in Emerging
Markets, up by 38%. We also had continuous growth in the US and Europe, up by 33% and 3%,
respectively. European underlying demand growth was high single digit despite some negative
inventory impact. We continue to be very pleased with the performance of Brilinta, which is still
outgrowing the market in all regions.
Bydureon, including the auto-injected Bydureon BCise, continued to perform well with sales of
4% despite the impact of supply constraints for the new BCise device. We are on track to resolve
this throughout the year and be back to normal supply in the second half of this year.
Please turn to Slide 19. Turning to respiratory. We saw 14% growth in the quarter, driven by
Fasenra and Pulmicort. Symbicort was down by 3% with the growth in emerging markets not fully
offsetting pricing pressure in the US and Europe. Volume growth continues and we remain the
global volume market share leader in the ICS/LABA class.US Symbicort sales were down by 4% and Europe was down by 8%. However, in Emerging
Markets Symbicort was up by 13%. Growth in China continued to be supported by the inclusion of
Symbicort in local guidelines in 2018 as the only ICS/LABA on the China essential drug list.
Pulmicort was up by 16%, the sales of the $383 million. Emerging markets was the driver of this
growth up 23%. Fasenra continue to perform, annualizing a $0.5 billion of sales, with $120 million
of sales in the quarter with the majority of the sales coming from the US., Germany and Japan.
In the US Fasenra is performing against new competitors with $93 million in sales. Europe and
Japan continue to deliver with $18 million and $16 million in sales respectively. Fasenra in the US.,
Japan and Germany maintained its market leadership in new patient share of novel biologicals.
Now, I will move to Emerging Markets. Please turn to slide 20. Emerging Markets continue to track
ahead of our long-term performance ambition, which is to grow sales on average by mid to high-
single-digits percentage with 22% sales growth overall. Again China delivered a very strong
performance this time with 28% growth. China clearly benefited from the addition of Tagrisso on
the National Reimbursement Drug List which took effect at the beginning of the year.
Outside, China, overall sales were up by 13% and especially Brazil delivered the strong quarter of
double-digit growth driven by Farxiga, Tagrisso and recently Lynparza. Finally the strong
performance was spread across our main therapy areas with a quarter of oncology sales coming
from emerging markets. New CVRM was up 40%, driven by Brilinta and Farxiga and respiratory
sales were up by 26% with Pulmicort as the key driver.
With this, I will hand over to Marc.
`Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Ruud, and hello everyone. I want to take you through our financial performance in the
quarter, as well as our financial priorities and guidance. Could you please turn to slide 22.
As usual I will begin with the reported P&L before turning to the core performance, as Pascal
mentioned earlier product sales grew by 14%, while there was minimal collaboration revenue in
this quarter. Other operating income of around $600 million included the impact including the
impact of divestment of right to Synagis for the United States.
Please turn to slide 23. Moving to the core P&L, our gross margin ratio improved by over 2
percentage points to 80.5% reflecting the phasing of our mix of sale. Operating cost which
increased by 5% in the quarter, represented 61% of total revenue which was a 4 percentage
point reduction versus the first quarter of last year. With product sales grows ahead of operating
cost, we are beginning to deliver operating leverage and our core operating profit margin
reached 30% supported by other operating income.
The core tax rate was 23%, impacted by the geographical mix of profits and disposals. Despite
the higher than average core tax rate, our core earnings per share doubled to $0.89,
underpinned by topline growth and cost leverage.
Please turn to slide 24. This is a slide I first showed you at the full-year results in February and I will
use it going forward to demonstrate our progress. It describes our financial journey and what our
priorities are. We are delivering strong and sustainable sales growth, driving operating leverage
and improving our margin and profitability, but the story will not stop there. Our focus will be on
taking this down to generate in 2020 more cash so that we can direct to deleveraging our
balance sheet and toward our progressive dividend policy.As mentioned at full-year results for 2018 in February and looking at this year, our cash from
operations plus divestments income will be broadly in line with 2018. However, there will be a
number of one --off cash payments reflected in cash flows from investing activities relating to
prior business development transaction. A significant proportion of this payment was met in the
first quarter.
As a result of the equity raise, we anticipate a reduction in net debt from the second quarter. The
purpose of the equity raise was to fund the initial upfront and near-term milestone commitments
arising from the collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo as well as to strengthen AstraZeneca's balance
sheet. One of the company capital allocation priorities is to maintain a strong investment grade
credit rating. The share issuance strikes an appropriate balance between the company equity
investors and creditors.
I am confident that our growing product sales and operating leverage will drive much improved
cash generation above the cycle and I'm looking forward to updating you on our progress in the
future.
Please turn to slide 25. Finally, I would like to reiterate our guidance for 2019 which is on product
sales and core EPS at constant exchange rate. With the patent cliff now behind us, I expect
product sales to grow by a high single digit percentage. It is worth noting that the tough
comparisons we have on product sales in the second half of the year. With operating leverage
and a core tax rate of 18% to 22% in 2019, anticipate growth in Core EPS between $3.50 and
$3.70.
Outside of guidance, I also expect a reduction in the totality of collaboration revenue and other
operating income. Core operating expense, I expect it to increase by low single-digit percentage,
with Core operating profit anticipated to increase by mid-teens percentage. Lastly capital
expenditure is expected to be broadly stable, and we are also targeting a reduction in
restructuring charges.
With that I will now hand over to Mene.
`Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, R&D BioPharmaceuticals `
Please turn to slide 26. Thank you, Marc and good afternoon, everyone. I'm delighted to be here
today to provide an update on the progress in the pipeline since our last announcement. I'm also
joined today by my counterpart `Jose Baselga, Executive VP & President of Research & Development to discuss the Oncology pipeline and our upcoming
news flow. Firstly, and this is something, I'm very passionate about, like to take a moment to
speak about the improvements in our R&D productivity over the past few years.
Please turn to slide 27. As you know, we're committed to the productivity and quality of our
science across the portfolio. And I'm just wanting to highlight a few examples of the progress that
we've made over the past five years in our attempt to bring new and better medicines to patient.
Firstly, the number of accepted high-impact publications has increased 10 fold to over a 100 in
2018. This is a clear measure of the high quality of science as to underpinning the research and
development in our organization.
Secondly, the number of Phase II projects has increased by a third. And with this, we've also
achieved 30 projects with validated proof of mechanism in the same period. Again, this is
demonstration of quality of the molecules we're putting into the clinic, which improves the
providence of transitioning them from early development too late.Finally, we've received more than 50 regulatory designations in major markets. And I'm very
proud of what we achieved in 2018. It was a record-breaking year with both new molecular
entities and major lifecycle programs seeing 23 major market approvals in total. The most ever
attained in one year in AstraZeneca's 20 year history. Please turn to Slide 28. In respiratory, our
partners, Circassia, received US regulatory approval for Duaklir, a medicine for the treatment of
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. In the same indication, we also listed regulatory
submission acceptance for the inhaled triple combination medicine, PT010. During the quarter,
we received US Orphan-drug designation for saracatinib. This is a potential new medicine for
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a devastating diagnosis that results from the scarring of the lung,
and this program could initiate in Phase II later in the year.
Regarding Fasenra, we intend to build upon its fast onset unique model of action and strong
efficacy seen in severe asthma with an extensive lifecycle program across a variety of
eosinophilic-driven diseases. This will include eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis and
hypereosinophilic syndrome, both of which recently received US Orphan Drug Designation. I'm
glad I said that properly. Please turn to Slide 29. Now focusing on new cardiovascular, renal and
metabolism. Farxiga received approvals for the treatment of type 1 diabetes in both Europe and
Japan this quarter and regulatory submission acceptance for the declared cardiovascular
outcomes trials in both the US and the EU We also received label inclusion for Bydureon's CVOT
safety data in the US and Brilinta's THEMIS trial met the primary endpoint in patients with coronary
artery disease and type 2 diabetes.
Last month, we were pleased to see favorable guideline updates from the American Heart
Association and the American College of Cardiology recommending the SGLT2 inhibitor class,
including Farxiga, as primary prevention against cardiovascular events. This is truly important for
diabetic patients who tend to be at higher risk of developing cardiovascular disease. We have a
really solid lifecycle program for Farxiga, which includes the trials Dapa-HF, DAPA-CKD and deliver,
looking at heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, chronic kidney disease and heart failure
with preserved ejection fraction, respectively. DAPA-HF is now expect to readout this year, earlier
than we previously anticipated. It's important to remember that all of these lifecycle opportunities
are in both diabetic and non-diabetic patients aiming to establish Farxiga as a cornerstone
treatment for cardio, renal and metabolic diseases.
Please turn to Slide 30. Finally, I wanted to take a moment to focus on roxadustat, the first-in-
class hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor, HIF-PHI. And potential neural medicine
for patients with anemia caused by chronic kidney disease, CKD As a reminder, in December
2018, we and FibroGen received Chinese regulatory approval for roxadustat in the dialysis setting
and the regulatory decision in the nondialysis independent setting anticipated in China later this
year.
Late last year, we also announced the Phase III OLYMPUS and ROCKIES trials matched their
primary endpoints. During the second quarter, we're expecting the aggregated safety data
across the whole program, the combination of programs between Astellas, FibroGen and
ourselves. The totality of evidence from these trials will help inform our regulatory interactions,
and we now expect to make a US regulatory submission in the second half of this year.
Thank you all for listening. Now I will now hand over to Jose. Please turn to Slide 31.
`Jose Baselga, Executive VP & President of Research & Development `
Thank you, Mene. And hello to everybody on the call. My name is `Jose Baselga, Executive VP & President of Research & Development, and I'm very
excited to speak to you here on our results call today for the first time.I'd like to start reporting on another successful quarter for oncology and also giving some insights
in that we're preparing for a very busy second half of 2019. Since the last full year results, some
new highlights include the regulatory approval in the EU of Lynparza in BRCA-mutated metastatic
breast cancer and also the positive high-level results from POLO. This is Lynparza's Phase III trial in
BRCA mutated metastatic pancreatic cancer. In the POLO trial, Lynparza met its primary endpoint
of progression-free survival as the first-line maintenance monotherapy in patients with germline
BRCA-mutated metastatic pancreas cancer, whose disease had not progressed on platinum-
based chemotherapy. We also announced that the results were not only positive but were also
clinically meaningful. The regulatory submission is anticipated to take place in the second half of
2019.
In addition, in the US, selumetinib has received a Breakthrough Therapy Designation in a very
debilitating disorder mostly in children in neurofibromatosis type 1.
Now if we move to upcoming presentations at ASCO, that's the middle column, we will present
updates on Tagrisso, on Lynparza and on Imfinzi. And we also have new data on capivasertib,
which is our oral -- novel oral selective Akt inhibitor, which will enter Phase II, Phase III study soon.
On the final part of the slide on the right, this is the news flow in the second half of this year. It's
going to be busy for Imfinzi. We anticipate data readouts in the metastatic setting for a number
of tumor types, including non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, head and neck and
bladder cancer. For Lynparza, we are expecting to have Phase III data readouts in prostate and in
first-line all-comers ovarian cancer. And then lastly, Calquence is anticipated to have two pivotal
Phase III CLL trial readouts in front line and in the relapsed/recurrent disease setting also in the
second half.
Let's turn to Slide 32, and I would like to spend some time on a very exciting compound that you
have heard already from Pascal. On March 29th, we announced a strategic collaboration in
oncology with Daiichi Sankyo for Trastuzumab deruxtecan. This is an antibody-drug conjugate
which we feel strongly that is potentially transformative for the treatment of breast cancer
another tumor types. This new medicine will add to our rich heritage in breast cancer. It has a
unique structure that delivers a higher intensity chemotherapy from the well-established tecan
family.
I'd like to make the point here that this payload is very unique, unlike other ADCs. And not only
that, but it provides more payload on each antibody has a very high ratio of payload per
molecule. It also has -- upon being cleaved and has a very unique linker that is very stable until it's
been internalized. But when it's cleaved, this drug has high-membrane permeability that
potentially contributes to its high efficacy in the HER2-low and in the HER2-mutant cancer. Now if
we look at the data that is available in a large -- in a very large Phase 1 study. It has shown robust
unprecedented duration of response of over 20 months Together with a response rate close to
60% in a very heavily pre-treated HER2 population. These patients had received seven lines of
therapy as a median.
Now in addition to the activity in HER2-high, the data obtained in HER2-low also shows promising
response rate of 47% and duration of response of 11 months also unprecedented in this
population. Trastuzumab deruxtecan has already been granted Breakthrough Therapy
Designation status in the US in the third-line HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. We
anticipate to have data coming along. We're going to have the data of the Phase III trial, the so-
called DESTINYBreast01 study in the second half of this year with the regulatory submission of the
biologics license application in the US in the same timeframe.Let's now move to Slide 33, where I'd like to summarize some of the key new flow items still to
come across all therapy areas. Mene mentioned earlier that the pool safety data of roxadustat is
expected during the second quarter with the US regulatory submission now anticipated in the
second half of 2019. Now let's look at the data on the different key readouts, including key
regulatory submissions and potential regulatory decisions. If we focus first in oncology, for
Tagrisso, we are expecting a regulatory decision for its first-line use in China. And it is anticipated
in the second quarter. We also expect to have a final overall survival data for Tagrisso in first-line
use in the second half of the year.
Moving to immuno-oncology, we expect a regulatory decision, for Imfinzi in unresectable, Stage III
non-small cell lung cancer in China in the second half and also in the same time frame, for
Lynparza, we also anticipate regulatory decisions for the SOLO-1 trial in first-line BRCA-mutant
ovarian cancer in the EU, Japan and China.
If now we move to CVRM. For Farxiga, we expect to receive regulatory decision in type I diabetes
in the US and a regulatory decision regarding the inclusion of cardiovascular outcome data for
DECLARE during the second half of the year. We also plan to submit data from THEMIS, Brilinta's
cardiovascular outcomes trial in coronary artery disease and Type 2 diabetes for regulatory
review in the second half of the year. And lastly, in respiratory, we hope to receive a regulatory
decision for PT010 in COPD in China and Japan in the second half of the year and see data from
the ETHOS trial. We also anticipate regulatory decisions for Fasenra's self-administration and
auto-injector in the US and EU, for Symbicort in mild asthma in the US and for Bevespi in COPD in
Japan and China in the second half of the year.
Now if we turn to Slide 34, and this is an important slide. I'd like to present our rich mid-stage
pipeline, and we are going to be selecting some -- we're going to show some selected
molecular entities. Last quarter, Mene presented an introduction with insights into some of our
new medicines that will shape our future over the next five years.
Going back to Pascal's point, these are potential new medicines with opportunity for sustainable
sales through use in clinical practice, and the number has expanded following internal reviews. We
now have a quality, breadth and depth to our mid-pipeline, which begins to gain pace with the
initiation of the Phase III program in asthma for PT027 and also, as I mentioned already, for
Trastuzumab deruxtecan. We look forward to providing you with more updates through the year
for the year, Thank you, everyone, for your ongoing support, and thanks to all the colleagues in
AstraZeneca are hot hard to continue to deliver new medicines to patients. I have been
extremely encouraged by the level of enthusiasm and expertise and science that I've seen so far.
And with that, I will now hand back to Pascal for closing comments. Pascal?
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jose. So in the interest of saving time for Q&A, I'll skip the last slide and just remind
you product sales grew by 14%, and operating profit is up 96% with an operating margin of 30%.
We reconfirmed our guidance for the year, and our pipeline is making good progress.
So with that, we'll now move to the Q&A. For those on the phone please remember to press star
one to ask your questions. We'll also take written questions from the webcast. Can I please again
ask everyone to try to stick to one question per person, thank you and we'll now get started with
`Richard Parkes, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank. Richard over to you.
Questions And AnswersA - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
(Question And Answer)
Q - `Richard Parkes, Deutsche Bank `
Hi, thank you very much for taking my question. Since I'm first, I'll ask the inevitable cash flow
question and it's got to pass and unfortunately so. And obviously the decision to raise equity is
part of the Daiichi collaboration, has raised your focus on cash flow and your balance sheet. And I
think that was triggered by the decision to raise more cash than was required for the initial
upfront and milestone. So I just wondered if you could talk about that decision. And was that
driven by the fact that the rating agencies take into account the longer-term milestones when
they're looking at your rating? Or was it because you're seeing these additional payments from
legacy business development and so impacting cash flow in the short term? So that's the first
part.
The second part is just on the cash flow in the first quarter, and you've given some clarity on that
in the release. Obviously, it's still a significant negative in the first quarter and you look at working
cap short-term provisions and non-cash movements of more than $1 billion negative. Can you
help us to understand those and get a sense of how those will develop for the full year. Thanks
very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. So I think that the line was not really good, but hopefully, we captured the two
parts of your question. The first relate to the equity raise, and the second relates to the cash flow
itself and some other negative movements in the cash flow statement. Marc, do you want to
cover both of those?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Let me start. Richard, thank you very much for this two informative questions. So the first one
on the equity. So we are-- as we have said, the equity was -- the purpose of the equity was to pay
for the upfront and the milestones in the early years for the Daiichi Sankyo product right [ph]
acquisition as well as to strengthen our balance sheet as we are--we have a repayment of $1
billion bonds in September of this year. So this is exactly where we explained it.
Now turning to your question on the credit rating agencies. They tend to look at the cash flows
and other -- a lot of financial metrics usually within a 12 to 24 months horizon. So they are
informed and well aware of our 2019 cash flow progression. You will certainly remember that the
full year results in February of this year, I have flagged that in 2019, we would have a larger
proportion of business development payments to be made. Some of them linked to deals that
we have done recently, but some others linked to the deals that are much older. In particular, we
have had a substantial payment for a true-up of a joint venture with Merck in the United States
that started in 1988 for Nexium. So some of them are recent, some of them are more historical.
So that, I think, answers the situation of why the credit rating agencies were looking at our credit
rating with some level of scrutiny.
Turning to the current quarter cash flow, and what can we learn from the quarter cash flow for the
full year. So first of all, we have to be very much aware that quarter to quarter cash flow
comparisons are very delicate. You could have in one quarter a positive, and you can have similar
quarter the following year a negative and of course this exacerbates the difference. And I think
the quarter one of 2019 is a very good example. We have, as I've just described, the true-up withMerck for historical joint venture. This was negative of $400 million. In 2018, we had a positive for
litigation that we had settled. This, so you have one -off on one side, one off from the other side.
This we have both of about $400 million each. So you have a valuation in that quarter of $800
million, which of course, is not reflective of the progression of our profitability.
So this is why quarter-to-quarter comparisons are very delicate. Now, if you go for the full year,
this is a bit less viable, but still you could have some viability. So we have said that in 2019, we will
have more cd payments, then we have had in the past. And therefore, we said that the results of
cash flow for 2019 will not be as good as they have been in 2018. And I think I can confirm again
the same today.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, Richard, did you have anything else you wanted to ask?
Q - `Richard Parkes, Deutsche Bank `
No. That's great. Thank you
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks for your question. So we'll move `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Mark, over to you.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thank you, Pascal. Good afternoon. As part of the ongoing US., China trade talks it's been
reported that China has offered US Pharma companies eight years of regulatory data protection
in China for the biologics they develop. Pascal, what are your thoughts on this and other potential
offsets to the political agenda which is driving earlier and more rapid uptake of innovative
medicines in China?
And if I may just a point of clarification on the last question. Could you tell us which year the
dividend is going to be covered by cash flow before financing activities, and which year is going
to mark the start of a sustained improvement on your net cash position before M&A and
internalization consideration? So just link my last question and add a comment that you made at
the beginning of the call. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks, Mark. So the first question, as it relates to China, I will really start by saying that
everything we've seen happening over the last year or two in China goes in the right direction,
quite frankly. I mean and I could least, for instance, the government is really protecting, going in
the direction of protecting IP respecting IP rights, at least in our industry. There's an emergence
of an innovative industry in China, and of course, that's something that can only develop and
flourish with an IP system in place. So clearly China is focused on IP rights.
And we've seen acceleration of review and approval of new innovative medicines, which is a real
positive. We've seen funding being deployed to reimbursing and facilitating access to new
innovative medicines like Tagrisso, Farxiga, which quite frankly not long ago nobody would havethought would be reimbursed. On the other side, we've seen -- of course, we've seen the
emergence of generics and the price pressure on older products.
So you can see China transitioning to a model that is more aligned with what we see in the
western world and driven by innovation, quite simply. We've seen that coming since quite some
time and we've spent a lot of time and effort preparing for it and accelerating the development
of our new products. Now as it relates to this ongoing discussions between the US and China, I
would think that it is a little bit early to comment I think we should wait until these discussions
conclude. But again I think the fact that we are debating 8 years or 10 years or more is actually
reflecting that there is a discussion around IP rights, which is a good one, good discussion to
have. I would only say that the gold standard really for biologics protection is 12 years.
International norm started to establish itself around 10 years. That's what you see in this recent
agreement between the US and Canada and Mexico. So I can only say that I would hope that
China and the US can agree on 10 years, but we'll have to wait till the end of these discussions.
But really, I think I would look at it with a positive approach really. I mean the discussion reflects
really good progress on IP protection. So dividend, Marc, do you want to cover that?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So I did not understand your question very clearly, but I assume that you wanted to ask about
the payment of the dividend in 2020.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Sorry. I would just repeat it. The question was just based on what Richard is asking, some of
the concerns that which year will the dividend be covered by cash flow before financing activities?
And which year will mark the start of a sustained improvement in your net cash position before
considerations around M&A and internalization?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Very good. So I think the -- so first of all, one remark on the underlying trend. Obviously, the
continuous margin expansion and operating leverage will lead to a better cash generation from
2020. So as we -- regarding the share issuance and the relationship with the Daiichi Sankyo
investments, we have said that the share issuance was going to cover the upfront and that
milestone in the early years. So if we exclude the impact of Daiichi Sankyo, we anticipate to reach
a coverage of our dividend in 2020. So first. And then the job will not be finished. We will continue
to work on an increasing profitability, increasing operating leverage and margin expansion from
2020 onwards.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark I mean, I think, Marc, we can only -- `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley, that this we can only reconfirm what
we've told you before. I mean, there's no change to what we've said. We will basically cover the
dividend from 2020, start reducing that from 2021. And as Marc, has in a way that he said a
minute ago, essentially the equity issuance will enable us to cover the cash outlays related to this
DS-8201asset which again I think people will learn to appreciate the significance of this asset and
its enormous potential.
So let's move to `Andrew Baum, Citi at Citi. Andrew over to you.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `Thank you. First question, relates to something you've already touched on in AstraZeneca's
success and building a very sizable pipeline. By your own admission, I think you call out 157
projects. I'm counting around 133 for Roche. You spend about $5 billion per annum, they spend
$10 billion. Without getting to hang up on the absolute numbers and talking about progressive
success, I guess what I'm getting at is, could you give us some indication on the rate of increase
for R&D spend given the opportunities in front of you?
And then related to that, could you talk about the extent to which there can be much further
privatization of your portfolio including throughout licensing, especially now given the integration
of MedImmune? And then separately, if Susan is on line or to Jose, there's now been two sets of
data with PARP inhibitors showing the prostate cancer having ATM mutations are not PARP-
responsive, and this is obviously part of the population for their primary endpoints of your
profound trial, which reports at the end of this year. How do you think about the (inaudible)and
the size of the market in the event this pans out within that trial? And apologies for the second
question.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Andrew. And that's great two great questions. So maybe what I would propose, Mene, if
you could cover the first one, and then if Jose or (inaudible)I'll ask the mother of these great
medicine, Lynparza, to answer the second question. If that's ok?.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President and President, Research & Development `
Yes. So size of the pipeline, so as you articulate, we do have a rich array of molecules that push
the therapy areas in early to mid-stage. And I think the key actually is generating confidence in the
data set that enable you to be comfortable and confident moving into late stage development,
where obviously the big investments are made. So I think rigorous prioritization, which is
something that we're actively doing on a regular basis, and then making sure that we ask really
good questions in our development to demonstrate proof of mechanism, early signs of efficacy
so that when we move things into Phase III, we have a high probability of successfully launching
the medicines. I think is key, and it's a much better place to be than not having enough molecules
in your pipeline, we're actually just moving this forward because you can't And then the surplus
molecules that we have, if there are things with low priority, Andrew, absolutely, we would out
license them. We'll work out how to partner them in a way to get them to patients as fast as
possible.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And we're on this process, Andrew, of privatizing a few mid-stage projects and accelerating them
to the extent we can and doing this prioritization and selection of the most promising project.
But I think that, as Mene said, we should keep in mind, our productivity has increased. And we
have been able with the low R&D budget to deliver a very rich pipeline relative to some of our
competitors. But still, we need to continue prioritizing Lynparza to them.
A - Susan Galbraith -- Senior Vice President
Okay. Thanks Andrew, for the question. The one thing to know is there will be more data that's
coming out from expanded data set from (inaudible) at ASCO coming up, so look for that from
Johann de Bono's Group. And clearly across the panel of genes that can produce homologous
repair and recombination and deficiency. There is some variation in the relative sensitivity to pop
inhibition. Nonetheless, we've got very good strong proof of principle from the data in theeventual type (inaudible) and the patients with ATM loss do have activity as theme with long and
durable responses, where the last group treatment.
So one thing to bear in mind is the testing for ATM As with all of these big genes, I think there's
probably increased sensitivity when you've got biallelic loss rather than just monoallelic loss. I
think, so getting the testing right is important. We've taken that consideration into account when
we've designed the studies that we have ongoing. So we remain confident that the study is
designed well to look for the size of benefit that has been powered to detect across the patients
that were enrolled.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So thanks, to them. So let's move to Naresh Chouhan at Intrinsic Health, Naresh has a
question that is asked online. I think it's for you, Dave. And the question -- I will read the question
so everybody can benefit from it, then and it is, please can you help us to understand the
slowdown in Tagrisso? I guess the question relates to the US mainly. Underlying demand only
grew mid-single digits quarter-on-quarter, but penetration is only 60%. Some discussion about
where you expect penetration to peak --to pick at would be helpful.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive VP and President, Oncology `
Great, thanks Pascal, and thanks for the question. I think first to start with, so I think you're pointing
out that in the US that there was a decline in the sequential growth quarter-over-quarter. I do
think that it's important to point out that obviously the year-over-year growth of Tagrisso has
been quite tremendous. And I think that given where we are in the launch of Tagrisso, we're quite
pleased with mid- to high single-digit demand. We look at the demand is that the primary
measure of the health of the brand, and at the end of the year, there are always inventory
movements and one-offs. And you'll recall that we have described that is happening in the fourth
quarter last year within China. And we saw China rebound back quite nicely, as we said that it
would in the first quarter this year.
I think the other piece that I'd like to highlight here is, is that I think what you see is also the
strength of the diversity of the geographies that we operate in. And again here, you saw
sequential growth globally of 6% for Tagrisso. And I've been working in oncology a long time. You
see these S curves, where the goal is you get as rapidly up the adoption curve as possible in
various regions. And you know that US Will be first And usually, Japan and Europe follow on the
heels of that, and then China comes after that, So on your question about what's the top
penetration that we can expect, TKIs, as a class have about 80% to 85% penetration of the front
line market space. There are remarkably still patients despite TKIs having been on the market for
decades that are still getting chemotherapy. Our even IO/ chemo as their first therapy. That's part
of our educational effort. But that's what I'd look at in terms of what the maximum potential of the
classes.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. So `Jo Walton, Credit Suisse at Credit Suisse is next in line. Jo go ahead.
Q - `Jo Walton, Credit Suisse `
I wonder if I could just return to China and get a little bit more information about it Sanofi pointed
in their strong results in China today to a pull-through of demand into 1Q that would otherwise
have been in 2Q because there's change to value-based pricing. I wonder if you felt that there
was any distortion in your numbers, and then as you reflect on how things go going forward,should we see -- are there any particular products where we should see a decline in growth And I
wonder if you could also help us by giving us the absolute sales of Tagrisso in China. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jo. So I'll ask Dave if he have the number to answer the second question. The first
question is clearly no. We haven't had any effect, as you described that Sanofi mentioned. In fact,
I would say it was the other way around as we are concerned. We had an inventory decrease in
Q1. And at the end of Q1, our trade inventory is frankly the lowest it can get to. I mean we cannot
get lower, or we would have supply issues. So we have very low inventory in the trade in China.
We haven't seen that effect. In fact, again, we have had an inventory decline, so the Tagrisso
question in China. Dave, to you.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive VP and President, Oncology `
Yes. So Jo, we don't share the specific sales levels our individual brands within China. What I can
say is that we certainly saw a very nice increase in oncology sales in the emerging markets,
oncology sales growth of 43%, and Tagrisso was a significant contributor to that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. So Keyur Parekh. Keyur, go ahead.
Q - Analyst
Thank you. Two questions please. The first one, coming back to cash flow for Marc. Marc, when
you talk about covering the dividend in 2020 from operational cash flow is that pre or post CapEx
annual royalty payments to Bristol and (inaudible)things like that. Just linked with that how -- what
is it that is likely to change so dramatically over between kind of the cash you're generating today
versus 12 months' time. But inherently what you're talking about is an increase in quarterly cash
flow generation of about a $1 billion. So just if you can help us bridge the gap that would be
great? And then secondly, Dave to just a clarification on your comment regarding the Imfinzi
growth outlook. I just want to make sure I heard you right that saying you -- we should be thinking
about Imfinzi growth in the near-term as being driven by ex-US rather than the US, thank you.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So, on the cash flow, so what I just said a few minutes ago that since we have used these share
issuance to cover the upfront for -- the upfront and early milestones for Daiichi Sankyo, I'm
looking at the coverage of the dividend excluding the impact of the Daiichi Sankyo product
acquisition. So you need to remember this caveat. The coverage of the dividend will be done
after CapEx, after restructuring expenses, after the normal outflows, but excluding the impact of
the cash payments related to Daiichi Sankyo.
I'm sorry. And then why is it -- I guess why is it getting better? Well, I think I have also outlined that
for 2019, we have reasonably high level of payments for business development deals, some of
them we have done in 2018. Some of them we have done much earlier. And I mentioned the true
up with our joint venture with -- historical joint venture with Merck in the US But also we have
some molecules which are progressing for the development momentum, and hopefully some will
be approved, and they are milestones, which are accompanying these regulatory approvals in the
course of 2019. So I see it as a good news in a way, because we knew these products will reach
market expansion.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So two effects really. Okay, I mean the obvious one is the improvement of our operating margin
that flows down to the cash flow. And the second, as Marc said, some of these one-off payments
will decline. And remember, in Q1 or this year, we had a big one, $400 million relating to next
year, and which is a 20 or 30-year old joint venture, and the final milestone relating to the and
undoing of this JV.
I think there was a question on Tagrisso for you, yes?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive VP & President of Oncology Business `
So it's on Imfinzi actually. So Keyur, the first part, we -- I certainly have expectation for continued
growth within the US, but I do think that growth rate on a percentage basis sequentially is going
to be lower than what we've seen. We saw a fairly significant catalyst with the overall survival data
at ESMO. And we saw sequential growth rate of 27% on the heels of that within the US And we
saw a lower rate in the mid-single digits in terms of the growth rate that we saw at 7% within
terms of sales in the US We see CRT rates now really well above 50%, probably getting close to
60% within that. We think that there's some opportunity for continued growth there, but we're
also under the belief and we listen to what the physicians are speaking through. I think that there
are patients for whom CRT just isn't a viable option, and so that's probably getting close to near
where its max is.
Again, we also see opportunity for continuing to have more patients treated within Imfinzi post-
CRT, but we have a greater opportunity to get to US levels of performance outside of the US We
have just recently launched within Japan, where we saw really strong uptake in the quarter. And
we're encouraged by the trajectory that we come into to Q2 on. in Europe, recent approval, and
we're starting to see reimbursement coming on board, where demand is increasing in Germany,
increasing within France, and we're still yet to see reimbursement in a number of other countries.
So US growth still there, other markets outside of the US have an opportunity to get to the US
levels, and that was the comment that I was making.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. The next question is online.
Q - Analyst
Pascal, sorry, just a clarification to Mark's answer.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
officer I mean, is that I'm just thinking I forgot to answer the second part of Jo's question about
China a minute ago. She was asking what product could be impacted moving forward on negative
basis. And as I said, the second half in China would be impacted by some of those new policies
of tendering products that are patent-expired. So I would say that the one product that you could
see being impacted in the second half would be Crestor because we lost a tender. In fact, as you
probably noticed, the older tenders that were issued in China, only one tender went to a big
international, multinational company, and that's us with Iressa. But we did lose the Crestor tender.
So suddenly that product would be impacted.
So the online question relate to PACIFIC II, and it is do you still estimate that the PACIFIC ineligible
population due to progression after chemo that could become eligible based on PACIFIC II, Is stilla 25% or are you seeing a low on them, but in the real world given the difficulties associated with
defining progression in this setting and the variability of infringe as an option? And this is a
question from Marietta. It's for you, Dave.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive VP & President of Oncology Business `
And so, Marietta, on this question, I guess the main focus for PACIFIC II is testing the hypothesis
that can we actually get more patients through CRT and those that progress or drop out within it.
The rate that you're using there is a reasonable on. In terms of what we see of patients that while
initiating therapy do drop out. Now I think that may be implied within this is, is another question,
which is we do not promote to this, but we do see that there are physicians that are utilizing
Imfinzi in patients post maybe just radiotherapy or if they're not able to actually give a full course
of CRT in the way that they want to for tolerability reasons. But again, that's a minority of use that
we're seeing. And I think that PACIFIC II provides us the opportunity to be able to give evidence in
the setting, which we do believe is an important area of opportunity.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Dave. So we'll take our last two questions. Hopefully, we can deal with them within the
time, and okay to do a bit behind time. So the first one is Seamus Fernandez at Guggenheim.
Seamus, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Seamus Christopher Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities `
Yes. Thanks for the question. So maybe just if I could make one suggestion, and then I'll follow-up
with a question. But just in terms of the cash flow dynamics, I think it would be helpful to
everybody if we had a slide or a schedule of potential payments going forward so people can
understand more clearly the specifics around cash flow dynamics that's become an overt focus
relative to the future growth of the company. So just a suggestion there.
And then separately, my question really is in terms of our thoughts around the growth opportunity
for the overall portfolio and the various programs that you have studied outside of the Daiichi
Sankyo program. Which programs are you particularly excited about to really improve cash flow
going forward? I think probably the biggest focus right now is on roxadustat? And I feel like that
program maybe isn't appropriately understood in terms of where the pushes and pulls are for
roxadustat. So I'd really love to know a little bit more of AstraZeneca's thoughts around that
program and how you drive the opportunity in anemia. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. First of all, the comment so thank you. The question growth opportunities is
least of -- I mean not least. There's more than one of (inaudible) an important one. We will have
SOLO-1. We'll have a lot of -- well, we'll have, well, PT010. But it's probably more for 2021 and
beyond in term of cash flow generation. But -- so roxadustat, we will have Lokelma that we have
to launch. We'll have some of our I/O readouts. So there's quite a few. But maybe what we could
do is focus a little bit on roxa Seamus focused on it. Or do you want to say a few words about the
opportunity there?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals `
Yes, of course. First of all, we need to see the safety analysis, and we have said that it will be
done in the first half of this year. But the opportunity, of course, is very substantial both in the
dialysis segment. Not to give you a few numbers, roughly, there are 600,000 patients in theUnited States on dialysis. It's growing. But the -- especially, the nondialysis population is at least 4
times or 5 times bigger than that.
And at the moment, in the nondialysis setting, only iron ore, iron ore, IVR is used because of the
black box warning of EPO. Equally, the opportunity in China is very substantial. In China, roughly,
there are 800,000 patients on dialysis, who already have secured approval in that indication, and
we are doing our best in order to get on NRDL as we speak. So we need to wait and be more
patient, but we will launch roxadustat in the second half of 2019.
So all in all, depending, of course, of the outcome of the safety analysis, we feel very good about
this opportunity. And that the medical need is very, very substantial, but we just need to be a bit
more patient in order to see the full data set.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Ruud. I mean -- and maybe that gives me an opportunity to make a comment on this
that assets, because I know some of you have been wondering when is it coming, and we
communicated earlier that it would be first half, and we're on track on this. You have to keep in
mind that it's a very complex database. I mean it's -- first of all, large database, the old studies.
But importantly, it's not your standard one company sort of analysis. We have 3 companies
involved. So we have to consolidate all of these.
FibroGen is taking the lead, of course, consolidating these. Then when it is all done, we'll have to
have the 3 companies working together to analyze the data and agree on the conclusion. So this
is not a very simple exercise but certainly of course as soon as we have the results, we're very
well aware of the obligations here, we will communicate those results immediately when we
know the safety analysis.
So with that, maybe `Sachin Jain, Bank of America at Bank of America. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
Hi `Sachin Jain, Bank of America, Bank of America. One question on roxa and then one clarification. On roxa, Slide
13, I know I'm over interpreting, but will it be 1 safety press release or 2? Because you referenced
the pooled safety analysis followed by totality of evidence. So is there a splitting of the CV versus
a broader safety update or am I over interpreting that?
And then just the second question just on -- back to the cash flow, the BD payments. Marc, just to
clarify, you had said that the predominant payments were in 1Q. In your prepared remarks and an
answer to a prior question, you said there were further payments across this year. And so is it fair
to assume that the further payments are smaller than the $400 million for Nexium? And is there
any larger payments you could call out? For example, I know you're due $600 million on
development milestones on roxa. So should that be positive? Would we expect that cash outflow
this year? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sachin. So the first question, maybe I can cover. The second question, Marc, you would
cover. The first question, very quickly. Again, I can only repeat to what I said a minute ago, Sachin,
it's that it's a very complex data consolidation, 3 companies involved. The lead, the partner here
is FibroGen. This is their product. We take their lead, and so we're working as fast as we can. But
today, I can't answer your question in the end whether we will have a 50--50 -- CV safety analysis
that we release. So we will release everything in one go. It will depend on how quickly we can getthose analysis completed. And of course, we know everybody is focused on the CV safety. So as
soon as we have this, we know we have to release it. Ideally, we would release everything in one
go. But it may be that we have 2 sets of data releases. Again, we're going to have to take our
lead from FibroGen on that one.
Marc, do you want to cover the --
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So as I said, there won't be a payment as large as the true-up for the joint venture with
Merck late during the year, but there will be multiple other commitment that we'll have to satisfy
and pay, and I described most of them. They are usually milestones of some form of success,
progression of a development program, approval of that development program. So they are --
there is still a quite a few program that we will have to pay for in 2019. But we have also given an
indication that the spend into the outlay in 2019 first quarter was relatively large quarter. So I think
from there, you can probably project the rest of the year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, that's an important piece. And the majority of this large payment is just taking place in Q1.
So maybe the last one question because we are out of time, unfortunately. There's a few more
questions, but we'll take one last one online.
That relates to Tagrisso, Dave, for you, and it's saying that U.S. And Japan we are well penetrated
in the existing indications. China is the future key growth driver. And I would not underestimate
Europe or so. I mean, unfortunately, I have to say really unfortunate in Europe. Patients at the back
of the queue. They have to wait until a reimbursement is achieved. That's a sad reality of our
reimbursement system in Europe across all products in all markets, quite frankly. So they -- but we
are getting there in terms of getting second-line reimbursement. As soon as we can, we'll get
first-line. So Europe still has to make a contribution. But the question here relates to China. Where
is the China penetration now, Dave? And where do you see these verticals filling in?
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive VP and President, Oncology `
So let me take James' questions in reverse order. So in terms of the second line, which is where
we've got both the approval and the NRDL listing, we estimate that there are, within China, as
many as 80,000 patients. Now we take in our own mind about 20% to 25% access cut on that. So
we think that there is between 16,000 and 20,000 patients treated in the second line that have
the ability to really get access to.
We have a small percentage of those patients, and we've got opportunity for quite a bit of
continued growth, and that's just in the second line. So obviously, we look forward as well to
frontline indications, and then we'll be looking forward to frontline NRDL opportunity. So there's
really a tremendous amount of China opportunity for Tagrisso. And I can only reiterate what
Pascal said, which is that we still see quite a bit of frontline opportunity across the rest of the
globe, and I think it's important to look at the China numbers and the composition and see that it
is a product that really, U.S., Japan, China, Rest of World, all make important contributions, too.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And again, on China, remember, we have the tender. We won the tender for IRESSA. And it's
actually very important because coupon for IRESSA is important for first-line lung cancer patientsthe second-line market, and the opportunity there is still very large in China. And as Dave said,
we'll then move on to first-line, hopefully.
So we'll close here, and I would like to again thank you for your interest and repeat that we
believe we are very much on track with what we told you before. We're now focused on driving
this top line growth, taking it to the bottom line, improving our operating margin and improving
our cash flows. And what we have said to you before remains true.
And I also want to maybe close by saying this DS-8201 opportunity was a unique one, and
hopefully, over time, people do realize the potential of this agent, which is we believe enormous
and explains and justifies why we did this equity raise.
So with that, again thanks for your interest, and I wish you a good rest of the day.