Q3 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon. And welcome to the Novartis Q3 2019 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Audio Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the
presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions) A recording of
the conference call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our website shortly after the
call ends. (Operator Instructions)
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head-Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head-Investor Relations `Thank you very much, and good morning, and good afternoon, everybody. Thank you so much for
taking the time to join us for the investor call.
Before we start, I'll just read you the Safe Harbor statement. The information presented today
contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to the
company's Form 20-F on file with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for a description
of some of these factors.
With that, I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir, and thanks, everyone, for joining today's conference call. As you saw earlier
today, we announced what I think are really excellent results demonstrating the strong
operational performance happening at Novartis, our continued progress on our innovation, as
well as continuing to drive our strategic priorities, which we believe will drive sustainable long-
term top- and bottom-line growth.
When you go to slide -- the first slide, slide four. Just to give a little more color on what you all
saw earlier today, we had double-digit top- and bottom-line growth in the quarter. Sales were up
13%, core operating income up 18% and core margin up 1.4%. Harry will go through these
numbers in more detail, along with describing in a bit more detail as well our guidance increase,
where we increased both sales and core operating income guidance for the year.
Equally as important, we had strong innovation performance in the quarter. When you look at it,
we're on -- we are on track to potentially have four -- potentially five new molecular entities
approved in the United States, which really shows the kind of innovation power we have in the
company. Beovu was launched in the US, ofatumumab, of course, compelling efficacy in RMS, and
then a number of other key milestones, many of which we'll go through over the course of this
call.
So turning to the next slide. One of the important trends we want to start highlighting is how our
key growth drivers are increasingly contributing to our overall sales performance. When you look
at Innovative Medicine sales nine months to-date in 2019, we've grown now to have 28% of our
sales coming from our key growth drivers, and many of these key growth drivers have very strong
underlying dynamics as we'll talk about on the next slide.
In addition, our growth contribution is primarily coming from these growth drivers. We do have
some, of course, Gx erosion and -- but -- and then some other benefits. But overall, the primary
contributor to our growth year-to-date has been these key growth drivers, most of which are
recent launches.
Now, if you go to slide six, you can see in a bit more detail we had broad based strong growth
across our growth drivers, across the portfolio, whether that was in Pharmaceuticals with
Cosentyx, Entresto, Xiidra, Zolgensma in our cell and gene therapies efforts, and in oncology,
overall, so you see broad-based growth. So I think when you look at it overall, we're firing really
on all cylinders as a company in terms of driving our in-line brands and launched brands.
Now, if you go to the next slide, slide seven, diving in deeper into the individual products. Let's
start with Cosentyx. And in Cosentyx, we once again had a very strong quarter with 27% overall
sales growth, driven by both strong ex-US and US performance. Now first start talking a bit aboutdermatology. There, we see the market growing at 17% from a TRx standpoint and Cosentyx
continuing to grow ahead of the market at 32%, despite intensifying competition. So we believe
we're well placed. We also believe we will be well placed next year to maintain our first line
positioning and we'll be happy to answer more questions about that in the Q&A.
And then when you look in rheumatology, we also are continuing to have the strong growth
based on our strong underlying data where we grew at 36% versus a market that's growing at
15%. We had some positive news as well with an additional CHMP opinion on the higher dose, as
well as the PREVENT trial meeting primary endpoints at 16 weeks and 52 weeks.
To go into a little bit more detail on the next slide on where a Cosentyx is building a further
positions in the market. Our non-radiographic axial SpA data clearly shows the potential of
Cosentyx to move into a broader range of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. When you look at
the left-hand side of the chart, you can see there are 3.2 million patients with psoriatic arthritis, 1.7
million patients with ankylosing spondylitis and then an equal number of patients with non-
radiographic ankylosing axial spondyloarthritis. When you look at the biologics penetration in this
kind of early SpA group, there is biologics penetration of only 4% to 8%. So this is an exciting
opportunity for us now to take forward around the world.
We're also well-positioned beyond just the current rheumatology indications. When you look at
some of the data readouts we have, but importantly additional clinical trials we have in
hidradenitis suppurativa, pediatric indications, as well as additional new study starting in
rheumatology, including giant cell arthritis, we feel very confident in Cosentyx's longer-term
trajectory and we look forward to our R&D Day to give you more color on some of those
additional indication programs.
Now moving to the next slide with Entresto. With Entresto, we continue to see strong underlying
dynamics. Entresto revenues were up 61% with growth -- strong growth, both in the ex-US and US.
When you look at weekly TRxs, we are up 51%, Q3 2018 to Q3 2019. And as you can see from the
slope of the line, we just have this continued solid, steady uptake in TRx in the US, and we see a
similar trend in other key markets around the world. Now, both PROVE and EVALUATE at HF
provided additional mechanistic support for Entresto and we see that increasingly influencing
guideline bodies around the world. FDA also approved a pediatric indication for Entresto in Q4.
Now moving to the next slide. When you look at the PARAGON-HF study which we readout in Q3,
and I think, many of you already know these results as described at ESC, the preserved ejection
fraction heart failure population is the population that currently is completely unserved, and these
patients are looking for some treatment option. We narrowly missed the primary endpoint on the
overall population, but we had important subgroups, including at the subgroup of patients with an
ejection fraction up to 57%, as well as patient -- as well as female patients in the study who had
significant benefits.
So after discussions with the US FDA we now plan to move forward with a regulatory submission
for inclusion of data into the label in Q4 2019. We're continuing to engage in discussions with
Europe -- EU and other regulators to discuss how best to take forward this data. But we are
determined to try to find a way to reflect the benefits of Entresto in a broader patient population
in an appropriate way.
Now, if you go to slide 11. Zolgensma off to a strong start, as you saw, year-to-date, with sales of
$175 million since launch.
A few comments on access. I'm very proud of our access efforts within our team in the US.of Medicaid patients with a policy in place. Importantly, we are now still seeing 99% final approval
rates for patients that are on label after we go through the appropriate appeals processes.
We're seeing a solid demand in a broad base of institutions. Over 50 treating institutions now in
the US, including many leading academic centers of excellence have prescribed now Zolgensma.
And when you look at the patient profile, we're seeing patients across SMA types, the incident
and prevalent populations, as well as 50% patients coming from switches from the approved --
currently licensed product nusinersen.
So if you go to slide 12, looking forward for Zolgensma. I think, a general comment I'd say is, you
can expect, given that in Q3 we worked up through some of the pent-up demand for the
product, much of which we had also addressed through our managed access program, but there
was some pent-up demand still we were working through in Q3, we expect Q4 to be broadly in
line with Q3 for Zolgensma. But then moving forward, we see opportunities both in the US and
outside the United States.
First in the US, we expect this newborn screening climbs from 30% of newborns to 70% of
newborns or higher by the end of 2020. This will be an important additional growth driver for
Zolgensma. We also -- we -- and we know that two-thirds of incident patients treated in the
States with newborn screening are getting Zolgensma. So I think this is an important trend for us.
We also expect Medicaid policies to increasingly come into place over the coming 12 months,
including in Florida, New Jersey and Michigan. And many of you saw our interim strong data, which
really showed, I think, the strong profile of Zolgensma in SMA Type II patients, with impressive
scores on the HFMSE scoring for patients two years to five years of age.
Right now, from a regulatory standpoint, we are awaiting FDA feedback on BIC filing approach.
We have provided FDA with the dataset that we recently presented and are in discussions with
FDA on the appropriate approach to filing. For Zolgensma, in the current IV indication, we expect
CHMP opinion in Q1 2020. I know there are questions surrounding that. The primary reason for
that were an extensive set of questions with respect to the manufacturing in PMC. We have now
submitted those responses. But we need to continue to work through these responses with EMA
to get to the final positive opinion.
And then in Japan, we expect a decision in first half 2020. We, importantly, have early access
programs now in place in France, Portugal and Germany. So, overall, I think, Zolgensma well on
track to reach our longer term aspirations.
Now if you move to slide 13. Beovu is off to a strong start in the US. When you look at the US
launch at AAO with a highly competitive label. We're very excited about this medicine. We see it
as a medicine that provides benefits both with the possibility for patients to have fewer
intravitreal injections, but also important data with respect to visual and anatomical measures of
the disease. You have longer treatment intervals achievable without compromising efficacy. That's
a key differentiator for this medicine.
We have supportive label language on visual and anatomical measures which will enable us to
discuss the important data we have both with respect to retinal fluid and central retinal subfield
thickness, and we have an overall safety profile in line with comparator products on the market.
So taken together, we think this is a very compelling case. We can say that at least the early signs
are very positive on how the launch is already going. So we look forward to keeping you up-to-
date on how the Beovu US launch progresses.Now if you go to the next slide. We also have a broad comprehensive clinical trial program
ongoing to look both at potential new indications, as well as to better profile Beovu in the core
AMD indication. A few things to highlight here, and of course, we are happy to provide more
details in the R&D Day on this overall program. But when you look at the TALON study, it's a
head-to-head superiority study of Beovu versus aflibercept evaluating treatment interval duration
in an identical treat to control regimen. I think this is a study which shows our confidence in the
overall profile of the medicine.
We have the MERLIN study, which is a head-to-head non-inferiority study to cover the q4w
population, which we believe will be a small portion of patients that would need q4 dosing but
nonetheless one patient population we want to address. We also have a head-to-head
superiority study ongoing in PCV, which is another opportunity for us to continue to differentiate
the medicine. I think the key message here is, we have confidence in Beovu -- confidence in the
potential of this medicine to be a significant advance for patients with these diseases.
Now if you move to slide 15. Ofatumumab also readout in the quarter with, I think, really
extraordinary data. When you look at it, it now can be a high efficacy disease modifying therapy.
But our goal will be to position it, being able to be used early and broadly. We think of this as not
a medicine we're focused on competing within the B-cell space. We want patients with RMS to
have access to B-cell therapies as early as possible in their disease progression.
When you looked at the data, you saw strong efficacy results versus teriflunomide across a range
of different endpoints. I think all of you have seen that data. Also a highly competitive overall
profile, high efficacy, favorable safety profile, continue -- convenient subcutaneous injection with
an auto injector and no need for an infusion center. And our plan is to initiate worldwide
regulatory submission starting in Q4 2019.
One thing I wanted to clarify that may have been misunderstood from our press release, our US
filing is a filing, it's not a rolling submission. We only meant to imply that we will be rolling out our
submissions around the world over the course of the coming months. But our US filing is a straight
filing, complete filing that will happen in Q4 of this year.
So moving to slide 16. Now look -- turning to Mayzent. So with -- Mayzent, I think, as many of you
have seen, very strong market feedback, very strong interest from physicians and patients. It has
a unique label with unique data, the only medicine ever to be studied successfully in secondary
progressive -- active secondary progressive MS, with very strong data that we continue to roll out,
including recent data on cognitive processing speed, as well as a four-year delay to the need to
use a wheelchair. We are seeing strong interest in the medicine. 90% willingness to prescribe
over 2,600 request forms now and 150 million lives with preferred and unrestricted access.
Our key goal now is to enable a more rapid onboarding of these patients. We're seeing right now
about a 90-day lag between initial interest in the medicine and actually getting patients fully on
board with paid Rxs. We expect to work hard to shorten that timeline, as well as to work through
the backlog of patients, driving urgency to treat, simplify the onboarding, and we hope then to
be able to demonstrate further sales progress in the coming quarter. But overall, we think we're
in a solid place with respect to how the medicine is being perceived with the foundations now put
into place. We expect CHMP positive opinion in late Q4 2019.
Now moving to slide 17, now fevipiprant. Fevipiprant, today we announced the results of the ZEAL
1 and 2 study. But it's important to note where ZEAL 1 and 2 fit into the overall program. Our core
goal with fevipiprant was to study the medicine in severe asthma with a focus on high eosinophil
severe asthma, as other biologics have studied. That is the core -- a group of the LUSTER 1 and 2programs, with a further potential to look at patients who are low eosinophils in that study. That is
the core of the overall fevipiprant study program.
We also were asked to study, as is often the case with these programs, to study the medicine in
less severe patients using an FEV1 endpoint, and that was the ZEAL 1 and 2 programs in so-called
GINA 3/4 patients, so kind of moderate severity asthma patients. And there we saw no significant
improvements in FEV1 on top of the standard ICS+LABA regimen. But we saw a very clean safety
profile. It's important to note we only took the 150-milligram dose into this population, and we did
not stratify for eosinophils as well. So right now we are continuing to work through the completion
of the LUSTER program and look forward to reading out that program in full in Q1 2020.
Now moving to the next slide. Now switching gears to Oncology. While Oncology had a broad-
based outstanding performance with double-digit sales growth, I wanted to highlight that the
outstanding performance we had in terms of one of our launches, Piqray. So Piqray was launched
as the first and only therapy for advanced breast care patient -- breast cancer patients with
PIK3CA mutation.
When you look at the sales growth here, you can see a really strong uptake. 40% of patients with
hormone receptor-positive HER2-negative advanced breast cancer have a PIK3CA mutation. So
really our goal here was to ensure a broad-based uptake of the testing. And I think our teams in
the US have done an outstanding job, enable that -- enabling that testing to be broadly available.
We now expect CHMP positive opinion in the first half of -- CHMP opinion in the first half of 2020,
and our focus is to take Piqray into additional indications, including programs in HER2 positive
breast cancer, triple-negative breast cancer, head and neck cancers and ovarian cancers. So you
will see us continuing to work to expand the utilization of Piqray and we believe this medicine can
be a blockbuster over time.
Now moving to slide 19. We also released additional data on Kisqali, demonstrating the overall
survival benefit of this medicine as the only CDK4/6 inhibitor to demonstrate overall survival in
two Phase III trials. One important element to remember about Kisqali is, is we believe it is unique
in its profile and its ability to agonize the CDK4 part of this pathway. And with that unique profile,
we think that really enables us to have a mechanistic differentiation for Kisqali.
Now, our goal right now is to continue to educate the physician community about the
MONALEESA-3 and MONALEESA-7 data, particularly the 28% and 29% reductions in the risk of
death, and we'll look forward to further differentiating Kisqali with additional readouts, including
the MONALEESA-2 overall survival data which we will readout next year.
Now moving to slide 20. If you look at our overall 2019 expected milestones. I think we had a
great innovation performance year-to-date and we hope to carry that forward with a strong finish
to the year. You can see that we've reached nearly all of our milestones. A few milestones were
pushed into the first part of next year, but overall, I think, a very strong performance.
And when you go to slide 21, I wanted to just highlight a few of the catalysts. We expect a number
of key approvals next year, importantly, ofatumumab and Cosentyx in non-radiographic axial SpA,
but also SEG101 in sickle cell disease. A range of key submissions, we've already talked about
AVXS and fevipiprant. But we also will have the readout and hopeful submission of the data are
positive of Lu-PSMA, one of our ligand therapies for prostate cancer, as well as the submission of
our triplet combo with PDR001 and Mekinist and Tafinlar.
And lastly, a range of key readouts. We're excited to tell you more about our -- depth of our
portfolio in our R&D Day in early December. But a few to highlight, ABL001 and CML, which wealso now are planning to use in other lines of therapy. We also will have readouts in Beovu in DME;
a range of Phase II readouts. I'll note LNP023, which is our factor B inhibitor. We'll have data
presented at ASH, and I think, can eventually be a cornerstone therapy for PNH and renal
diseases. So a range of things going on and we'll provide more depth on those milestones in
early December.
So, with that, I'll hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. As always, my comments refer
to the results of the continuing operations and growth rates in constant currencies unless I note
otherwise.
So on slide 23, you see the summary of our quarter three and first nine months continuing
operation performance. As Vas said, our quarter three performance was excellent, with double-
digit sales growth, driving core operating income and strong cash flow of $4 billion.
Sales grew 13%, mainly driven by the continued momentum of key growth drivers as Vas laid out.
We also benefited from the first full quarter of the strong launch of Zolgensma and Piqray, as well
as the acquisition of Xiidra. Core operating income grew 18%, mainly driven by sales and also
productivity program impacts. You'll see a similar pattern on year-to-date results. Year-to-date
sales growth of 9% drove core operating income growth of 18% and resulting the free cash flow
of $9.4 billion in the first nine months.
On slide 24, we have laid out the first nine months and quarter three core margin by division.
Continuing operations margin improved by 1.4% points in the quarter and 2.4% points year-to-
date. In Innovative Medicines, strong quarter three sales growth of 15%, enabled core margin
improvement with 34% of sales. Sandoz had a particularly strong quarter with 5% sales growth
and 18% core operating income growth, resulting in a core margin of almost 25%. The growth in
Sandoz was mainly driven by biopharmaceuticals growing 27%, as well as productivity from the
ongoing transformation programs falling through to the bottom-line. Additionally, quarter three at
Sandoz was hedged by first -- three first file retail launches in US and the favorable one-time
Medicaid revenue deduction adjustment in the quarter. Overall, year-to-date, you see very strong
margin expansions in both divisions, with Sandoz margin of 22% almostand Innovative Medicines
margin of 34%.
On the next slide, slide 25, just to the guidance. So in light of our very strong performance, we
are revising upwards our 2019 full year guidance once more. This is clearly driven by the very
good performance of our growth drivers and launches. In addition, we saw less generic impact on
our encore mature products than expected in quarter three, which we discussed this scenario at
the quarter two call.
So, for the new focused medicines company, net sales are revised upwards, expected to grow
high-single digits and core operating income for the company revised upwards, expected to
grow mid-to-high-teens. From a divisional perspective, we revised Innovative Medicines sales
guidance upwards to grow high-single to low double-digit, and Sandoz sales guidance is revised
upward to grow low single-digit.
On slide 26, I want to walk you through some of the dynamics for the fourth quarter versus the
nine months. Now, we are having a very strong 2019, with core operating income growth of 18%
year-to-date. As you can see, this is mainly driven by excellent sales momentum of our growth
drivers and launches, and also the productivity programs we have put in place. But we had also avery moderate generic impact on some of our older Innovative Medicines brands and upside on
valsartan from competitors' supply shortages.
So, as we move into quarter four, we continue to expect our growth drivers and launches to be
very successful. We also expect continued benefits from our ongoing productivity programs.
However, we also plan to further increase investments in launches and pre-launches such as
Beovu, Mayzent, Piqray, Xiidra and ofatumumab. As of quarter three, we do lap the valsartan
upside in the base and valsartan generics are starting to return to several markets.
In addition, we expect increased generic competition on Afinitor, Exjade/Jadenu and some
mature ophthal brands. However, as always in these cases, we do not know exactly when the
generics will enter the market. So, if generic entries would come again later or would continue to
have minimal impact on our results in quarter four, we would expect to be at the higher end of
the full year guidance. As you know, the above mentioned mature onco and mature ophthal
generic entries are a matter of time and you need to consider that also in your modeling for
2020.
On slide 27, quickly let's look at how the currencies would impact our results if mid-October rates
would prevail for quarter four and for 2020. So you see the effect of the strength -- mainly
strengthening dollar to diminish over time in quarter four already, but the full year 2019 would be
a negative 3% on sales and a negative 5% FX impact on core operating income. In 2020, the
currency impact would diminish down to a minus 1% for both sales and core operating income.
And as you know, currencies fluctuate a lot, we update this in our website every month. So you
have, hopefully, a very transparent picture on currency impacts on our results on a monthly basis.
And with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So just in summary -- just the last slide. We continue to see tremendous
momentum overall in the company. When you look at the sales and operating (Technical Difficulty)
very good about where we are, and I think, we'll look forward to taking your questions.
So, with that, I will hand it back to Samir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Operator, we'll be open for Q&A. And as we have large -- rather a lot of questions
today, can I please ask each person who is asking the questions, to limit themselves to only two
questions? Thank you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Operator, so we'll take the first question.
Operator
Of course. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operatorask your question.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So, firstly on Zolgensma, you talked through some of the
moving parts and the potential drivers into next year. But I was wondering if you could express
any level of comfort with the consensus number of $1.2 billion at the moment, which seem to
assume either very high penetration into the incident patient population or quite a lot of
prevalent patients being accessed through the course of the year. So is there enough prevalent
penetration left after your bolus to get you to that number?
And then secondly on Gilenya. It looks like you settled that with Mylan. I'm looking at the court
dockets and the stay there. Could you give us any kind of feel for what sort of timeframe that
would be coming into the market and whether you would expect to be seeking similar
settlements with the other generic filers, given the rather positive comments in the preliminary
injunction from the judge? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham. First on Zolgensma. As I explained on the dynamics, I think the key drivers here
are going to be the continued penetration in the incident population where our goal will be in the
United States to achieve very high coverage of incident patients both in newborn screening or
those identified later on after newborn screening, to continue to drive switches, and it's
important to note that while we have covered a portion of the prevalent patients today because
we haven't reached the highest levels of coverage within the incident population, there will
continue to be opportunities for switches for Zolgensma in the -- we would expect in the coming
year, and that's a second source of business.
The third will be the global launch, which we hope to achieve in -- to enable us to go into Europe
and other markets. You'll, I think likely note from the competitor sales as well, there is substantial
sales opportunities outside the United States. We continue to prepare and develop those
markets. So I think our ability to launch in Europe, the Middle East, eventually in Latin America and
Asia will provide an important opportunity for Zolgensma IV.
And then lastly, of course, once we clarify the final filing timelines, we'll provide further guidance
on the intrathecal formulation and when we would expect that launch. So overall, I think a lot of
catalysts coming for Zolgensma. A lot of positive momentum and energy around the data. A lot
of interest from the physician and patient communities around the world. So we are confident in
the -- our longer-term outlook for this medicine.
Now, with respect to Gilenya, with respect to the recent court injunction which now covers all
generic manufacturers, I think that's what you're referring to, when you look at any potential
settlements -- we're not disclosing any details. Those settlement discussions of course are
ongoing. But just to remind everyone, we would expect at some point next year a ruling from the
district court or at the start of a trial with the district court, which will be important as well as the
ruling on the appeal of the IPR ruling. I mean, those are the next milestones with respect to
Gilenya.
But we feel very confident with our position, given the language used in the initial IPR ruling, the
strength of our recent restraining order that was put in place, and so I think overall we feel good
about where we are in this process. Next question?
OperatorThank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, yes. Thanks for taking my questions. And firstly, just regards to Zolgensma, I guess following
up in terms of the commentary, the 4Q would be broadly in line. I guess, given that you've seen a
roughly similar split of incident versus prevalent patients if I understand right in the third quarter.
And presumably there's still quite a large prevalent population of less than two years old left to
be treated in the US. So I guess I'm just curious what is it at the moment just the main factor to
getting those patients on drug given the broad access that you seem to have secured. And
maybe you could help us think about perhaps how we should think about that access improving
during the course of 2020.
And then just moving on to Piqray. Obviously, a pretty impressive second quarter sales number
there. I wonder if you can just talk about the testing rates that you're seeing at the moment and
give us some sort of idea in terms of I guess the coverage and the types of patients you're
getting on Piqray at the moment, whether those patients are the last line or whether you are
seeing earlier use driven by positive companion diagnostic test? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for the questions, Peter. So on Zolgensma, in terms of the -- you're correct that we
continue to have a prevalent population available to us, and because again, we are still claiming in
our coverage of the incident population, every time we don't capture an incident patient they
become part of a prevalent pool that remains available to us for a period of time. So that
dynamic we think will continue for some period, and so we achieve our goals of having very high
coverage of the incident population.
Now in terms of the dynamics on the prevalent population and switches, there is a combination of
factors. I think one is just continuing to work on the access environment, particularly in Medicaid.
We're at 30%. Our goal is to increase that now over the course of next year, and that should
enable us hopefully to be even more successful in the prevalent population.
Second is to continue the journey on patient and physician education, particularly around our long-
term data. I think the only reasons we hear any reluctance to make the switch is because typically
-- right now insurers are not covering both medicines. So if you make the switch you are making
the switch onto the gene therapy. And so, continuing to educate physicians and patients on that.
But we're seeing I think a very strong uptake with respect to that as well. I think those are the two
key dynamics, access and the continued patient advocacy and education.
And now in terms of the access dynamics, as I think I've already described, we have very good
coverage in the private. Public should climb. And our focus right now is to continue to push the
uptake of newborn screening. Piqray, I'll hand it over to Susanna.
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President - Novartis Oncology `
Thank you. Thank you, Peter, for the questions. Actually, we are very excited about our launch in
Piqray. As you know, these patients that have a PIK3CA mutation usually have a very poor
prognosis. So we see very high interest, very positive feedbacks from physicians. We have
reached 49 million year-to-date and have more than 1,000 patients that receive Piqray now.In terms of coverage, we see very broad coverage for the treatment, but also for the testing. As
you know, Piqray as treatment but also PIK3CA testing is covered in the NCNN guidelines and we
are very pleased also with the uptake of the testing rates. Specific to your question, what patients
are currently treated on Piqray, well there might be a few patients that are in later lines, but as
you know, this is metastatic breast cancer patients with poor prognosis. So we expect that the
majority of patients come really from second-line treatment, and we expect continued demand
and are very pleased with the performance so far.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susanna. And we're excited about taking Piqray into additional indications over time as
well. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good afternoon. And two questions, please. One, Vas, as you talk about the momentum for
the business into the nine months of this year, can you help us think about how do you see that
momentum developing into 2020, what might be things that can accelerate versus what might
be things that might pull you back into next year? That's question number one.
And then question number two. Coming back to Zolgensma, can you give us a sense for how
much of that $160 million was from US versus ex-US and how should we think about the
reimbursement speed in the ex-US markets for next year? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Keyur. So on 2019 versus 2020 dynamics, as Harry described some of the dynamics
for Q4, I think you will have a similar set of factors that will impact us in 2020. On the one hand,
you're going to see our launches will continue to drive with a great energy and as well as our
growth drivers. We'll continue the strong productivity programs where our goal has been to
deliver $2 billion in absolute savings across NCO, our manufacturing as well as procurement as
well as business services. But at the same time, we have in oncology a set of potential generics
or generics that have already of course launched, primarily Afinitor, Exjade/Jadenu I think are the
ones highest on our mind. So I think we'll just have to see how those dynamics play out, but we
think we'll set up well for a strong 2020 as well, and we look forward to providing full year
guidance in January.
Now, with respect to Zolgensma, what I can say -- I think I would -- probably the accurate thing to
say, the vast majority of sales come from the US. We have had eight patients from select
European countries that have had put already in place programs. Of course, the French ATU is
one such program. But there are other countries that have already reimbursed the patients,
including Portugal and Germany, amongst others. There is broad reimbursement right now for
nusinersen in Europe. So we are of course endeavoring to have rapid -- as rapid as possible
reimbursement uptake as we can. We think there'll be strong advocacy for the use of Zolgensma,
and we think we can make very compelling cost effectiveness arguments for payers in Europe
and other parts of the world with the medicine that hopefully will enable rapid access and rapid
reimbursement. Thank you for the question. Next question, operator?Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citigroup from Citigroup. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thank you. A couple of questions, please. I'm not sure if `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development is on the line, but I would be
curious to hear his view, both yourselves with Entresto and Biogen with aducanumab are filing
data on subgroups from two trials, which failed to hit their primary endpoints. In the context of
some recent comments from Bob Temple, should we be thinking of this as the beginning of a
new paradigm and willingness of the FDA to go further with subgroup analysis that they may have
done previously in terms of trials which failed to meet?
And then second on Cosentyx, looking at the IQVIA data, the drug seems to have stalled in terms
of both NRx and TRx approximately since the launch of Skyrizi. Is there some issue with sampling
here? Or is there something else going on to explain the paradoxical outlook? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew. So on Entresto, John?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Thanks for the question, Andrew. I think it's very insightful how you picked up some of the
deliberations from Bob Temple. I think, one, when we look at Entresto and the results, obviously
we talked about heart failure with preserved ejection fraction population that currently has no
treatment. So given that's the underlying basis, we are having discussions with the agency, and
they have expressed interest in seeing the results. So we'll have continued dialog with them in
terms of the best way to move forward, and we'll submit those before the end of the year. That's
the approach we'll take for Entresto.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And if I could just add, I think one important element. I can't comment on the other filing you
mentioned. But I think on Entresto, one important element. This is an approved medicine in
reduced ejection fraction heart failure, with a sizable safety database and a patient population
that we study that's adjacent to the original patient population, and I would say also with unclear
boundaries -- The 40% ejection fraction versus 60% ejection fraction -- where do we cross the
line from reduced ejection fraction to preserved ejection fraction. It's notable, 35% used to be
the cutoff and we have moved it to 40% for reduced ejection fraction.
So we're in a gray zone here, and I think that's part of the reason we believe the regulators
encouraged us to file the data and then take the next steps because there may be ways to look
at that to enable patients to benefit, particularly building off an approved medicine with a long
track record. Now, with respect to Cosentyx NRx, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President - Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So actually we're delighted with our performance with Cosentyx. It's growing strongly, actually
faster than the market in dermatology and rheumatology. It's normal for us to see some of these
fluctuations in NBRx. But if we look across the year, the NBRx is very solid. In the US, we're actually
growing twice the market in both derm and rheum.Skyrizi is expanding the market as other launches have done, but it's taking share from older
agents, namely the anti-TNF. Cosentyx is actually more than just a great dermatology drug. It's a
complete treatment. Two-thirds of the patients have additional manifestations beyond skin, and
given the complete treatment and our strong first-line access, we're confident in the potential of
this product going forward.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. If I could just highlight again. I mean, we've looked at I think -- tried to look at carefully as we
can about the dynamics. And when we look at the NBRx data and the TRx data across in
dermatology, we feel very good about the trends that we're seeing, and we'll look forward to
continuing to demonstrate that in quarter four and then into 2020. Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Bryan Garnier from Bryan Garnier. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Bryan Garnier `
Yes. Good afternoon. First question is about amortizations of intangible and some other
significant swings here in the third quarter. It was significantly up. Going forward what should we
expect? Is it the first sign of excess of a full quarter being fully amortized and so should we
expect $700 million to $750 million per quarter to persist over the coming quarters?
And the second question is about Entresto. My understanding is that in the US you suffered from
some negative inventory movements. Could you quantify that for the second quarter and maybe
give some explanation whether it corresponds to any price increase or so some rebate discounts
in anticipation for that -- or these kind of things? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Eric. So on amortization of intangibles, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Eric. So amortization of intangibles, of course what you see is -- the acquired medicines, so
to say, to increase the amortization piece according to the expected patent life that we assume
and the accounting according to IFRS. So we have AVXS and we have Xiidra coming in which
added of course then to the amortization. So that's the level of amortization I would expect going
forward. Of course, all those pending potential M&A actions which then would add to it. And of
course, over time, some of the older assets would come off. But that's right now roughly the level
that we see also going forward.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And then on Entresto dynamics, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President - Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So we have seen some seasonal effect in Q3, but this is completely in line with previous years.
We'll always see some stock and trade fluctuations and we have seen some revenue reduction
true-ups in Q3. However, if we look at demand, it's really strong. Our TRxs are up 50% year-over-
year. We are expecting a really strong Q4 and we're comfortable with our full year consensus.Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Bryan Garnier `
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe, Harry, you just want to mention the last -- just a kind of the [ph] question on the
inventory versus revenue deduction?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. It's roughly half-half. And also on the inventory, I just want to reassure you -- this is
sometimes one or two days of inventory we talk here. Overall, there is hardly any fluctuation on
the company or the key brands that would be any cause of concern. It's one of our key control, as
you know, each quarter, each month, to ensure that we see overall sales in line with demand. So
when a couple of effects come together like a bit of a revenue deduction and maybe one or two
days' less stock on trade, at that moment, you have a bit of an effect, especially as we also have
in quarter three we always a bit lower new scripts on Entresto. So nothing to concern -- be
concerned about. Very strong underlying demand.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. from Credit Suisse. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you very much. Two questions, if I can. The first is on Zolgensma and the strong data. Vas, I
think you said that after we'd seen the second dose you would discuss with FDA whether that
was sufficient for filing or whether or not we have to wait for the highest dose data. I wonder
whether those conversations have now been had post World Muscle and what the decision was
between waiting for that third dose.
And then secondly a question around share buybacks. Clearly, the cash flow remains
extraordinarily strong with the very strong earnings growth at the business. Obviously, the Alcon
or the program associated with limiting the dilution of Alcon is now complete. But I wondered
philosophically how you felt about further additional share buybacks.
And if I can cheat a quick third one, Harry, a feature of Q2 was writing back prelaunch inventory
and it had a very meaningful impact on margins. I wondered if we were going to see something
similar with Beovu in 4Q.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew. So, first on Zolgensma. We've submitted the data to FDA with respect to
the first two doses that we presented at WMS, and we still have not had the conversation with
FDA. As soon as we have that conversation and can clarify the filing approach, we'll provide that.
And I would say as well -- we are making progress as well on the high dose, if it is in fact needed,
but our position is that we have the data needed and we'll have -- hopefully have that
conversation with FDA in a positive way. With respect to share buybacks, Harry?A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Matthew. And also for noting the strong free cash flow we have which is always of
course key focus area for us. And we are doing quite well. Always improvement areas of course
but wonderful $9.4 billion in the first nine months. So going well there. And although our share
buybacks -- I continue -- we continue to see share buybacks as part of our capital allocation
priorities but also number four.
So after we have completed this one, the $5 billion that we announced last year in June, we
completed in the quarter three, we of course continue to look at our capital overall. And just to
remind everybody on the phone, after the first priority being organic investment, the second
being strong and growing dividend and third being bolt on up to basically 5% of our market cap,
the fourth is share buybacks.
And so we will continue to evaluate this as we go forward. In case we would have a specific share
buyback program to lower the ongoing share count, we would make an announcement publicly.
We have ongoing commitment to mitigate any diluting effect from our employee participation
programs so that -- so you will see ongoing some share buybacks as we buy back and release
shares. So let's see. It will continue to be part of the future capital allocation priorities, but it's
number four, and we would always announce when we do a specific one.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then, Harry, on inventory movements on Beovu.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So there is the launch provision. As we -- prior to approve the write-off any launch inventory,
according to prudent IFRS accounting rules, there will be some, but I don't see this -- that this
would impact, as you have seen before. So usually our prelaunch inventory -- the cost of goods
are quite low, and therefore you don't see these effects and they level out over years.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe I'll take the opportunity. Marie-France, you want to provide some color of the conversation
you had on Beovu at AAO and some of the excitement that you saw on the product?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President - Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yes. So we're very thrilled about the feedback that we got at AAO. We spent some time there
and obviously met with some of the top retina specialists in the US. I mean, what we're hearing
from physicians is they really make their decisions on the ability of a medicine to try better on the
dosing interval, on the safety and on the cost. And what we know with Beovu is that we really
believe we've got a product that can deliver on these four dimensions, providing greater fluid
resolution, longer intervals for patients, uncompromised safety, and definitely what we've heard
from AAO is that physicians were very impressed and how we price the product. We really got
great feedback. They are excited to use Beovu and want to treat patients quickly. A lot of them
described Beovu -- and I'll just use a quote, as a generational leap. So we're very excited. We
believe Beovu will be a major player in the wet AMD space and beyond.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Marie-France. So we'll keep working to demonstrate that in the comingOperator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. Two questions. First on Zolgensma. It was launched with a pay-for-performance
program. What portion of dosed patients have fully achieved the necessary milestones required
by the pay-for-performance program. So any clawback is now not possible? So that's the first
question.
The second question is on fevipiprant. What can you say about the performance on FEV1? Was it
just inconsistent or was it a complete miss? It would seem less likely that a drug that fails on FEV1
hits on exacerbations. Nucala did just that, but its FEV1 data was inconsistent and not a complete
miss. So, thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. On Zolgensma pay-for-performance, what we -- what I can say is we have that
feature in many, if not all of our contracts with private insurers. I think very few if any have yet met
the milestones associated with those contracts. I would say as well though that we've now
presented data with patients out beyond five years maintaining all motor milestones. The
average patient out now from the START study is beyond four years of age, and we continue not
to see deterioration in the motor milestones gained in those patients treated with Zolgensma.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Vas, if I just add.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Steve, on the revenue recognition principles, of course, on the very small portion of patients that
would be under pay for performance, we ensure that we have appropriate revenue deductions
from the statistical models of the day, which initially we have from the clinical trials and which we
would update every quarter according to real world, which we expect to be close (Technical
Difficulty) So revenue deductions are already taking this into account and now very prudently
managed.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
John, on the fevipiprant deal?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Thanks for the question, Steve. I'm not going to get into the details of the fevipiprant study
results. What I will say is that we're currently in the process of really analyzing the results, and one
bit of color on this, we're not surprised by the results that we received in the ZEAL 1 and 2
studies.As you know, these studies were conducted in the moderate asthma patient population, and that
was across a broad unselected population and it was not stratified by eosinophil count. So that
was the basis. Our original intent in terms of filing was always looking at the severe population
and especially looking at the elevated eosinophil count. So given that that's our focus, we'll look
forward to sharing the results in the first quarter as well as sharing the results of LUSTER 1 and 2
which will form the basis of our filing in the first quarter of next year.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you so much for taking my questions. Two quick ones. First on
respiratory. Could we have your view on the respiratory franchise strategy going forward, given
the fevipiprant results and the products approvals expected next year and if you can explain the
situation in Europe versus the situation and your strategy in the US?
Second question for Harry on the Sandoz margin. How sustainable is the Sandoz operating profit
margin improvement? How should we extrapolate the Q3 performance? Or in other words, what
is the underlying growth or operating profit in improvement for Sandoz this quarter? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Florent. And I just want to say it's, ladies and gentlemen now, at least for Novartis. So
we have almost 50-50 representation in the room. So, on the respiratory franchise, I think when
you look at it, we have positive results now for QVM, the triple in asthma as well as QMF which
would be LABA+ICS in asthma that will be built on top of Ultibro which is our a LABA-LAMA in
COPD. So we have a broad portfolio of inhaled medicines, and we're now looking at the optimal
way to launch that entire respiratory portfolio. Clearly, the final results from fevipiprant will shape
a lot of our thinking.
Our overall strategy in respiratory was to move towards more specialty respiratory and severe
respiratory, building on our strength from Xolair. So our ideal positioning would be to have Xolair,
fevipiprant, then having QVM as an option for patients before they move on to the more
advanced therapy. So we'll see how that evolves. We continue to have a research program
looking at diseases like IPS, sarcoidosis, pulmonary arterial hypertension as well. So I think we'll
have a better view on our longer-term outlook in the respiratory franchise in 2020. Now, with
respect to Sandoz and margins, Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `Thank you, Florent. The core offing -- clearly an exceptionally strong result for the quarter,
reflecting good underlying performance, but also notable impact of US one-time is particularly
the Medicaid gross to net adjustment. The core gross margin really driven by favorable product
mix, strong underlying growth from the biologics business growing at 27% and the geographic
mix, plus the ongoing transformation of productivity improvements as well as the positive impact
of the Medicaid gross to net, partly offset clearly by the continued price erosion, particularly we're
seeing in the US. Our goal is to continue to drive margin improvements as we drive the
operational focus, but clearly we don't make specific forecasts, and in 2020 we'll give you
guidance for going forward.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Richard. And Richard, any early perspectives on Sandoz and how you see things
progressing?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
No. I mean, clearly, we are on track with the Sandoz transformation. We've seen a very engaged
organization that's very growth-orientated with a lot of work going on in terms of our supply
chain, our alignment and we're noting that the transformation is really much on track. But this is a
multiyear journey in terms of building a generic focused business which I look forward to talking to
you about later.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator?
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. Just going back to fevipiprant. Would you -- I guess you still sound quite bullish on the
program. You did hit FEV1 in your Phase II trial. My question to you is, are you saying that the
probability of success in hitting results in LUSTER are just as high now as they would have been
before you knew the results of ZEAL. It seems to me that not showing an FEV1 benefit has to be a
negative harbinger of sorts on what to expect from the next round of trials. And then just a quick
question on Zolgensma, just the number of patients treated. Do we just simply take sales in the
quarter divided by $2 million? Or can you actually give us the actual number of patients?
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Just on fevipiprant, just to, I guess, clarify. When you go back to the Phase II studies, the
DP2 class has been I think well studied, also in our hands. When we studied mild to moderate
patients in various contexts, we didn't see -- we did see some FEV1 benefit, we didn't see a
significant benefit. It was only when we studied patients in a publication we published at ERS a
few years ago and they looked at high eosinophilic patients that we saw the benefit. And so I
think it's important context.
ZEAL 1 and 2, LUSTER 1 and 2 are very separate efforts. So ZEAL 1 and 2 is looking at this mild
population -- moderate population, I should say, not stratifying for eosinophils. LUSTER is looking
at the severe population and looking at the high -- primarily hopefully looking at with a positiveresult in the high eosinophil population, as you've seen with the various biologics. The ZEAL result
was largely in line with what we saw in Phase II. It was requested of us, as it's been requested of
others, to look at the less severe population. I don't think there is a read through. I can say we're
more or less bullish about LUSTER 1 and 2. LUSTER 1 and 2 is just a different patient population.
With respect to Zolgensma, you have to divide the total sales by the net pricing that we've
achieved and also look at our US-EU mix. But you can think about it -- we are in the range of 100
patients treated that currently under the paid program. We also, of course, have many patients
that were previously treated in the managed access program and as well as the ongoing clinical
trials. But I think roughly 100 patients treated to-date around the world is a reasonable number,
give or take. Next question, operator?
Operator
And our next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi. Thank you very much for taking my questions. Firstly, I'm just trying to understand a little bit
that is the Mayzent onboarding issue. I'm just trying to understand why Mayzent would be any
different from any other MS therapy. It sounds like reimbursement access isn't the issue here. So
could you just confirm sort of the specifics then -- whether it is a logistical issue rather than
reimbursement access? So that's the first question.
And then the second question just on Cosentyx in non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis.
Obviously, penetration rates are partly low due to the lack of approved therapies in that setting.
But I think biologic drugs have been available for a little bit longer in Europe. So can you discuss
what experience in Europe tells us about the likely barriers to uptake in that setting and what you
might have to do to go about improving on those levels of penetration? Thanks very much.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. On Mayzent uptake, Marie-France?
A - Marie-France `
Yes. So the NBRx that we see show that physicians see the value in this product. We do see a 90-
day lag between START forms and paid scripts and this is due to baseline testing and free drug.
However, now that we've been in the market for a couple of months, we do see opportunities to
accelerate this. I think if I go back to what I said in Q2, we've always said that the first 12 months
with Mayzent would be about education. Physicians recognize that these patients are
progressing. The challenge is that they're not diagnosing SPMS, and that is because there have
been no effective therapy until now.
So this means we need to change habits, and that takes time. We're very committed to Mayzent
because patients need it. It's really the only DMT with proven efficacy in this population. So we
just need to work -- continue to work on education and continue to work to accelerate the pull-
through.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think one element that's specific to Mayzent is the need for certain genetic testing, which we're
now working to accelerate as well. That's just one component. But I think -- we really view this as alogistical operational challenge. We are seeing strong interest and strong demand from the
patient-physician community.
Now, on your question on non-radiographic axial SpA, you are correct. There are TNFs that have
been approved in the past in this indication in Europe. Yes, I think the key things for us are going
to be making a strong access argument around the world in the US and in Europe and then
improving diagnosis rates. When you look at the diagnostic inclusion criteria, it does involve an
MRI. And so I think one of the key things for us is going to be to work through patients --
physicians understanding how to identify patients that might be what is really an early, early stage
of ankylosing spondylitis, take the appropriate measures to evaluate the patients and then
hopefully get them on the medicine. Thank you, Richard. Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan from JPMorgan. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. So two, please. First, just going back to Sandoz. I wondered if
you could give us the contribution from the oral solids business at the nine months, both on the
sales and operating profit and also give us the idea of the contribution from the lack of
depreciation to the margins from that business for the nine months. Secondly, on -- linked to that
is just, when do we think the disposal to Aurobindo will happen now? Is that going to be by the
end of the year? Or should we continue to think that it's contributing to numbers in 2020?
And then second question just on Sandostatin LAR. I noticed that you're not commenting about
that in terms of an impact on generics. Just maybe you could give us some flavor of the impact
that you're seeing in Europe, the proportion of the rest of world sales that are from Europe and
what's happening ex Europe, what sort of growth are you seeing ex Europe that may be
balancing any impact from the generics in Europe. Thanks very much.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So, Richard, on the Sandoz mix from oral solids versus biosimilars and other businesses.
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
So, thank you. It's -- clearly, the biologics business accounts for roughly I guess about 20% of the
total business within Sandoz, give or take. And clearly, the biologics underlying growth was about
27%, so is accelerating quickly versus I guess the still growing but flattish oral solids business. On
your second part to that question around Aurobindo, clearly we're working closely with the
authorities and with Aurobindo to close, and hopefully we will get that approved by the
authorities within the next month or so.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Harry, I think, Richard, also had a question on lack of depreciation (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. That's a relatively small amount. We'll get back to you on that one. We've mentioned it
before, but it's not very significant.A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then on Sandostatin LAR, Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President - Novartis Oncology `
So, Sandostatin sales were broadly in line with last year. And when you put the different markets,
there is still growth in the US. So the product is holding very well, while in Europe we see some
first erosion from generics. And to give a little bit more color, so we know there is one generic
company having marketing authorization for Europe and they are now working through the local
or national ratifications. We know that UK, Spain, France, Switzerland and Germany have
approvals, and we see first commercial activities in Germany where we see first erosion of our
product.
So going forward, you have to expect very focused erosion in some markets. That's what we
expect. For the US, we have no news at this point. We continue to monitor the situation closely.
But when you ask for how you would model that, we would expect there is only very limited
generic entry, probably one company only, so we would see a more gradual erosion if a generic
enters.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susanne. And I would just want to highlight. So this is a very complex manufacturing
process. As far as we know, only one potential generic entrant, depending on the market in
Europe and the US, and not a product that's easy to supply in large volumes as well. So these are
all important factors to consider when you think about Sandostatin LAR and the formulation.
Thank you, Richard. And next question?
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays.
Please ask your question.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays `
Thanks for taking the question. Maybe if I take on Aimovig, it seems to have had a somewhat
slower start in Europe, and it seems to be perhaps slowing somewhat in the US. So just your
perspectives on market trajectory of development from here. And if you're able to give us any
updates on the litigation, that would also be helpful. And the second should be a relatively quick
one. If you can give us any update on the status your pegfilgrastim biosimilar filing in the US, that
would also be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. So on Aimovig, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President - Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So, to answer your question on Europe, I mean, where we've seen reimbursement. We've seen
very strong uptake. If I take Germany as an example, we're doing extremely well in that market.
Getting reimbursement in Europe has been difficult as we anticipated, given also the comparator
to the product.In the US, actually our performance is very good. We remain well differentiated. We've got four
and a half year data that confirm efficacy and the safety. We've got good access, and since we
were first to market, it is a product that is familiar to physicians. We do expect Aimovig's
performance to continue, and we will continue to pursue reimbursement outside of the US.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And on litigation, we have no material updates on the litigation. We'll of course keep everyone up
to date. On pegfilgrastim, Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
Thank you, Emmanuel. Clearly, we remain very confident in the quality of the dossier, and we
expect that the FDA should complete its review very soon.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you. Next question, operator?
Operator
Next question is coming from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS `
Hello. Thanks for taking my questions. Firstly one on Zolgensma, please. You said that that two-
thirds of patients on Zolgensma -- incident patients on Zolgensma were given Zolgensma when
newborn screening is being implemented. Do you have any sense of why it's at that level? Is that
just a reflection of current Medicaid access? Or is there anything else that play there?
And then secondly, could you just remind us of your current situation with respect to a biosimilar,
etanercept, at Sandoz, and any thoughts you have on a potential launch down the line there?
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Laura. So on Zolgensma, I think when there is newborn screening in place we see,
one, a high awareness of the potential of gene therapy to lead to a definitive -- hopefully
definitive treatment for these patients. And so I think with gene therapy -- sorry, with newborn
screening, there tends to be a high correlation with high degrees of awareness.
When patients are identified later on, they tend not to be at specialized centers or we have to
then work a little bit harder to get the switches to happen. So I think that's probably why we see
that effect. Our aspiration is, regardless of whether newborn screening or identified otherwise,
we believe Zolgensma should be the first choice for all of those patients, and our aspiration is to
be above 90% coverage of all of those early incident patients in SMA. With respect to
etanercept, Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
Again, thank you. So, it was negative. So, clearly Erelzi was approved by the FDA in 2016, but not
launched due to the pending patent litigation with Amgen. The US District Court of New Jersey
ruled against us in the patent litigation of August 9. Now, we respectfully disagree with the ruling
and while intellectual property should clearly be respected, we believe patient -- patents in thisagreed to an expedited appeal, and we look forward to bring Erelzi to US patients as soon as
possible. And clearly, we'll update you of any progress.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And as soon as we have more color on when a potential decision might happen, we'll of course
update all of you. Thank you, Laura, for your questions. The next question, operator?
Operator
Next question is coming from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim for Guggenheim. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Thanks for the questions. So just a couple here. On fevipiprant, I guess I don't want to over-read
into the fevipiprant situation. But as I look at your slide deck, you specifically comment on a
planned filing in 2020 and then in your appendix it says that the LUSTER 2 trial is complete. Just a
question here. Do you have any data in hand from the LUSTER trials on exacerbations? Or is that
review to be completed? It just seems like that there is an implication that in the eosinophil high
patient population maybe there is an effect, but you're waiting for LUSTER 1.
And then the second question really is to kind of focus in on the way that you see Beovu ramping.
Maybe you can just help us understand the launch trajectory for Beovu and how we're going to
see revenue kind of grow coming into -- into the model and maybe you can just metric that for us
versus the kind of launch that we saw with Eylea. Thanks so much.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. On fevipiprant, first, it's important to note that in order to file in the severe population we
need both studies, the LUSTER 1 and the LUSTER 2 study. So in order for us to make a
determination, we also need to also see the pooled analysis across the two programs. We have
locked -- as you rightly point out, we have locked the LUSTER 2 database. And so we do have the
initial readout from that study, but we're awaiting now the LUSTER 1 readout to understand where
the overall program and the pooled analysis, as well, sits, all of the elements that would be
required for a regulatory filing.
We also have an additional study called the SPIRIT study which is required from a safety
standpoint as well. So once we have a clear perspective on all of these studies, we'll be able to
provide an update in Q1 on. On Beovu, Marie-France?
A - Marie-France `
Yes. So on Beovu, I would just really reiterate what we're hearing from the marketplace, which is
that physicians are very excited to use the product. We know from clinical practice that fluid is a
number one factor for treatment and for switching decisions. We believe that Beovu will convince
given the HAWK and HARRIER data, and no doubt it will convince even more in clinical practice.
We've seen a lot of positive feedback from AAO. I think what I would say is, Beovu needs --
physician needs for greater fluid resolution and these patient needs for greater (Technical
Difficulty) that I believe we've got a world-class team in place in the US and that will see a really
strong launch with Beovu.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `All right. Thank you, Seamus. Next questioner, operator?
Operator
Next question is coming from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thank you for taking my questions. Two, please. Firstly on Zolgensma. I wonder if you could give
us a little bit more color on the phrase even distribution of patients by type and age. I'm
assuming it's not dead 50-50. So any more color on that would be useful. And then sticking with
fevipiprant, I wonder if you could give us any thoughts on any potential mechanistic reason behind
the ZEAL result. Is this due to different implication of Th2 cells in moderate and severe asthma?
There have been a few papers suggesting that maybe there could be some possible explanation
there. So your thoughts on that would be much appreciated. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Simon. For Zolgensma, we were obviously not providing that granularity of detail. But
what I can say is we've seen solid uptake in both patients between the ages of one and two and
patients -- between the ages of six months and one year and patients below six months. So
we've seen I think a relatively even distribution across these different age groups, and we've
seen an even distribution as well between Type 1, Type 2 and Type 3 patients. So those are the
numbers we're -- those are the groups we're talking about when we say an even distribution.
So I would say, in large part what we're trying to indicate is we are seeing approvals for the use of
the medicine when prescribed, when on label, and after taking the appropriate steps with
insurers. Now with respect to the ZEAL results and the mechanism, John?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Sure. Thanks for the question. And I think you guys all know that fevipiprant is a selective DP2
agent, and in that case, it's not a classic bronchodilator. And what we know is that DP2 activation
increases with disease. So in fact, as you have more disease, you actually would likely get more
response from DP2s. Now, just one correlation that you probably know in terms of the biologics
or IL-5s, in the moderate population, there was not significant improvement in FEV1. So I think in
this respect, we obviously want to see the results of LUSTER 1 and 2 and expect to see better
results in the DP2 antagonist for patients with -- severe population, especially with high
eosinophils.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, John. Next question, operator? No, actually, Harry, you had one --
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Just for Richard -- `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan, you asked about the divested Sandoz US business related
stopped depreciation. It is a small number, it's about $10 million per quarter, so $30 million year-
to-date, $10 million per quarter is the stopped depreciation.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. Next question, operator?Operator
The next question is coming from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thank you very much for taking my questions. Firstly on China. Could you please help us
understand the outlook for your business in China framing the opportunities as well as the threat.
So clearly a very strong growth in more key growth drivers that you highlighted and launches to
come in terms of Entresto in heart failure and Cosentyx, et cetera, but from the threat
perspective obviously a number of LOEs I presume are coming up potentially including products
such as Galvus. So if you could help us understand the key approval decisions and you're out
decisions and LOE timings, that would be fantastic. There isn't lot on LOE timings outside the US,
Europe and Japan in your annual report.
And then secondly on canakinumab, I guess, this is a bit of a wild card in your pipeline. Could you
comment on the -- any interim analysis planned ahead of the primary completion of CANOPY-1
and 2 in the first half of 2021? And then just more broadly in terms of your ambitions on IL-1 beta
as a mechanism following the acquisition of the Xiidra [ph] products. Thanks very much.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mark. On China, broadly, we see it as -- as a very important opportunity for the
company. We publicly stated we have overall business in IM [ph] that's over $2 billion. Our goal is
to at least double that business over the five year term. That's primarily -- it's driven entirely by
new launches, our ability to launch new medicines. And I'll have John comment a bit more on the
number of -- number of approvals and NDAs we expect, and then maybe Marie-France can give
more color on how we're doing on some of the launches. John?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. Thanks, Vas. As you know, we put a significant effort into China. Already in the last two years
we've had 24 NDAs approved. That's across nine NMEs, new molecular entities. And moving
forward, over the next -- between now and 2023, we expect to have 50 NDA submissions. So in
total, with that combination, so over 70 NDAs. So a significant effort that we're putting in behind
China over the last two years and over the next couple of years.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And that fits with our overall belief that with the 7+4 initiative to take spend out of older
medicines and free up resources to launch new medicines. We want to be well-positioned with all
our portfolio available in China and ready to launch.
Marie-France, you want to give some more color on how we're doing on some of those
products?
A - Marie-France `
Yes. So first of all, I'll just comment and say that our China business is growing really well. Our
growth rates are in high 20s. The innovative portfolio is really what's driving the launch. So if we
look at Entresto, Lucentis, Cosentyx, they're among the five growth drivers for China. Entresto is
actually the best primary launch ever, and we do expect to see NRDL listing in Q4. So that should
be a big opportunity for China. Cosentyx is -- also off to a great start, but obviously maintainingin 2020. We also expect on NRDL listing for Lucentis in DME and RVO this year. So all-in-all, again,
it's the innovative portfolio that's driving the growth.
We currently have no products on the 4+7 list although that may change. And again, what we're
going to focus on is really innovative portfolio and expect to continue the strong growth.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, both. On canakinumab, John, any interim expectations?
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. So specifically, obviously, we have the PARAGON results' readout. One of the areas that
we're looking into is the post-acute MI patient --
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
No, no. I'm sorry, not Entresto, canakinumab for the non-small cell lung cancer --
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Oh! Yes.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
For the first-line, second-line.
A - `John Tsai, Global Head of Drug Development `
Yes. What we can say about canakinumab -- sorry about the confusion there. For CANOPY trials,
CANOPY-1 and 2, those are moving forward and recruiting well. We continue to see good results
in terms of recruitment. Now, what we do see in the adjuvant population -- it's a little bit slower
population in terms of recruitment in that study, but I think balanced -- what you're seeing in the
marketplace, there's just less patients that are actually moving forward in the adjuvant population.
So for CANOPY 1 and 2, those are moving forward very well in terms of recruitment in CANOPY A
in the adjuvant population is a little bit slower than we expected.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So we do expect CANOPY 2 potentially CANOPY 1 to read out in 2021. I'd say more broadly, our
efforts in IL-1 beta in the inflammasome are -- we're quite bullish on it. Not only did we have the
canakinumab program. Its' not only do we bring in a second agent for an anti IL-1 beta antibody.
But we've also acquired a company called IFM Tre which has oral inflammasome inhibitors, and
we are now -- that molecule as well as the internal program we're taking across a range of
autoimmune indications, oncology indications, neurological indications. So we would like to really
own the inflammasome space for the long term, and that's what we're working towards. So,
thank you, Mark for your questions. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `Hi, there. Thanks for taking my questions. Firstly on Tasigna, which seems to return to growth at
least in the US. Is it fair to assume that the impact from the TFR data is now played out, and we
should see sustained growth in the US and similarly so in Europe in the coming quarters?
And then secondly, the gross margin of pharma was impacted by the cell and gene therapy
investments. Should we expect that to continue well into 2020? Or is this a short-term impact,
given the Zolgensma uptake? Thanks.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So I think both questions for Susanne, first on Tasigna, Susanne?
A - Susanne `
Yes. So on Tasigna we saw indeed very strong growth of 11% in the quarter. So what we can say in
the US as you know, since a value focusing our messages around efficacy and around targeting
new and switch patients. So we believe this strategy is paying off, and we see the situation
stabilize and expect modest growth going forward. The Q3 effect is an unusual one because --
and is artificially high because of inventory phasing versus Q3 in the US. So that I would not expect
to go forward like that. But overall we are pleased that Tasigna seems to be stabilized and we'll
expect modest growth going forward.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then cell and gene manufacturing investments?
A - Susanne `
Yes. So I say we have a lot of focus on improving on our manufacturing process, and we are quite
pleased that capacity has been gone up by 60% between Q1 and Q3, so making good progress
there. We have started to shift out of (inaudible) for cure side and signs for clinical supply and
overall making good progress on that.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So, I think, Naresh, our goal is to work back up. I think you're correct, we have with the cell and
gene technologies had to take some hit on our gross margins, particularly in oncology with
therapy but our aspiration is to now start to improve that and get that back up now in the coming
year. Last question, I think, operator?
Operator
That's right. Our last question comes from `Mani Foroohar, Analyst, SVB Leerink from SVB Leerink. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Mani Foroohar, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I've got a quick first one on Zolgensma. Obviously, the
expanded access and compassionate care dynamics in the US are very different than other
markets. When you think about the bolus phenomenon we're seeing in the US, could that
phenomenon actually be more pronounced in some other markets as you roll out in Japan,
Europe, et cetera?
And regarding sickle cell, for SEG101, it's a little different administration profile andimpressive clinical data. How do you think about investments in infrastructure and operational
expertise that you can bring to bear to commercialize SEG101 across the market that has
historically been pretty difficult to penetrate?
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for the questions, Mani. On Zolgensma ex US, what we have seen is in certain markets,
there is a high degree of interest. They've already put in access programs in place to enable use
of the medicines in multiple patients. So I think in some countries in Europe as well as in the
Middle East, there could be very strong demand coming very quickly after approval. Difficult to
dimensionalize precisely, given the obviously the rarity of the disease. But we do expect there to
be similar, let's call it pent-up demand effects in overseas markets. Now on SEG101, Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President - Novartis Oncology `
Yes. We are quite diligently preparing for the launch of SEG101, looking forward to getting
approval Q1 of next year. And when you ask about our commercial model, there is obviously a big
focus on access to get access approval very quickly. I am very confident about the product
because it has an impressive impact on patients. As you know, SEG101 is targeting VOCs, which is
the hallmark of the disease. And when you talk to patients how devastating pain crisis is and
seeing that SEG101 could half episodes of VOCs, I think that's impressive. That's also the
feedback we get from physicians. So focus is to work on access, but we are very confident and
looking forward to be ready for launch.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susanne. So thank you, all, for joining today's call. We look forward to seeing you at
our R&D Day in early December. For those of you who can make it, we'll be focusing on profiling
our next wave of innovation coming out of our early Phase III and late Phase II programs, so you
get a sense of the next wave of important medicines we'll be bringing forward as a company, as
well as providing more detail on the depth of the programs we have on many of our products,
including Cosentyx, Piqray and others that we've profiled over the course of today's call.
Thank you for your interest in Novartis, and we'll look forward to speaking with you soon. Thank
you.
Operator
Thank you. That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all
disconnect.