S1 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon, Europe, and good morning to the U.S. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to
AstraZeneca's First Half 2019 Results. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe
Harbor statement. The company intends to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the United States
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking
statements with respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although
we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-
looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and may be influenced by factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements.
Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the
slide deck that accompanies this presentation and webcast.
I will now hand you over to AstraZeneca's Chief Executive Officer, `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, everyone, it's `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer. Welcome to the first half 2019 conference call and our webcast
for investors and analysts. The presentation is available on astrazeneca.com, as always, and
we've also sent it to those on our distribution list. Please turn to Slide two. This is our usual safe
harbor statement. We'll be making comments on our financial performance using core reported
numbers and at constant exchange rates, or CER, which are both non-GAAP measures. We'll also
discuss other non-GAAP measures deemed helpful for investors and analysts. All numbers werefer to million U.S. dollars and growth rates will be at CER and for the first half year of 2019,
unless we state otherwise.
Please turn to Slide three. We actually plan to spend a good half an hour on the presentation and
then do a Q&A. (Operator Instructions) Thanks in advance for that. Today, I'm joined by Dave
Fredrickson, who is our Executive Vice President of the Oncology business unit; `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business, the
EVP for BioPharmaceuticals business unit; `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO; `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D, who is our EVP
of Oncology R&D; Mene Pangalos, who's our EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D. And for the
questions later, we have -- also with us, we have `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International, our EVP in charge of China and the
Emerging Markets. So if you turn to Slide four. This is the agenda. We plan to cover all key aspects
of our results today.
Turning to Slide five. So we had a good start of 2019 and we've continued on a very high note in
the second quarter. Sales were up 19% in the quarter, 17% year-to-date. We saw very strong
performance across our company. New medicines grew by 77% and added $2 billion in
incremental sales in the half. This strong performance was driven by Oncology with an increase of
58%, $4 billion of sales in the first half delivered by the oncology franchise. And also the Emerging
Markets grew by 24%. Our Japanese company advanced by 31%.
These numbers highlight the geographical diversity of our global business. Our total revenue
increased by 14%, driven by smaller contribution from collaboration revenue. On the cost side.
Core operating costs increased by 5% as we continued to invest in sustainable growth but also
focused on our cost management. As a result, we continue to deliver operating leverage with our
core operating profit up by 44%. Core EPS was $1.62, including a 21% tax rate. We increased the
guidance for sales today from high single-digit growth to low double-digit growth. As we focus on
return to sustainable business growth, we now anticipate a lower total of collaboration revenue
and other operating income. As a result, core EPS guidance will remain the same. Our pipelines,
importantly, continued to deliver in the second quarter and we are really looking forward to a very
busy second half of the year.
Turning to Slide six. When we look at the pipeline progress in the second quarter, we -- certainly, I
have -- rarely seen such a long list of positive achievements and only one small disappointment,
the complete response letter for Farxiga in type 1 diabetes. There were a number of highlights in
oncology, including a positive Phase III result for Imfinzi in small cell lung cancer. Lynparza was
approved in first line ovarian cancer in the EU and in Japan, and we started with the regulatory
submissions in pancreatic cancer first in the EU. Trastuzumab deruxtecan met the primary
endpoint in its first pivotal trial for the upcoming regulatory submission.
Finally, Calquence met primary endpoints in 2 Phase III plans in relapsed/refractory and in front-
line chronic lymphocyte leukemia. In Biopharmaceuticals, we saw progress for Farxiga and the
important CV outcomes data in type 2 diabetes, with a positive EU opinion and a regulatory
submission in China. Lokelma, which is now launched in the U.S., we started promoting in June,
saw regulatory submission in Japan and in China and a Priority Review in China, highlighting the
unmet medical need in the country. Staying in the field of kidney disease, roxadustat confirmed its
cardiovascular safety.
On the Respiratory side, Japan led the way with approval for Bevespi and Breztri, the first global
approval for our new closed triple inhaled medicine for the treatment of COPD. And last but not
least, Fasenra also moved towards approval for its new autoinjector pen device with a positive
opinion in the EU. As always, Jose and Mene will cover more R&D details later on. So please turn
to Slide seven. We have delivered on our promises to return to growth and we remain very
excited with the trajectory. We now have 4 consecutive quarters of very strong sales growth.After our first great quarter, the second quarter continued strongly with 19% sales growth. It takes
the year-to-date achievement to 17% growth.
While comparisons are getting tougher in the second half, as you can see here, we today
increased our full year guidance for sales growth for the whole year. Our new medicines
continued to make a significant contribution to growth, this time increasing by 77%. The biggest
contributor remained Tagrisso, which is already our largest selling medicine. Imfinzi and Lynparza
also did well and they added significant sales. And we are pleased with the underlying
geographical expansion beyond the U.S. market. Fasenra, Brilinta and Farxiga drove strong
double-digit sales growth in BioPharmaceuticals.
Together, the new medicines added more than $2 billion of incremental sales in the first half of
2019. So please turn to Slide eight. So if we look at the main therapy areas in the Emerging
Markets, what comes across here is the well-diversified business of our company becoming more
visible. We have -- we're now more diversified than in the past and we're becoming more
diversified than other peers, both from a geography but also from a portfolio viewpoint.
As a result, this will create a more sustainable performance in the future compared to what we've
experienced in the past. Oncology remains above $2 billion per quarter and it grew by 58% in the
first half of 2019. It's now approaching 40% of our total sales. New CVRM with Diabetes and
Brilinta grew by 16% to more than $2 billion, and it includes about 1/5 of our total sales. It
represents 1/5 of our total sales. Respiratory increased by 10% and also represents about 1/5 of
our total sales. And finally, other medicines declined by 14% and then all represent less than 1/4 of
sales.
The geographical diversification is important for the future of our industry and certainly for our
company. So our growth in the Emerging Markets is important. It continued strongly with an
increase of 24%, with China growing above recent trends. We continue to emphasize growth in
those Emerging Markets and we want to bring all our medicines to patients in need. In general,
we would like to remind our investors that such growth does fluctuate more in the Emerging
Markets of course, but our broad presence really helps us manage these ups and downs.
Please turn to Slide nine. I wanted to say a few words about sustainability because we often talk
about sustainable sales growth, but sustainability for us is a broader commitment and a
commitment that goes beyond sales and beyond our top line. As you can see from our results
announcement, we've embedded sustainability in our company as well as in our quarterly
reporting to investor and analyst. This past quarter, we made some important progress like
expanding our Healthy Heart Africa program to patients in Ghana.
Members of the senior executive team have been to Africa themselves to see the program in
action, and I can tell you, we all each time come back very energized by the impact we are having
on patients in Africa. You cannot open a newspaper without reading about climate change and
the impact our modern lifestyle has on the environment. During the quarter, AstraZeneca joined
the EV100 program, where we will shift company cars to electrical cars. We have 16,000 vehicles
on a global basis, those will be shifted to electrical cars and will save a very large amount of CO2
emissions over the next few years. In the quarter, we also received an update on colleague
engagement for our periodic peer surveys. We're pleased to see that the majority of our
employees and our colleagues around the world show very high engagement scores that remain
ahead of our peer companies in the pharma sector.
With this important summary, I will hand over to Dave to cover our Oncology business. Please turn
to Slide 10.`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Business `
Thank you, Pascal. So now I will update on the performance of our oncology portfolio before, as
usual, handing over to Ruud, who will update on CVRM, Respiratory and the Emerging Markets. If
you could turn to the next page. The first half of 2019 has started off well for Oncology with sales
of $4 billion and continued strong growth at 58%, with our 4 new medicines now contributing $1.5
billion of incremental sales. In the lung franchise, the Tagrisso and Imfinzi roll-outs and the new
indications of first-line EGFR mutated non-small cell lung cancer and resectable Stage III non-small
cell lung cancer are truly well underway. Lynparza continues to cement itself as the leading PARP
inhibitor further enforced with the first-line ovarian cancer setting launch.
We see continued encouraging uptake of Calquence in the smaller mantle cell lymphoma
indication, with sales now of $64 million in the half year. The majority of sales came from the
approved indication in the U.S. and we estimate now that as many as 45% of the patients in the
approved indication are now treated with Calquence. This launch has allowed us to build the
infrastructure needed within the hematology space as we prepare for the larger chronic
lymphocytic leukemia indication following the 2 positive pivotal Phase III readouts earlier in the
year. I do also want to comment on Faslodex, which for the first half was holding ground quite
nicely with sales of $521 million and growth of 8%.
We do though note that in the second quarter, the U.S. started to decline due to the entry of
generics and I want to highlight that we do expect some headwind as we head into the second
half of the year in our mature portfolio, with U.S. generic fulvestrant or Faslodex entrance and
further IRESSA declines as we focus our efforts on Tagrisso.
Please turn to Slide 12. Staying on Tagrisso, which is the company's #1 selling medicine, Tagrisso
demonstrated continued growth of 92% in the year with $1.4 billion in sales as the global first-line
label launches continue to take effect. I'm very pleased to note that the current quarterly run rate
is annualizing at over $3 billion. The U.S. continues to exhibit strong growth with sales of $559
million and with the return to quarterly sequential sales growth following growth in underlying
demand as we reach a high level of penetration in the first-line setting in the EGFR mutated
space. Europe reported $212 million with a growth of 64% as first line launches take effect
following reimbursement decisions. Japan had very strong sales of $291 million, up by 151% as
levels of penetration in the first-line setting are actually getting well over 66%.
And Emerging Markets saw $329 million in sales, with China contributing more than half as the
NRDL listing starts to take effect and we continue to provide access to more and more patients
across Emerging Markets, in China, specifically. We do look forward to China's first-line regulatory
decision now in the second half of the year. Please turn to Slide 13. Staying in lung cancer, Imfinzi
continues quarterly growth as the global approvals for the PACIFIC indication of unresectable
Stage III non-small cell lung cancer start to take effect. Imfinzi reported sales of $633 million, with
the vast majority coming from the U.S. and the lung indication.
In the U.S. where we have 75% of total Imfinzi sales, we saw strong sales of $473 million and
we're very encouraged to see that the number of patients now getting chemoradiation in the
setting is increasing as is the number of patients getting Imfinzi post-chemoradiation. We now
see that most of the immediately available patients are benefiting from Imfinzi, as evidenced by
the increasing patient infusions illustrated on the right-hand chart on the slide. Our focus now is
shifting to providing the benefit to patients ex U.S., and we are now approved in 49 countries.
Sales outside of the United States are beginning to ramp up as we look to launch and gain
reimbursement in many, many important countries across the globe. In Japan, where we do haveapproval and reimbursement, we delivered $86 million. And in Europe, $60 million of sales in the
half. In Japan, we've seen the number of patients getting systemic therapy post-chemoradiation
increase as a result of our commercial efforts and now over half the patients are getting therapy
in this setting. We will continue to roll out in further countries in order to allow for more patients to
get access across the globe to Imfinzi in this area of high unmet need through 2019. We're also
kicking off a number of trials in the early settings in lung and beyond building on the foundations
by PACIFIC.
Please turn to Slide 14. Finally, I want to talk about Lynparza and note that it demonstrated
continued progress with sales of $520 million in the year and it's now on track for blockbuster
status with annualized run rate of more than $1 billion. We've seen growth across all regions as we
continue to roll out the broader second-line maintenance label in ovarian cancer and in breast
cancer and of course the first-line ovarian cancer indications which now are in the major markets
of the U.S., EU and Japan. U.S. sales were $262 million, where Lynparza continues to be the
leading medicine in the PARP inhibitor class at nearly 60% share as measured by total prescription
volumes in this competitive market. Increase in demand came from the all-comers second-line
ovarian cancer and the subsequent first-line label and also some from the emerging breast
cancer indication.
As you would expect, we continue to see the majority of use in ovarian with emerging use within
breast cancer. In Europe, sales were $131 million, up 61% versus prior year, reflecting the increased
bracket testing rates as we roll out additional launches and secure reimbursement across several
markets with the inclusion of the broader EU ovarian tablet label. Japan is launching quite nicely,
delivering $58 million following the launches in ovarian and breast cancer. And Lynparza was the
first PARP inhibitor launched in China which contributed to the $59 million in Emerging Markets in
the half year. The ongoing collaboration with our partner Merck progresses in the field and
beyond and we continue to look forward to an exciting next period of delivery of what we believe
will continue to be the leading PARP inhibitor.
I now hand over to Ruud to cover CVRM and Emerging Markets in more detail along with
Respiratory.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business `
Thank you so much, Dave. For the BioPharmaceuticals business, total sales of new CVRM and
Respiratory were $4.6 billion in the half. This represents 42% of our company's sales and growing
at 13%. We are very pleased with the continued growth of Farxiga and Brilinta and the ongoing
successful launch of Fasenra. Although Symbicort faced some headwind, Pulmicort continued to
provide robust sales delivery. We look to build on this growth, including through further launches
of Lokelma in the coming months.
Please turn to Slide 16. For new CVRM, sales were up by 16% despite intense competition in
Diabetes with total sales at $2 billion. Growth for both Farxiga and Brilinta remained strong with
double-digit increases globally. Farxiga delivered sales of $726 million, with 90% growth,
maintaining volume market share leadership globally. Farxiga saw U.S. growth of 2% versus the
first half of 2018 with growth slowing due to increased in-class competition. We look forward to
the potential DECLARE label update in the United States in order to accelerate market growth in
our share in the SGLT2 class.
Outside the U.S., where we have 63% of sales, we have seen encouraging performances with
volume growth increasing. Europe saw sales up 26% and Emerging Markets sales were up by
45%. Brilinta delivered sales of $737 million, with 26% growth, driven by strong performance in theup by 24% and 7%, respectively. We continue to be very pleased with the performance of Brilinta,
which is still outgrowing the markets in all regions. Bydureon, including the autoinjector Bydureon
BCise, were impacted by the supply constraints for the new BCise device, with sales down 3% in
the first half. This has been resolved and we'll go back to normal supply in the second half of the
year.
Please turn to Slide 17. Turning to Respiratory, where we now have $2.5 billion in sales, we saw
10% growth in the year-to-date, mainly driven by Fasenra and Pulmicort. Symbicort was down by
6% to $1.2 billion, with the growth in Emerging Markets not fully offsetting the impact of market
access in the United States and pricing pressures in the U.S. and Europe. Volume growth
continues and we remain the global volume market share leader. U.S. Symbicort sales were down
by 13% and Europe was down by 7%.
However, in the Emerging Markets, Symbicort was up by 18%. In Japan, we saw the effect of
destocking due to the transition from the promotion agreement with Astellas. Pulmicort was up
by 19% with sales of $716 million. Emerging Markets was the driver of this growth, up 27%. Growth
of Fasenra continues, now launched in 47 countries with $296 million of sales in the year-to-date,
with the bulk of the sales coming from the United States, Germany and Japan. In the U.S., Fasenra
is performing against new competitors with $208 million in sales. Europe and Japan continued to
deliver with $45 million and $30 million in sales, respectively. We are looking forward to offering
Fasenra as a self-administrated medicine with the autoinjector device in the second half of this
year.
We are also excited to launch Breztri Aerosphere for COPD in Japan during the second half of
this year. We have also Priority Review in China for Breztri. Now I will move to Emerging Markets,
please turn to Slide 18. Emerging Markets continued to track ahead of our long-term performance
ambition, which is to grow sales on average by mid- to high-single-digit percentage with 24%
sales growth overall in the year-to-date. Outside China, overall sales were up by 10%.
China continued to deliver a very strong performance with 35% growth, with the new launches
taking effect. Finally, the strong performance was spread across our main therapy areas, with 1/4
of oncology sales coming from the Emerging Markets, with Tagrisso as the main contributor. New
CVRM was up by 44%, driven by Brilinta and Farxiga and Respiratory sales were up by 30% with
Pulmicort as the key driver.
With this, I will hand over to Marc. Please turn to Slide 19.
`Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Ruud, and hello, everyone. I want to take you through our financial performance in the
first half and the second quarter as well as our financial priorities and our updated guidance.
Please turn to Slide 20. As usual, I will begin with the reported P&L before reviewing our core
performance. As Pascal mentioned earlier, product sales grew by 17% in the first half, where there
was minimal collaboration revenue.
Other operating income of around $700 million mostly came in the first quarter as part of the
divestment of the rights to Synagis in the United States. Please turn to Slide 21. Moving to the
core P&L. Our gross margin ratio improved by 1 percentage point in the half to 81%, reflecting an
improving mix of sales as well as manufacturing efficiencies. Operating cost increased by 5% in
the half and represented 61% of total revenue, a 6% -- percentage point reduction in year to year.
With product sales continuing to grow ahead of operating cost, we are making a good start in
improving our operating leverage and this was illustrated by a 5 percentage point improvementin our core operating profit margin in the half to 27%. The core tax rate was 21%, impacted by the
geographic mix of profit and the impact of collaboration and divestment activity. In the second
quarter, the tax rate was reduced to 18%. Even with a higher-than-average core tax rate and
reduced transaction income in the half, our core earnings per share increased by 40%.
Please turn to Slide 22. Turning to net debt and cash generation. Our net debt was broadly stable
in the half. The share issuance of $3.5 billion was offset by a number of elements, including a
higher-than-average level of purchase of intangible assets, highlighted by the first upfront
payment in respect to trastuzumab deruxtecan to Daiichi Sankyo as well as the final true-up net
payment of around $400 million to Merck. We also paid the second interim dividend in the first
half of the year. We made encouraging progress in the half when looking at net cash from
operations. We delivered an inflow of around $500 million in the half versus an outflow of $75
million last year.
As we have mentioned earlier, our improvement in sales and core operating profits as compared
to previous year was supported by movement in working capital and short-term provisions. The
reduction centered on favorable trend in both receivables and payables. This was offset by one-
off legal receipt in 2018 and higher tax paid in 2019. Below cash from operations, higher cash
inflow from disposable of intangible asset was more than offset by higher cash outflow from the
purchase of intangible assets I mentioned a moment ago. I expect the majority of the value of
payments relating to prior business development to have been settled in the first half.
We are making good progress -- please turn to Slide 23. We are making good progress
delivering strong and sustainable sales growth and we are fully committed to working on our
operating leverage and profitability. These improvements are intended to generate more cash,
which over time will be directed towards deleveraging our balance sheet while increasing
dividend at the earliest appropriate opportunity. Looking at this year. Our cash from operation
plus divestment income will be broadly in line with 2018. The majority of this year's outflow from
legacy business development transaction took place in the first half. Even so, we made good
progress in the first half with a net cash flow from operating activities of $491 million versus an
outflow of $75 million in the first half of 2018.
Looking ahead, our ambition is to fully cover the dividend with cash flows before financing
activities in 2021. Please turn to Slide 24. Finally, I will turn to guidance, which is on product sales
and core EPS at constant exchange rates. Partly reflecting the performance in the first half, I now
expect product sales to grow by a low double-digit percentage this year, even accounting for
tough comparison in the second half. My previous expectation was for high single-digit
percentage increase.
I expect a significant reduction in the sum of collaboration revenue and other operating income
this year. Comparing our operating leverage with core operating profit anticipated to increase by
mid-teen percentage, my expectation for the core tax remain in the range of 18% to 22% in 2019.
I continue, therefore, to anticipate growth in core EPS to $3.50 to $3.70 at constant exchange
rates. Lastly, capital expenditure is still expected to be broadly stable this year and we continue to
target reduction in restructuring charges.
With that, I will now hand over to Jose.
`Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Marc. Let's move to Slide 25. Thank you. So thank you, Marc, and hello, everyone. My
name is `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D, I am happy to provide an update of the progress made in our Oncologydiscuss our BioPharmaceuticals pipeline and upcoming news flow across the business. Mene will
also provide an update on progress we have made in our mid-stage pipeline.
Let's turn to Slide 26. Firstly, I would like to take some time to go over the exciting science we
showcased at this year's ASCO 2009 Annual Meeting. Overall, we presented 93 abstracts,
spanning multiple tumor types, including 12 oral presentations, a plenary session and 4 late-
breaking abstracts. We presented data from Lynparza's POLO trial which evaluated Lynparza use
in metastatic pancreatic cancer. Results showed a statistically significant and, more importantly, a
critically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival for Lynparza versus placebo. More
than twice as many patients showed no disease progression both at 1 year and 2 years intervals
in the Lynparza arm.
We have now received POLO regulatory submission acceptance in the EU and plan to commence
other POLO regulatory submissions in the second half of this year. Also, for Lynparza, we
reported results for the confirmatory SOLO-3 trial in third-line ovarian cancer, seeing Lynparza
become the first and only PARP inhibitor to demonstrate efficacy versus chemotherapy. The trial
also met the key secondary endpoint of improvement of progression-free survival, which is the
time a patient's lived without disease worsening.
We presented 3-year overall survival data for our immunotherapy medicine Imfinzi from the
PACIFIC trial showing durable and sustained overall survival benefit in patients with unresectable
Stage III non-small cell lung cancer who had not progressed following concurrent chemoradiation
therapy, a previous standard of care treatment. And I am happy to report that now we have
PACIFIC overall survival data included in the U.S. label. In addition, we also presented at ASCO the
results of the randomized Phase II study for capivasertib, which when added to Faslodex led to
more than a doubling of the progression-free survival compared with Faslodex alone in patients
with endocrine-resistant estrogen receptor-positive advanced breast cancer.
Capivasertib has recently entered Phase III study -- Phase III trials in breast cancer. Let's move to
Slide 27, please. Now for an update on the progress of our pipeline. In terms of regulatory
milestones, during the period, we saw positive results from the Phase III CASPIAN trial which
looked at Imfinzi use for the treatment of small cell lung cancer, an area of unmet medical need.
The CASPIAN trial has a number of differentiating elements. First, it allows for flexibility in the type
of backbone therapy administered, either carboplatin or cisplatin, which can differ by geographic
region in practice.
The trial is also the first to compare the role of immunotherapy with real-world clinical practice,
demonstrated by the allowance of 6 cycles of chemotherapy and prophylactic cranial irradiation
into control arm as well as a variety of chemotherapy regimens. We recently received Orphan
Drug Designation status in the U.S. following the CASPIAN results. Full results from this trial will be
presented soon at a coming medical meeting in the second half of this year. Lynparza received
EU and Japanese regulatory approval for first-line BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer. Our potential
new medicine in HER2 therapy, trastuzumab deruxtecan, demonstrated efficacy in HER2+ line
breast cancer by meeting the primary endpoint in the Phase II trial DESTINY-Breast01. Regulatory
submission is anticipated in this half of the year.
And as a reminder, we have already received Breakthrough Therapy designation from the U.S.
FDA. Calquence met Phase III primary endpoints in both the ASCEND and the ELEVATE-TN trials,
and the former was presented at the European Hematology Association earlier this year. I will talk
about this more in a few seconds. The second half of the year for Oncology will continue to be a
very busy one. We are expecting final overall survival data for Tagrisso. And for Imfinzi, we have
first-line non-small cell lung cancer from the POSEIDON and NEPTUNE trials as well as first-linehead and neck data from KESTREL and bladder data from DANUBE. Lynparza will be seeing first-
line ovarian cancer data in BRCA1-type patients with the PAOLA-1 trial.
And second-line metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in the PROfound trial. Let us
move now to Slide 28. Finally, before I hand over to Mene, I would like to focus a bit on our
emerging hematology franchise. Hematology is an area of strategic focus for AstraZeneca and
we were strongly encouraged by the results from 2 chronic lymphocytic leukemia trials for
Calquence, both of which were stopped early at interim analysis due to overwhelming efficacy.
Firstly, ASCEND showed a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in
progression-free survival with Calquence monotherapy compared to a combination regimen of
rituximab plus physician's choice of either idelalisib or bendamustine for relapsed/refractory CLL
patients. This data was presented at this year's European Hematology Association Congress in
Amsterdam. And in the ELEVATE-TN study, Calquence combined with obinutuzumab
demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free
survival when compared with the chemotherapy-based combination of chlorambucil and
obinutuzumab.
The trial also met a key secondary endpoint, a statistically significant and clinically meaningful
improvement in progression-free survival was seen with Calquence monotherapy compared to
the chemotherapy and obinutuzumab regimen. We aim to complete regulatory submissions for
both trials in the second half of this year. Finally, I would like to introduce some earlier-stage
hematology medicines we have. Firstly, we have AZD5991, an MCL1 specific inhibitor currently in
Phase I for relapsed/refractory malignancies. We also have AZD4573, a cycle-independent kinase
inhibitor which also targets MCL1. And lastly, AZD2811, an Aurora B kinase target which we are
evaluating in myelodysplastic syndrome and leukemia. And we have also seen activity with this
agent in small cell lung cancer.
I will now hand over to Mene to talk through progress made in BioPharmaceuticals.
`Menelas (Mene) Pangalos, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Please turn to Slide 29, and thank you very much, Jose, and hello to everyone joining us on
today's call. We've also had a great first half in BioPharmaceuticals across both cardiovascular,
renal and metabolism and respiratory. And I'm excited to talk to you about where we have
progressed so far. Starting with new CVRM, and I'll start off with a reminder of our data presented
for Farxiga's cardiovascular outcomes trial, DECLARE, at this year's American Diabetes
Association medical meeting. Farxiga showed a 47% reduction in the composite of kidney
function decline end-stage renal disease or renal death compared to placebo in a prespecified
analysis.
As a reminder, the Phase III DAPA-CKD trial is due to read out just beyond 2020. The DECLARE
trial also received positive opinion from the CHMP this month and has been submitted for a label
update in China. Now looking at our renal franchise, starting with Lokelma. We made regulatory
submissions in both Japan and China, with the latter granting Lokelma Priority Review status,
highlighting the great unmet need there for patients with hyperkalemia. At ERA-EDTA this year,
we presented data for the DIALIZE Phase III trial which evaluates the efficacy and safety of
Lokelma for the treatment of hyperkalemia in patients with end-stage renal disease who are on
hemodialysis. In the trial, 41.2% of Lokelma patients maintained normal potassium levels
predialysis compared to only 1% receiving placebo.
Last, in the period, we confirmed the cardiovascular safety profile of roxadustat by the pooledfor the U.S. regulatory submission in the second half of the year. Please turn to Slide 30. Now on
to Respiratory, where we continue to build momentum in our inhaled portfolio with Japanese
approvals for 2 medicines on our Aerosphere delivery technology platform, Bevespi and Breztri,
the new name for our inhaled triple combination medicine. Both are indicated for the treatment
of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, COPD.
Our biologic medicine, Fasenra, indicated for severe asthma received positive opinion in the EU
for self-administration and the new autoinjector presentation. We're investing in these life-cycle
management activities to complement the benefits of Fasenra, such as fast onset, its unique
mode of action, strong efficacy and convenient dosing regimen. These benefits have been
increasingly experienced by patients worldwide, which is illustrated in the feedback we're
highlighting with a quote from the patient on this slide.
Please turn to Slide 31. Now I'd like to summarize some of the key news flow items still to come
across the company pipeline. The second half of the year is one of the busiest I've seen in my
time here at AstraZeneca and I think it's a testament to our ongoing growth trajectory. For
Oncology, we have major readouts upcoming, as previously mentioned by Jose, such as Imfinzi's
POSEIDON, KESTREL, DANUBE and NEPTUNE trials and Lynparza's PAOLA-1 and PROfound trials.
We'll be submitting POLO data for Lynparza, DESTINY data Breast01 for trastuzumab deruxtecan
data in the U.S. And both CLL trials for Calquence before the end of the period. In CVRM,
regulatory decisions for Farxiga's declared label update in the U.S. and the EU are expected as
well as data readouts in the first of the heart failure trials for Farxiga, DAPA-HF. Also in CVRM,
THEMIS, Brilinta's cardiovascular outcomes trial in type 2 diabetics with a coronary arterial disease,
will be submitted for regulatory decision in the second half.
In Respiratory, we expect regulatory decisions in China for Bevespi for use in COPD and Fasenra
self-administration use in autoinjector device in the U.S. all in the second half of the year. We plan
to submit Symbicort mild asthma data in China and we're due to have ETHOS data readout for
Breztri in COPD by the end of the year. Please turn to Slide 32. And finally, to provide an update
on progress on some of our exciting new medicines in early development that will have an impact
on our future news flow in the next 3 to 5 years. News this quarter, as mentioned by Jose, our
AKT inhibitor, capivasertib, has started Phase III trials in breast cancer.
We also have a number of additions in this slide following internal review. In CVRM, we have
MEDI7219, our new oral GLP-1 agonist, which is currently in Phase I trials and AZD2693 entering
Phase which will be evaluated in NASH. In Respiratory disease, we have an inhaled selective
glucocorticoid receptor modulator, AZD7594, which is currently in Phase II trials. With so much
activity, I'd like to thank everyone on this call for their support and thanks to all our colleagues
here at AstraZeneca, whose expertise and dedication help bring all of these new medicines to
patients.
And with that, I will now hand back to Pascal for his closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mene. Please turn to Slide 34. So in summary, as a brisk start in 2019, we've continued
on a very high note in the second quarter. As I said earlier, sales are up 19% in the quarter, 17%
year-to-date. We've seen strong performance across all our business and our new medicines in
particular grew by 77%, adding $2 billion in additional sales in the first half. This was driven by a
number of elements. Oncology, of course, 58% up. Emerging Markets as well up 24%. Japan
grew by 31%.These numbers really highlight the geographical diversity of our company. Importantly, in our
BioPharmaceuticals business, we also saw double-digit growth right across both CVRM but also
Respiratory and very strong launch of our -- launch uptake of our new products. Core operating
costs increased as we continue to invest but at the same time manage our costs prudently. As a
result, we have delivered operating leverage with our core operating profit growing by 44%. Our
core EPS was $1.62. And the tax rate in the first half was 21%.
So we've increased our sales guidance. As you heard Marc say, we now anticipate a low double-
digit growth rate. We also anticipate a lower total of collaboration revenue and other operating
income as we transition faster than expected into our organic growth. And as a result, core EPS
guidance remains the same. Our pipeline importantly continued to delivered in the second
quarter with a very strong set of results and we are now looking forward to a very busy second
half.
So we'll now go to the Q&A. (Operator Instructions)
Questions And Answers
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So let's now take the first question from the conference call, and I'll turn the microphone to
`James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPMorgan. James, go ahead please.
Q - `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hello. Thanks for taking the question. `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Question was just about
lynparza and the upcoming PAOLA study results. So GSK's competing PRIMA study has reported
positive top line data for all-comers and HRD-positive patients. But GSK hasn't commented
whether they've shown a benefit in HRD-negative patients which, in terms of the patient
numbers, could be the biggest patient population. So can you just talk about for your study, are
you only going to test all-comers? Or will you also be testing HRD-positive and HRD-negative
sub-populations, so we will actually see how the benefits break out? And is that an indication you
pursue? And are there differences between the studies such as the fact that you've got Avastin in
that might mean you do better in the HRD-negative patients potentially?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, James, for the great question. There are 2 parts maybe in it. And if I may,
I'll ask Jose to comment from the viewpoint of the clinical trial and what we see -- what we expect
and what we see in the benefits of the combination with Avastin. And maybe Dave could give you
some more color on the more commercial aspect of the use of those agents and as we see
them in the future if, of course, PAOLA is positive. Jose, over to you.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D `
Absolutely. So thank you, Pascal. So James our study PAOLA the primary endpoint is in all-comers.
So it's the intention-to-treat population and this includes irrespective of BRCA status. Now of
course, the study is stratified by BRCA status. And we also are going to be looking at the CR-
positive patients as secondary endpoint. Maybe you want to comment, Dave, on the Avastin
part?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Business `Yes. So in terms of Avastin. We selected Avastin to be in the control arm and part of the study
because of the hypothesis that LYNPARZA alone, while remarkably beneficial for patients with the
biomarker status, and we saw this in SOLO-1, where the hazard ratio was 0.30, but that for
patients that don't have the biomarker, that combination on top of Avastin is the right comparator
because Avastin is standard of care. And I think that we can take a look and see that across the
globe, over half of women in the U.S. are treated with Avastin in combination with platinum-based
chemotherapy for induction.
Now half of those women go onto receive it in maintenance, half of them do not get it in
maintenance. So there is a certainly a drop-off as you move to maintenance. But then across the
globe, when you look at Europe, Japan, 40% to 60% of women are treated with Avastin and this
is front-line setting in induction and almost all of them continue on to receive Avastin in the
maintenance setting. So clearly, Avastin is a well-established standard of care here. And I think
that the point that Jose was getting at, we'll see the data that come out of PAOLA.
And I think that if the data that come out of PAOLA suggests that there's a benefit of adding
LYNPARZA onto an Avastin backbone in the maintenance setting that, that risk benefit is one that
we will have every opportunity to bring to physicians. And there's enough behavior and comfort
with Avastin that exist across the globe that I don't see that as a difficult barrier to adoption.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. And I think, James, what's important to remember, let me add a couple of
comments, is that ovarian cancer is a terrible disease and efficacy has to be the driving factor
here. We do believe there is a synergy combining LYNPARZA and Avastin. Of course, we are
running the experiment, the clinical experiment to demonstrate that. But if indeed our hypothesis
is correct and there is a synergy, the efficacy in the first-line all-comers will be the overwhelming
clinical factor here in term of prescribing because you really have to prioritize efficacy here. And
as Dave said, 50% of patients receive Avastin in the U.S. Up to 60% in Europe. Physicians are
quite well used to using Avastin and they will happily combine it with LYNPARZA, if indeed PAOLA
is positive.
So should we move to `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi at Citi?
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. A couple of questions. Firstly, what you see the risk to Tagrisso and LYNPARZA in
Medicare Part D revenues in light of the recent Senate Finance Bill? And do you expect support
for the bill in Washington? That's one. Second, you've been very thoughtful in how you'd think
about the take forward strategies to address Tagrisso resistance. There was some intriguing
PARP data suggesting it may overcome EGFR resistance. I was wondering whether this would
precipitate any clinical trial program. And then finally, on LYNPARZA in China, how competitive do
you think you can be with olaparib given that you've got a domestic company marketing Zejula,
will be home advantages that, that may bring in terms of access?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew. And thank you very much for remembering the one question per person. But
we'll will give you 3 questions. So I will ask, Dave, maybe Tagrisso Part D, do you want to cover
this one, Dave? And also, I think maybe LYNPARZA China. And then Leon who's there with us,
could give some additional color on LYNPARZA in China. And then Jose could cover the Tagrisso
resistance and the PARP combination question.A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Business `
Yes, absolutely. So Andrew, on -- maybe let me start with the second part of your Part D question
in terms of do we expect support in Washington? I think state of play is that this is still early days.
I'm sure that there is quite a bit of road in front of us before what is getting marked up today in
or now in one of the -- in the Senate, then it's going to have to go through the house and then
they'll have to bring those 2 things together. So there's quite a lot of state of play here for us to
be able to make a prediction on whether it will get supported or not. On your specific question,
Part D mix for both Tagrisso and LYNPARZA is 25% to 30% of our U.S. business.
So if you put that in the broader context of the whole portfolio, for Tagrisso U.S. represents 40%
of total sales. LYNPARZA represents 50% of total sales. In both of those instances, I would expect
that the U.S. percentage of total sales to, frankly, actually -- certainly with Tagrisso U.S. as a
percent will decline slowly as we have achieved, I think, a pretty high level of saturation in terms
of the front-line opportunity, but many other markets coming on-board. And I think that back to
the question that James asked, we'll sort of see how PAOLA plays out before we'll know where
the LYNPARZA trajectory goes. Staying on LYNPARZA, in terms of within China, I mean, I think that
one of the major advantages that we've got within China is that we were the first PARP into the
marketplace.
We certainly also have been working very diligently in a lot of the market-shaping activities and
building up our presence that's there. We've been leveraging the presence that we've had of
field forces that have been calling on, physicians that are treating women's cancers from a lot of
the work that we've been doing on the breast cancer space with some of our more mature
brands, and that's something that we see as a real strength that carries us to be competitive
within China. I think, Leon, with that though, I'll turn it to you if there's things that you want to add.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Leon, if want to you add that. I mean, Andrew just throw you a little bit of a challenge here to
beat the local competition. I know you like challenges, so please go ahead.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International `
Yes. I think LYNPARZA in China, we launched in a self-pay with the patients support program a
year ago. So I think achieved quite a good success together with copromotion with MSD. So I think
this is the first thing. And second is AstraZeneca and MSD are both very strong oncology
company now in China, so with very strong presence in China. And commercial ranking wise,
AstraZeneca is the #2, #3 oncology company in China. So we have a strong base. And thirdly is
the NRDL national reimbursement. I think we qualify for this round of NRDL negotiation, which is
going to happen in September, October, so with the SOLO-2 our second line indication.
So I think we will be ahead in market access, hospital listing, provincial tendering. So I think in
many aspect that which is quite important in China. And on top of all these, we have very good
coverage of breast cancer. We are only #2 to Roche in China. And prostate cancer, we have quite
leading position in China. So these future indications, AstraZeneca already have a very strong
base and other products already exist in the market, so we will be a quite formidable power in
these current and the future indications.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. And Jose?A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. Sure. Andrew to the question of how are we addressing Tagrisso resistance. We are very
familiar with the data with Tagrisso and PARP inhibitors that has been published in some high
peer, high review -- sorry, high-impact factor journals of the cell groups. So this data is quite
interesting. What I can tell you is that we have a quite comprehensive number of studies
addressing Tagrisso resistance. As you know, we have these platforms called ORCHARD and
TATTON and we are combining Tagrisso with MET inhibitors, Tagrisso with Imfinzi and many other
arms.
And these trials have the advantage that they're very dynamic, so we can add and subtract
anything that we like. So we are following this very carefully. And then also, I'd like to call your
attention. Perhaps one of the most well-identified mechanisms of resistance -- acquired
resistance to Tagrisso is MET amplification, and we have the SAVANNAH study in which we are
combining Tagrisso plus savolitinib, which is quite hopeful based on the data that you saw at the
ACR. So I do think we have a comprehensive approach to Tagrisso resistance and we are
confident that we'll make progress there.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim at Guggenheim. Seamus, go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Thanks very much for the question. Just a couple here. I did want to follow up on some of
Andrew's questions around Part D and the impacts there relative to, frankly, the overall portfolio.
Can you guys maybe just give us a general sense? It looks like there's an assumption in the
market that high cost drugs would take quite a hit. But AstraZeneca, I think, published a comment
on the ways and means website that specifically cites the decline in utilization with high co-pays.
Just hoping you guys could put that into context in terms of what happens with volume because
of that. And then separately, as we look at the Fasenra growth and the prospects for Fasenra
going forward, it looks like you guys are almost caught up to your first major competitor. But just
hoping to get a better understanding of how you feel Fasenra is positioned going forward
relative to the growth of Dupixent.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. So I think I'll just make a couple of comments and hand over to Ruud to
comment generally on Part D changes in the U.S. marketplace, but also on Fasenra because I think
he probably loves your comment about catching up to the competition. Just to remind you what
Dave said a minute ago in term of the so-called expensive -- more expensive products. I mean, in
our case, you would think Tagrisso and LYNPARZA, 25% to 30% of our sales in the U.S. are in Part
D. So that's the part of the sales we're talking about that are potentially impacted. I think, overall,
it's still too early to judge what the impact will be. Suddenly, there is a negative impact that could
come from those changes.
But on the other hand, we also help a lot of patients with free goods. And if patients are helped
by an out-of-pocket cap, that certainly will be a big relief to many of those patients who have to
cover large co-pays today for expensive medicines. So we should get some upside there in term
of the ability of patients to access and stay on their medicine, less fewer patients to help and
possibly certainly more persistence. But it's really too early because the discussions are still
ongoing as to what the final outcome of this out-of-pocket cap and also the financing will looklike. So still a little bit of discussions to happen in Washington before we can really give a clear
answer. Ruud, do you want to cover the 2 questions?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business `
Yes. So absolutely, Pascal, and I will not reiterate the words you were saying. So specifically about
Part D, it's a little bit too early to comment on that. Clearly, we have a very diversified portfolio,
both in Part D and Part B. So that's one. So we believe that we are relatively, relatively okay and
that we can mitigate against any single policy. Having said that, of course, it's concerning. Equally,
there are a couple of elements which we are supporting as a company regarding the bill or the
cap of the out-of-pocket cost. Clearly, the increased use of biosimilars, I think, is an important way
to create headroom for new innovative medicines.
And finally, we are very supportive of all policies related to more transparency to patients
regarding affordability and cost. So it's a bit of a mixed bag, but once again, I can only echo the
words of Pascal that it's a little bit too early in order to make bold statements regarding the
financial impact. Regarding Fasenra, we keep saying that we are very pleased with the
performance overall. Almost $300 million of sales in the first half year, primarily coming from 3
countries, the United States, Germany and Japan. It clearly shows that there is an enormous
potential also in the rest of the world, including, of course, the other major European markets.
I think the success of Fasenra so far is threefold. First of all, I think the product features, Mene was
alluding to that, are very strong and the product is working fast, the efficacy is very strong. And it
also clearly has a convenience advantage versus the competition whether it's Dupixent or Nucala.
On top of that, we have a very extensive life cycle management program in place, which is very,
let's say, hopeful moving forward. And we clearly believe that the products will be very soon the
standard of care, certainly in the NDL 5 class, but I think in the broader way in the total biological
space for patients with severe and controlled asthma. So, so far, very positive feedback from
physicians and patients about the use of -- and the impact of Fasenra.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. The only thing maybe I would add is that we've almost caught up, as you said
Seamus, in terms of total scripts. But we are a leader in new initiations, in new scripts in those
countries, in most of those countries where we've launched and certainly in the U.S. Those
products tend to be life-transforming for patients who have severe asthma and the compliance,
the persistence is pretty good actually. So you have a long effect of the total number of
prescriptions keeps growing over time because patients like those products and they stay on
treatment. But in term of new patient -- new prescriptions, we are now in a leadership position.
So let's move to the next question that is online from Marietta Miemietz at Primeavenue. And the
question relates to the Emerging Market growth where we said, it fluctuates. And the question is
are -- were there any positive one-offs in Q2 that you don't expect to recur in second half?
Where do we see that we normalize growth in the Emerging Markets in China? So I'll ask Leon to
cover this. I'll just say that there was -- I mean, no real -- I mean, there was no one-off in Q2. In
fact, we -- Q2 was negatively impacted by divestments outside of China. So we will have had an
even higher growth rate in Emerging Markets outside of China without those divestment that
took place of older products. But certainly, Leon, you want to talk about moving forward, what
should we expect especially in China?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International `Yes. I think just echo Pascal's comment. I think divestments outside China impact the outside
China growth. It's supposed to be even bigger, so this negative impact of divestment will
gradually disappear in quarter 3 and quarter 4. So within China, there are positive things still --
and also outside China ongoing is the expansion retail pharmacy and also the GP selling multiple
products Crestor, Brilinta and Farxiga. And also we have the new launches continued because the
ways of new launches, the new products. So we, unlike U.S. and Europe, launch new products
quite simultaneously. But in Emerging Market, we are launching countries one by one, smaller
countries lying behind.
So it's a sustained release of new product launches. And also we are facing undertreated --
underdiagnosed and also not properly compliant patients in the Emerging Markets. So these are
the positive things, I think, will continue. But within China, we do not expect it will continue to grow
like at this speed. I think it will still be double-digit growth, but there could be tendering expansion
outside of 4+7 Cities, and also patent expiry of major products like Brilinta is also coming in China.
So there could be some negative. But also, we are facing NRDL application of Farxiga and NRDL
application of roxa and the LYNPARZA. These are major inclusion which we expect around at the
end of the year. There could be some price cuts in quarter 4, which impacts quarter 4 growth a
bit. But it will definitely positively impact the 2020 business. So it's a mixture of positive and
negatives, and I think continue double-digit growth will definitely happen in Emerging Market in
China.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Leon. `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Exane at Exane. Luisa, go ahead.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Exane `
Hi. Thank you for taking my questions. Maybe to touch on the cost lines. So R&D, SG&A growing in
line with how you've guided. So in constant currency terms, R&D plus 2% in the first half, SG&A
plus 7%. So I'm not trying to prompt any particular guidance into 2020, but just if we think about
those 2 cost lines, is that trend likely to continue into 2020? Or could would see sort of switch
away from the investment in SG&A towards the R&D, like, whether that would be a 2020 time
frame or beyond? And then perhaps I could ask on Imfinzi in the U.S. You've talked about kind of
market penetration there being fairly full. So just to check in the Stage III, is that because you
literally are tapping into all patients? You're not seeing KEYTRUDA have an impact taking share
away from you? And then as CASPIAN comes online, just any more color on the timing of the
filing there and whether you might expect see some early off-label use in the U.S., please? Thank
you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Luisa. Marc, do you want to cover the cost question? And Dave, maybe you could
cover the Imfinzi U.S. question.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So first of all, Luisa, thank you for the question. The progression of operating expenses, as
you have quoted, R&D plus 2% for the first half and SG&A plus 7%. So I'm not going to provide
any guidance for 2020 today. But I want this -- to put this in perspective of what we are trying to
achieve. I mean, what we are trying to achieve is to gain margin expansion and to gain operating
leverage. So we look at the progression of expenses by comparing the sales growth that we are
achieving. So this is for us the most important part for 2019. But this same approach will continue
in 2020. We continue, obviously, across the whole company to look for productivity initiative andwe try to have the highest possible cost discipline to achieve this operating leverage over '19,
over '20 and also, 2021.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Dave?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Business `
Great. So starting first, Luisa, on your question around Imfinzi in the U.S. I think one of the things
that you certainly saw in the slides that I presented and one of the things that I wanted to point
out was that we do continue to see U.S. patient infusions increasing. So I think about that as the
same as a TRx. And so we do see growth in that. It's just that the growth sequentially that's
coming from it is slowing relative to what I would say was a fairly torrid pace that was happening
in the second half of last year and, frankly, throughout all of last year. I mean, in terms of where
we see that growth coming from, we have seen a steady increase in the United States from
about 50% at the beginning of 2018 to about 2/3 of patients now getting CRT in this Stage III
setting. So we have seen some growth in the use of CRT. I think importantly, on the second part
of your question, we've also seen that when patients get systemic therapy post-CRT, and about
half of them get that, that now nearly 100% of the patients getting systemic therapy are getting
an IO therapy.
And we now see also that really much more than the majority, we're nearing kind of 90% of those
patients are getting Imfinzi, if they're getting an IO. So on your specific question in terms of do
we see off-label use from other IO agents? We do. But I would say that it's an absolute minority.
And we've seen some strength within that number. And as I mentioned in the comments, we're
really looking forward to launching outside of the United States where we continue to see
opportunity for growth. In terms of on CASPIAN, we -- we're working as quickly as possible on
making sure that we prepare that filing and speaking with health authorities and we'll move to get
that into discussions with FDA as fast as we can. I guess, what I would comment on is that we
know that there is an incredibly high unmet need in small cell lung cancer, it's got 6% 5-year
survival rates, it's about 15% of all lung cancers that are diagnosed and usually areas of high
unmet need move with some pace, but we have to obviously have those discussions.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. The other question is from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research at Wolfe Research. Tim, do you want
to go ahead?
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A question on Tagrisso and the overall survival data that's coming. And just the
riskiness that you don't hit overall survival because there will likely be crossover. So it seems like
your risk of not hitting it is not inconsequential. And my question on that is, how are you thinking
about that? And then how does that tie into reimbursement and coverage in certain ex-U.S.
markets where often overall survival is required. So, for example, in China, to get first-line NRDL,
do you have to hit overall survival? Second question is on POSEIDON and NEPTUNE from the
news yesterday from Bristol on CheckMate 227 showing that PD-1 and the CTLA4 works in first-
line lung. This would seem to raise the odds of success for your 2 trials that report out in the back
half of this year? How do you view your 2 trials? Are they super high risks that may not lead to
much? Are you more encouraged now? I know investors generally have low expectations on
those.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tim. So the first question -- will do the following. The first question is multidimensional,
so let's focus on that one and then we'll move to the next question. So the first question on
Tagrisso. There is a clinical aspect that, Jose, you want to cover or maybe Dave? Dave, do you
want to cover that? And also then take advantage of that to cover also the reimbursement
aspect. And then we'll ask Leon to talk about the China part.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Business `
Great. So I think that the first part that I would say -- the question, how risky is not hitting overall
survival on the context of crossover? I mean, you start first with the PFS data. So I -- you certainly
know that in the front-line setting, PFS medians of 18.9 months versus 10 months suggests that
you've gotten a pretty good head start on Tagrisso. You're right, the crossover is certainly
something that could come into play. I'd also note though that the emergence of the T790M
resistance may be beneficial for some patients in terms of crossover, but not for others that are
negative. We don't really know on that. I mean, I just would also note that this is an event-driven
study, as they all are. I think the events have taken some time.
I generally see that as a positive thing for studies in terms of event rates, but we'll see when we
see the data. From a marketplace perspective, there's no question that positive overall survival
data is beneficial to us in our discussions with payers. As you have conversations in HTA markets,
as you have conversations like you alluded to with China having overall survival data is something
that we, if we're positive we'll quickly get into the hands of payers and health authorities and we
would expect that to be an important catalyst for us. And so we'd have to also accept that if we
didn't have it, that, that would be a headwind that we would have to face. So I think that it is
something that's important in the markets that we haven't yet gotten reimbursement for with
Tagrisso.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Leon, anything -- do you want to add on the China part NRDL listing?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International `
Yes. I think in China we are still waiting for the indication approval for FLAURA first-line indication,
which is expected any time in quarter 3. And we might miss this round of NRDL. And I think we are
expecting to apply for NRDL some time late next year. So a good OS data would definitely help
our reimbursement and price negotiation with the payer.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Good. And Jose, do you want to cover the IO-IO question? And if there is any more color you
want to add to the clinical aspect of the Tagrisso OS data, please do so at the same time.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, thank you very much. I think Tagrisso was well covered by Dave. On the IO-IO question, I
think the data from the CM227 study, this data is complex. And I think we need to look it in its full
detail before we can make an assessment. These -- what we are learning I think, and I think it's
fair to say, what we're learning, is that this immuno-oncology studies have a degree of
inconsistency that is part of also I do think that while -- what is being supported is hopeful for
NEPTUNE, we just need to wait. And I think that's our approach. These studies are fully enrolled,they will deliver results in the second half of this year. So we are just hopeful, but we'll need to
wait until we get the outcome.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose. I mean, as Jose said, we've seen variability from one study to another and then
sometimes the crossover plays a role. Sometimes other aspects, so it's really prudent to wait
until we see the data with all of those things.
So there is a question from `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America of Bank of America. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi. It's Sachin of Bank of America. Firstly, Pascal, some comments on why is that you're open to
deals where they can add value, if you can just clarify how you're thinking about from the size of
deal and financing perspective? Secondly, for Mene, on roxa. FibroGen had indicated they would
be meeting with the FDA in July. I wonder if that meeting is happening, whether you have any
agreement on the statistical plans going forward, particularly the confidence intervals in non-
inferiority and how to analyze dropouts in the non-dialysis? And then one for Jose, just on DS-
8201, there's been a bit of discussion about DESTINY04 in low HER2 potentially being next year.
It's not listed on your 2020 news flow. So just any update as to when you expect that data.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sachin. So yes, Mene, you're going to cover the roxa question. As far as the deals, I think
what is important to add, Sachin, is that clearly mentioned to people that our focus is on
delivering our own pipeline. You've seen the amount of work that is ongoing, the amount of news
that has been delivered in the first 6 months, the amount of news flow coming in front of us. So
our focus is delivering this pipeline, launching those products, improving our operating margin
and improving our cash flow.
So that's number one focus. But the other thing I said is sort of stating the obvious, which is we,
of course, would consider, any addition to -- any asset that could be strategically sound for us to
acquire at the right price and if we cannot value -- just like we've done with the Daiichi Sankyo
partnership, we felt we could add value, we partnered well with Daiichi Sankyo. We have a global
presence and we think we can add value to this asset working collaboratively with them. But
clearly, our priority remains our own pipeline and improving our operating margin, our cash flow
over the next period of time. That's really the top priority. Mene, do you want to cover the roxa
question?
A - `Menelas (Mene) Pangalos, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Yes, very brief. Again, just for context, as you know, FibroGen made an announcement on one of
their IR calls about having a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA at the end of July. As you know, we
actually don't normally comment on meetings such as that. I think what it highlight is that we're
very much on track for filing in the second half of the year. In terms of the specifics of how we
handle, for example, dropouts relative to placebo in the non-dialysis obviously, we have a plan
which we're confident about. We'll be talking about that with the regulators, but we're not going
to go into details about that until we've had those conversations.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mene. The one thing I should have added, by the way, to the previous question is that it'smay say so. And then the Daiichi Sankyo, as we've told you before, was a unique opportunity, a
unique asset and it's sort of a good bridge to your last question. Jose, can tell you -- tell us a little
bit more about DS and the program.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. Thank you very much. So the program is going well and in particular to your question about
the low HER2 expressing breast cancer study, the DESTINY04, the study is enrolling. This is an
event-driven study, so we cannot comment on when precisely this study will roll out. It's going to
be at some point in 2020 plus. But I think that we just need to wait for the events to occur. So I
don't think we can be precise on when this data will come out.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose. So there's a question coming from `Matt Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse at Credit Suisse. Matt, over to you.
Q - `Matt Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Two questions if I can, please. The first a follow-on to Tim's on POSEIDON.
One thing that we've seen from CheckMate 227 is quite significant differences in the squamous
and non-squamous elements of that trial. KEYTRUDA separated those into 2 studies. But
POSEIDON, I think, is like 227 and has the mix. What I wanted to ask is, what flexibility you have
ahead of trial readouts around the endpoints, and whether there's anything that you can do to
focus primary endpoints solely on one element of the data, or whether or not it will always be an
all-comers non-small cell lung cancer study? And then secondly, just coming back to the
commentary around raised revenue guidance and not raising core EPS guidance. I fully
understand less externalization in other operating income coming in 2019. I guess the question is
that, is that a formal deemphasizing of externalization as a strategic goal as you move to a more
normalized P&L? Or is it just timing issues that mean that in 2019, you feel there are not assets
ready for disposal or partnering?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Matt. So maybe, Jose, you could call the first question. And the second I'll -- so if you
want, then Marc you could so help me there. Jose, do you want to cover the POSEIDON
question?
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President and President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, absolutely. So again, I think that you need to just look at one data set, so just the one from
the BMS study in the overall context. So that study, again, we need to take a look at the data in
careful detail. There are many details that are unknown. As Pascal mentioned just a few minutes
ago, in that study, for example, if you look at the control arm, the control arm performs differently
than in the prior studies. It has an overall survival that is close to 16 months. This is a marked
difference, for example, to the pembro studies that had overall survival in -- of 11 months. And
then also, again, although this study shows a difference in the squamous population, I could also
put forward to you that the sample size is quite small and this is inconsistent in some degree with
the pembro data in which the benefit was in both. So the study will read out and we'll find out.
Our study is in all-comers and we are planning to keep it. We are not planning to change at thisA - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose. So the second, Matt, as from a strategy perspective, nothing has changed. We will
continue to do 2 things. One, is partner assets that come out of R&D, but we're not the best
company to commercialize them, and we will partner those. And the second is to continue
focusing our portfolio and divesting products that don't fit. But of course, as we always said,
there's less of those. We always said there will be a barrage and over time, the amount of
upfront milestones will decline and then will be replaced by a certain amount of recurring revenue
and profit, and we could never say how much because it depends on how well those new --
those products do with our partners. Marc, anything you want to add?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
No, I think we have for quite some time distinguished in our P&L the collaboration revenues used
to be known as the external revenues, which are the most sustainable part. So this will continue in
the future also. On the other income there, we always say that every quarter is different and then
this is a variable part. Is it normalizing? For sure, as Pascal says, we have indicated to a constant
trend of reduction in '19 versus '18, '18 versus '17, so this trend is likely to continue -- this trend of
reduction is likely to continue in 2020 for the -- for the disposal of the other income. However, the
callable revenue should, obviously, follow the progression of the alliances that we have already
signed.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marc. For those who are a little bit worried about our underlying or organic growth, if you
want to call it this way, this result should be reassuring. I mean we are able to transition suddenly
faster than many would have thought to an organic growth and really driven by top line sales of
new products in particular but also Emerging Markets. So I think a really good demonstration that
our strategy is working, and we are delivering what we said we would do and we're transitioning
to organic growth now.
So we'll take maybe the last question from `Thibault Boutherin, Analyst, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Thibault, go
ahead.
Q - `Thibault Boutherin, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you for taking my questions. So it's on the 4+7 pilot tender scheme in China. Just
wondering if you could help us to understand the impact we should anticipate as it spreads
nationally on context of drugs like Crestor. And also in potential future targets such as Faslodex
potentially Toprol XL and Nexium. Should we have assumed that a product like Pulmicort will
remain protected? And just a follow-up on this. If we look at the split of current China business
between kind of legacy-exposed product versus new product, it seems to us that the ratio is
maybe 40:60 in 2018. And how should we expect this split to be in 2 or 3 years' time?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Thibault. So a number of questions for you, Leon. So maybe the first one is 4+7 and
whether it will spread nationally. And also, potential impact on other products like Toprol and
Faslodex is sort of one question. I think the other question was new versus older and at what
speed do we expect that the shift to new products to happen in China?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International `Yes, I think 4+7 tender is something we are closely watching. I think first, 4+7 there are 11 cities. So
geographically, the first round of 4+7, we have 2 products, IRESSA we won the tender. And
Crestor, we lose the tender. Both get a price cut. And this price cut already reflected in the first
half, especially second quarter business. But it's only in 4+7, 11 city and it will blow out across the
China. But how far it can reach, we don't know yet of the expansion. And the second round of this
tender will happen next year. So, so far, we're expecting the solid -- a solid tablet form of the
drug will be highly likelihood to be included into the next round of 4+7. But injectable and the
nebulized and inhalation product that will be less likely among the legacy product.
At the same time, we have newly included reimbursement product like Tagrisso and we're
applying for LYNPARZA, Farxiga and Brilinta was included last year. So we are still continue
growing these newly reimbursable products to access more patients. So like I said, nebulized
products and also inhalation products, Pulmicort, Symbicort and we are also -- will be newly
launched a triple combo and also Bevespi dual combo. So I think we will be able to grow these
products relatively faster because we have strength in respiratory in China and also we have
strength in the oncology in China. So Zoladex and Faslodex injectable, and quite difficult to copy.
So we foresee these 2 injectable oncology products will still play a very, very important role and
will continue to grow. So as I said in the other question, I think China is seriously underdiagnosed,
undertreated and also not compliantly follow-up. So I think we have a huge room to -- in
geographic expansion to continue. So I expect new product will, of course, grow much faster, but
the legacy products will remain to be important and still grow that if not double digit, I think high
single-digit. But new product will definitely increase percentage. So I expect that within the next 2
to 3 years and half of our sales will come from new products and the majority of the growth will
be coming from new products.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Leon. So this was the last question. Thank you so much for your interest and your
great questions. Just as a conclusion, I think I just like to remind everybody on a very strong sales
growth in quarter 2, 19% -- 17% year-to-date. And that growth is will be -- is coming from multi
sources. We have growth coming out of oncology, of course, 58%, $4 billion in the first half.
Growth coming out of the Emerging Markets that are up 24%. Japan, 31% up. We have our
BioPharmaceuticals division growing by double digit. So you can see that we are really broad-
based both from a portfolio viewpoint, but also from a geographical viewpoint. And this -- that
has always been a core part of our strategy.
So first of all, we drive the needs of patients around the world, not the needs of some patients in
some countries. But also, so we establish a resilient business moving forward. And there's always
ups and down in the world. Some countries are doing better than others. Some products will do
better than others. But overall, our broad base will help us manage these ups and downs and
continue growing over the next few years. We are focused on driving this top line and then
making sure this turns into an operating margin improvement. Our profit was up 44%. Our EPS
was $1.62. We still have a lot of work to do to deliver on our ambition over the next few months,
but importantly, over the next few years.
But as you can see, we are very much on track and very happy with the progress we've made.
The guidance, we improved it for sales. You heard why we didn't change it for EPS. We certainly
are transitioning to an organic growth faster than many people expected, which really is, we
believe, good news. And finally, but importantly, the pipeline continue to deliver and we are very
much looking forward to a very busy second half of 2019. So again, thank you for your interest and
look forward to further discussions in the months ahead.Thank you. Bye-bye.