Q3 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's third quarter 2019
performance and updated 2019 financial guidance. I'm joined today by our CEO, `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer;
`Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business, our CFO; `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and, President of Worldwide Research and Development;
`Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; John Young, our Chief
Business Officer; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call were posted to our website earlier this morning and
are available at pfizer.com/investors. You will see here that Slide 3 covers our legal disclosures.
Albert and Frank, will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question and
answer session.
With that I will now turn the call over to `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer. Albert?
`Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone. During my remarks, I will discuss our quarterly
business performance, the latest updates from our pipeline and our plans for Pfizer following the
anticipated completion of the Upjohn-Mylan combination, which we continue to expect to occur in
mid-2020. During the quarter, we delivered a strong performance highlighted by 9% operational
revenue growth in our Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, which will be the business that remains at
Pfizer following the anticipated closing of the Upjohn transaction.
We also saw revenue impacted by two expected events; the July Loss of Exclusivity in the US for
Lyrica and the July 31st completion of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture transaction with
GSK. For Biopharmaceuticals, once again this group's outstanding growth was driven primarily by
strong performance from our key growth drivers. These include Ibrance, Xtandi, Xeljanz, Eliquis,
Vyndaqel and Inlyta, as well as 15% operational growth in emerging markets, including 42%
operational growth in China. Our Biopharmaceutical business in China generated higher revenue
this quarter than the Upjohn business in the country.
Our Oncology business was particularly strong, up 30% operationally, compared with the year
ago quarter. Global revenues for Ibrance were up 27% operationally in the quarter to $1.3 billion.
We saw strong revenue growth in both US and international markets. We believe the continued
growth in the US is the result of our effort to target specific physicians who had not been
prescribing CDK inhibitors or had prescribed them to only a small set of patients.
For Xtandi, the alliance revenues in the US grew 25% to $225 million. In August, the FDA granted
Xtandi a priority review designation for the treatment of men with metastatic hormone-sensitive
prostate cancer with a PDUFA date in December. If approved, this represents yet another
potential growth driver for the brand. Inlyta revenues increased 98% operationally to $139 million.
This included 240% growth in the US, where Inlyta has benefited from recent FDA approvals for
the combination of Inlyta plus Bavencio and Inlyta plus Keytruda, in first-line treatment of
advanced renal cell carcinoma patients.
Beyond Oncology, we had several other strong product performances. Global revenues for
Xeljanz were up 40% operationally to $599 million. We saw continued volume growth in the
rheumatoid arthritis indication and the recent launches for psoriatic arthritis in the US and for
ulcerative colitis in both the US and several other developed markets also significantly contributed
to the growth. Eliquis, also continued to perform well. Global revenues were up 20% operationally
to $1 billion. This growth was driven primarily by continued increased adoption in non-valvular atrial
fibrillation as well as oral anti-coagulant market share gains.
Looking at our rare diseases business. Vyndaqel, continues to ramp up nicely in the US, following
the May 2019 approval and launch. Our early disease awareness efforts have helped drive the
diagnosis rates to greater than 4% in the quarter compared with 1% prior to the launch. As of end
of August, approximately 4,100 patients had been diagnosed, approximately 2,600 patients had
received the prescription for Vyndaqel and approximately 1,300 patients had received the drug.
This number, do not include the early access program. If you include this, the number of patients
receiving the drug increases to approximately 1,500.
Regarding Prevnar 13, revenues were down slightly across the global franchise. ACIP's updated
recommendation in the US for the vaccine for adults 65 and older, which is not effective until the
publication of the morbidity and mortality weekly report, reinforces that Prevnar 13 is considered
safe and effective by both the FDA and ACIP. We look forward to successfully completing the
Phase 3 studies for our investigational 20-Valent Pneumococcal Conjugate vaccine candidate. This
candidate represents a potential significant advancements compared with a potential 15-Valent
by introducing all serotypes contained in PCV15 plus 5 additional serotypes.In sterile injectables, we are seeing our focus on manufacturing recovery taking shape. Global
revenues increased 3% operationally and US revenues increased 1% operationally. We continue to
expect this business to be a solid growth contributor in the future.
Now let me move to Upjohn. Revenues for our Upjohn business were down 26% operationally in
the quarter. The decline was driven primarily by the expected significant volume declines in Lyrica
in the US due to multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019. Excluding the Lyrica
impact, the decline would have been only 6% operationally. Upjohn's China revenues increased
2% operationally, despite the volume-based procurement program in the 11 cities. Given this, we
now expect Upjohn's full-year 2019 revenues in China to grow by mid-to-high single digits
compared with full-year 2018, instead of low-to-mid single digit that we had predicted in our
previous earnings call. Consumer Healthcare, the third quarter 2019 revenues totaled $377 million,
down 54% operationally, reflecting the July 31st, 2019 completion of the Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture transaction with GSK.
Turning now to R&D, we continue to be excited with the progress we are making with our
pipeline, both in terms of the breadth of opportunities and the depth of the science. Since our
last earnings call on July 29th, we had seen some exciting milestones. In vaccines, we announced
positive preliminary results from a proof of concept Phase 2 study of our investigational 20-Valent
Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine under investigation for the prevention of invasive disease and
Otitis Media in Healthy Infants. Once data with the fourth dose are available, we intend to discuss
Phase 3 plans with regulators. We also have completed enrollment in our three Phase 3 pivotal
clinical trials evaluating our investigational 20-Valent vaccine for the prevention of invasive disease
and pneumonia in adults, 18 years and older.
In rare diseases, we completed the transfer from Sangamo to Pfizer of the manufacturing
processes for the investigational SB-525 gene therapy for severe hemophilia A. This month we
have enrolled the first patient in the lead-in trial of the Phase 3 clinical program. We expect to
begin dosing patients for that trial in the first half of 2020. On October 21st, Pfizer announced
jointly with our partner OPKO for the global Phase 3 trial evaluating somatrogon dosed once-
weekly in pre-pubertal children with growth hormone deficiency met its primary endpoint of non-
inferiority to daily injectable Genotropin. We are very pleased with the results because this
potential once-weekly solution may offer significant benefits to patients. We are looking forward
to presenting detailed data in a scientific conference and discussing them with the FDA and other
regulators.
In Inflammation and Immunology, we recently announced positive top line results from JADE
MONO-2. This was the second Phase 3 pivotal study, evaluating the efficacy and safety of our oral
JAK1 inhibitor, Abrocitinib in patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. These findings
are in addition to the positive results for our first Phase 3 study with Abrocitinib in this indication
where the full data were presented earlier this month at a medical conference.
In Internal Medicine, we recently entered into a worldwide exclusive licensing agreement with
Akcea Therapeutics for AKCEA ANGPTL3-LRx, an investigational antisense therapy being
developed to treat patients with certain cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. The therapies
currently being evaluated in a Phase 2 study in patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia
and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. We believe this novel therapy will complement our clinical
mid-stage Internal Medicine pipeline and that our deep expertise in cardiovascular and metabolic
diseases will help allow this program to reach its maximum potential for patients.
Lastly in Oncology, from our recent acquisition of Array, we presented interim analysis results
from the Phase 3 BEACON trial of Braftovi/Mektovi and cetuximab for the treatment of patientswith BRAF V600E-mutant metastatic colorectal cancer. Braftovi combinations showed statistically
significant improvements in overall survival and objective response rates versus control. We
recently submitted to the FDA a Supplementary New Drug Application with this data and as per
our usual practice, we will announce their decision regarding acceptance for review. And I'm
pleased to serve what we now have US launch days for three of our biosimilars recently approved
by the FDA. Zirabev, is expected to launch on December 31st of this year, 2019; Ruxience in
January of 2020 and Trazimera on February 15th of 2020. So, all in the near future.
Of course, none of our breakthroughs will do patients any good, if patients can't afford them.
Pfizer remains committed to working with policymakers at both the Federal and State levels and
on both sides of the aisle on common sense solutions to improve patient affordability. We are
making progress in certain areas. For example, our proposals regarding biosimilars have been
well received and by partisan legislation on this issue is advancing. We also continue to work with
policymakers and others in the healthcare system to find ways to reduce out-of-pocket costs at
the pharmacy counter, especially for seniors.
We are particularly encouraged that lawmakers recognize the need for an annual out-of-pocket
comp in Medicare Part B. And we are aggressively pursuing value-based arrangements that tie
reimbursement to the ability of our medicines to produce positive outcomes for patients. While
there has been a lot of discussion around less constructive proposals, it's difficult to imagine
Congress supporting policies, that will explicitly stand in the way of life-saving medicines being
developed and made available to American patients. Therefore, we remain confident that
common sense solutions can be found that will drive continued innovation and benefit patients.
In summary, we turned in another solid quarter, and our pipeline continues to be a source of
great hope and excitement for our company, our shareholders and the patients who rely on our
innovative medicines and vaccines. We also raised the midpoints for our 2019 revenue and
adjusted diluted EPS guidance ranges to reflect our strong performance to date as well as our
confidence in the business going forward. Frank, will provide more details on this in a moment.
Following the expected close of the Upjohn-Mylan transaction next year, Pfizer will be a smaller,
science-based company with a singular focus on innovative biopharma. All our current growth
drivers and pipeline will remain with Pfizer for this reason. And we expect Pfizer's five-year
revenue CAGR to be approximately 6% and for that growth to begin immediately upon the close
of the transaction.
Our Biopharmaceuticals Group is already growing at a similar pace. Starting in 2026, we will have
a new set of LOEs, but we expect the new wave of compounds currently in the pipeline, along
with the acquisitions of Therachon and Array Therapeutics, our equity interest in Vivet
Therapeutics and the in-licensed investigational therapy from Akcea, to help mitigate the impact
of these LOEs. These agreements represent the types of targeted BD initiatives, we will continue
to pursue to help strengthen our substrate for the second half of the next decade. These are
deliberate moves we are making because of the confidence we have in our science, in our ability
to commercialize important new medicines and vaccines and in our ability to continue to invest in
growth while returning capital to investors.
Now, let me turn it over to Frank to provide details on the quarter and our outlook for the
remainder of 2019. Frank?
`Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business
Thanks, Albert. Good day everyone. The charts I'm reviewing today are available on our website.
Now moving on to business performance. Our Biopharmaceuticals Group business recorded 9%recorded revenues of nearly $1.3 billion, an operational increase of 27%. This was composed of
48% operational growth in international markets and 18% growth in the US. Xeljanz globally up
40% operationally, primarily driven by 34% growth in the US as well as 61% operational growth in
international markets.
Eliquis globally up 20% operationally. The hospital business, up 9% operationally in emerging
markets and the US, primarily driven by continued growth from anti-infective products in China
and the November 2018 US launch of Panzyga. Vyndaqel, with sales of $156 million in the quarter,
with $79 million in the US following the launch for cardiomyopathy and then later in the US, where
revenues increased to $139 million, primarily driven by increased utilization in combination with
certain checkpoint inhibitors for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced renal cell
carcinoma, partially offset primarily by lower revenues for Enbrel internationally, down 19%
operationally, primarily reflecting continued biosimilar competition in most developed European
markets; and Prevnar 13 in the US, down 7% due to lower government pediatric purchases in the
third quarter of 2019, and continued decline in revenues for the adult indication.
Revenues for our Upjohn business in the third quarter decreased 26% operationally, primarily
driven by the expected significant volume declines for Lyrica in the US associated with multi-
source generic competition that began in July of 2019. Excluding the unfavorable impact of Lyrica
in the US, third quarter 2019 revenues for Upjohn declined 6% operationally due to continued
generic competition for certain off-patented products. These results were partially offset by
revenues in China, up 2% operationally, primarily driven by volume growth for Lipitor and Norvasc
in provinces with a volume-based procurement program has not yet been implemented as well
as operational growth from Viagra and partially offset primarily by volume declines and
unfavorable pricing impact in cities where the VBP program was implemented in March of 2019.
Pfizer now expects Upjohn revenues in China to grow operationally by mid-to-high single digits
for the full-year 2019 compared with 2018. Revenues for the consumer healthcare business in the
third quarter are not comparable with the third quarter of last year due to the completion of
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture transaction with GlaxoSmithKline. This quarters reporting
reflects approximately one month of consumer healthcare domestic operations and
approximately two months of consumer healthcare international operations. First is third quarter
of 2018 revenues, which reflect the full three months of consumer healthcare global operations.
In addition, Pfizer recognized an $8.1 billion pre-tax gain upon the completion of the Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture transaction, which reflects the difference in the fair value of Pfizer's 32%
equity stake in the joint venture compared to the carrying value of its Consumer Healthcare
business.
Finally, diluted weighted average shares outstanding declined by approximately 337 million
shares to 5.65 billion versus the year ago quarter, primarily due to Pfizer's ongoing share
repurchase program, reflecting the impact of share repurchases during 2018 and 2019, partially
offset by dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs. Foreign exchange
negatively impacted third quarter 2019 revenues by approximately $215 million and adjusted cost
of sales and positively impacted adjusted SI&A and adjusted R&D expenses. In aggregate foreign
exchange had $0.02 per share negative impact on adjusted diluted EPS compared to the year
ago quarter.
Moving on to 2019 financial guidance. We raised the midpoint of our 2019 guidance range for
revenues by $200 million to $51.2 billion to $52.2 billion composed of $400 million of operational
revenue growth partially offset by a $200 million unfavorable impact from changes in foreign
exchange. (technical difficulty)Sorry for the technical problems, everyone. So let me continue it's Frank. In addition, we now
expect adjusted cost of sales to be in the range of 19.3% to 19.8%, adjusted SI&A expenses to be
in the range of $13.5 billion to $14 billion, adjusted R&D expenses to be in the range of $7.7 billion
to $8.1 billion, and adjusted EPS to be in the range of $2.94 to $3.00 from $2.76 to $2.86, an
increase of $0.16 since the previous quarter, reflecting an $0.18 operational improvement, partially
offset by a $0.02 unfavorable impact from recent changes in foreign exchange rates. This
guidance assumes diluted weighted average shares outstanding of approximately 5.7 billion
shares, which reflects the weighted average impact of share repurchases, totaling $8.9 billion
executed in 2019. Dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs is currently
expected to offset the reduction in shares associated with these share repurchases by
approximately half. Our 2019 guidance for adjusted other income deducts in the effective tax rate
on adjusted income did not change. We continue to expect adjusted other income deducts to be
$200 million of income and the effective tax rate to be approximately 16%.
Now moving on to key takeaways. We delivered a strong quarter. Revenues with the Pfizer
Biopharmaceuticals Group grew 9% operationally versus the year ago quarter, driven by Ibrance,
Xeljanz, Eliquis, Vyndaqel, Inlyta and Xtandi. We updated our 2019 financial guidance, increasing
the midpoint of our adjusted EPS guidance range by $0.18 operationally. We accomplished
multiple product and pipeline milestones since our previous quarterly update and we returned
$14.9 billion to shareholders through the third quarter, through a combination of dividends and
share repurchases. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in
2019 and beyond.
Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.
`Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Albert and Frank for the prepared comments. Operator, can we please move to the
Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Q - `Christopher Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan Chase & Co `
Great, thanks very much for the questions. I guess just two here. First, I know you're not giving
2020 guidance at this point, but relative to your initial 2020 comments made with Upjohn, maybe
just give us any -- just flavor in terms of business trends or any franchises that are performing
ahead or behind, maybe some of the initial expectations? And my second question was, was
about kind of the next wave of pipeline opportunities. Because it seems to me, when I hear the
enthusiasm you have about that pipeline that there is a bit of a disconnect between Street
expectations and Pfizer expectations on the pipeline. So when you look at that portfolio, are
there assets in particular where you see a particularly -- a gap relative to I guess what we're
thinking versus your expectations as we kind of focusing on some of these updates over the next
few years? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Chris. Let me try to speak a little bit about your question on guidance of
next year and then I will ask also Frank to help me on that. And then I will ask Michael Dawson toBoard approves our operating plan. And this every year happens in the mid of December of
2000 -- of every year and usually we do it in the next earnings call, which happens in January. This
year in the mid of the year in July, because of the transaction, we had to provide some financial
targets for Upjohn. As a result, we felt that it is going to be awkward if we do not give also some
financial targets for all of the RemainCo in 2020.
But of course, we did that with a lot of unknowns and with great distance from the year of 2020,
so we were appropriately cautious I would say. Since then, a lot of things happened and
happened in the areas that we wanted to see how things could perform. For example, we were
not certain how the ACIP recommendation for Prevnar would affect the adult business. We were
not certain how the label for Xeljanz, the black box that we received in the change in label for
Xeljanz, how that would affect the prescription habits of physicians. We were not sure how
Ibrance effort that started in the beginning of this year to increase the market size rather than
focus on increasing our own markets around it and that had given very good results in the second
quarter will continue as we go into the third quarter, but we were not certain how the newly
approved Inlyta compared to Bavencio together with Bavencio and together with Keytruda
indication will transform into performance into the market, and we were not certain how
expanding new indications were before and also how the new products, which is our Vyndaqel in
cardiomyopathy eventually will do. As a fact of the matter, all six of them did much better than
what we were expecting. And this is extremely, extremely positive of course. We are not going to
provide now the guidance for next year, but definitely, things have improved compared to what
we sold in the second quarter.
Moving to Upjohn, also the same sentiment. We had provided $7.5 billion to $8 billion for next
year and we had said, that -- which by the way significantly lower than what Upjohn is doing now,
because we wanted to make sure that we incorporate the impact predominantly in China of the
volume-based procurement system. And for the same reasons, we said that the second half of
this year will be lower and that will drive our growth in China in general it could be low-to-mid
single digit for China. In fact we're upgrading that now and we are saying that for this year, our
growth will be mid-to-high digit growth in China portion of the Upjohn business and again we're
not going to provide guidance for 2020 for Upjohn, but we will do that together with the total
company after our Board approves in mid-December, but we have updated the guidance for this
year obviously, because of the very good results of the third quarter.
Frank, anything to add to that please.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business
I would just add two things, one, our current expectation is we would provide guidance for 2020
like we typically do on our fourth quarter earnings call. But the only other thing I would add is --
but please understand that we intend to improve upon the 2020 numbers that we previously
issued that we talked about that we're appropriately cautious for the reasons that Albert
discussed.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Now from the financials, let's go to things that are driving the financials, which is our
strength of our pipeline. So `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and, please, go ahead.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you, Albert. So let me say a few words. First, we have a large and strong pipeline with 98
projects from Phase 1 to registration and its contribution from all of our five therapeutic areas andit is driven by multiple science franchises, and not dependent on one or two vulnerable
compounds. Number 2, our R&D productivity had improved consistently over the last few years.
Let me exemplify with our Phase 2 success rates have now been exceeding 40% for a number of
years well above the benchmark.
We estimate that earlier between 2018 and 2022, 25 to 30 approvals from 2018 to year-to-date,
we're already at 11. Within that approval wave, let me exemplify our focus on the 15 in five
strategy to deliver blockbuster approvals. And within that cohort as you have seen, we have had
really good progress and both Phase 2 and Phase 3 success rate or high and robust and also it is
most valuable compound. Now I wanted to conclude and give you more of near-term
opportunities for our pipeline. So between now and end-2020, you may want to remember the
metrics 15 plus 10 plus 5 plus 5, 15 relates to 15 POC readouts -- upto 15 POC readouts, 10 to --
10 Phase 3 starts and then 5 for 5 Phase 3 readout and 5 key approvals.
Let me give a few example on the POCs that you can keep an eye on. We have five different
POC -- upto five different POC readout in our JAK franchise including an indications across topical
atopic dermatitis, psoriasis, vitiligo and also psoriatic arthritis for an oral drug. We have a strong
momentum in our gene therapy platform. Albert mentioned in his introduction, our Factor 18
therapy where we are expecting soon POC readout and have started to enroll for baseline
characteristics in Phase 3. We are progressing well with our DMD gene therapy, and we have
reached proof-of-concept for our tissue factor pathway inhibitor monoclonal antibody. We're also
going to strengthen our hemophilia and Phase 3 plans are underway.
In Internal Medicine, I want to punctuate angiopoietin L3 deal pending close that we expect to
have a POC readout early next year. Our vaccine franchise also has a number of intriguing data
sets to be shared. Obviously, the [ph]PNG pediatric plus faustus , RSV maternal Phase 2 data next
year, followed by Phase 3 start pending data. And also in our meningococcal pentavalent vaccine,
we have actually reached very promising Phase 2 readouts and are reviewing them to be shared
for a potential Phase 3 start.
Finally, in our Oncology franchise, we have the readout next year expected for our anchor
BRAF/MEK first line, we have data coming from our next generation CDKs and from HER2 breast
cancer ADC. So as you can see I exemplified some out of the many POC readouts coming from
now to next year, and just punctuate that of course the late-stage pipeline to which you are more
familiar with, have major interesting things in 2020. High on everyone's agenda is the Ibrance
early breast cancer, which we strongly look forward to. And I feel encouraged and optimistic
about that salience ankylosing spondylitis JAK1 in the comparator atopic dermatitis study that is
the final data set for then moving to potential submission. And of course then PNG adult. I'm sorry
for somewhat lengthy, but it's actually reflected the many exciting things to happen from now to
end of 2020.
Q - `Christopher Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan Chase & Co `
Thank you, Mikael.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great, thank you. We move to the next question please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore.Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, thanks so much for taking my questions and congrats on the quarter. I wanted to touch upon
three things today, if I may. First, Albert, there's been a lot of investor questions on whether Pfizer
could potentially be interested in M&A to recover the EPS dilution because of Upjohn. I just -- I just
wanted to ask where you shake out on that? The first one. Secondly on Upjohn, I noticed there
was an S-4 filed yesterday where Pfizer's internal forecast was that Upjohn stays at $7.8 billion to
$8 billion post 2020 even though there would have been a Lyrica patent expiry worth $800 million
in Japan and even though China 4 plus then would have intensified. So my question is what's
driving this potential $1.5 billion to $2 billion worth of revenue shortfall to keep Upjohn stable at
close to $8 billion post 2020? And finally on Tafamidis, it's very encouraging to see you're already
at 40,800 patients and my question is, is it conceivable -- is it inconceivable that Pfizer could hit
more than 40,000 patients diagnosed at peak? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Excellent question Umer. So let me start with an M&A. Frank can cover the Upjohn forecast and
then of course, Angela could speak about Tafamidis. On the M&A strategy, look, since the July of
2018, when I as Chief Operating Officer at that time I articulated the strategy going forward on
several items including M&A strategy. We are very consistent. Right now we are poised for
organic growth. Our organic growth, we forecast will be on a five years CAGR, 6%. I know the
analyst expectation is even higher.
This number, even the 6%, compared to the analyst expectations likely will position -- if not likely
is positioning us compared to the data and our peer set, let's say, the top 10 to 15 companies in
the industry will be the second largest in terms -- the second fastest growing company in the next
five years with a 6% in terms of rate. And actually the largest in terms of producing gross dollars,
because we are going to of course, of our size, of course. So any efforts, that we're going to do,
I'm not going to jeopardize that. So we are not the name of the game for us, like I said it many
times, it is top line growth.
And M&A of scale, they have the tendency, one, very difficult to find someone that will not be
accretive given that we are the second fastest in our growth. And secondly, it is very disruptive
operationally and we can always do a large M&A, but we have a very clear window of opportunity
now to get it right with our pipeline, to get it right with our launches. As you can see we are doing
very well. I don't want to put that at risk. Our business development strategy will continue to be
bolt-on, but we'll have a focus on R&D. And when I speak about R&D, again as I said before, I
want to be very clear, we are looking for Phase 2 assets, [ph]ready Phase 2, ready Phase 3 assets
that likely the ones that we did in the last four business development activities that will provide
revenues at the post '26, '27 period, when we started feeling again some of the [ph]wins and we
want make sure that the 6% growth is sustainable for the decade,
the whole decade, rather than only for the first six, seven years would indicate. So this is our
strategy. We are not looking for a large M&A right now. And with that I'll move to Frank to speak a
little bit about of the Upjohn projections and what we said in our Board presentation, which I think
is pretty much in line with what we gave as a guidance for next year.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business
Yes, so for Upjohn the 2020 revenue number that we put out there was $7.5 billion to $8 billion.
By the way, that number reflected the Lyrica LOE and it reflected the China VBP. In fact we
anticipated the expansion of the China VBP in that number in terms of going expansion for 11cities, 12 provinces, 50% share to 70% share, that range anticipated the impact of VBP in China.
So a couple of comments on how do we get to the rhythm of the numbers that you alluded to. So
I think about this quarter, Upjohn China, this quarter grew 2%. How do we grow 2%? Basically, it
was able to mitigate the impact of the procurement program with geographic expansion within
the country.
We believe that that's an opportunity that continues on a going forward basis. We also believe
that there is opportunities for that business in emerging markets outside of China and continuing
opportunities for that business in the rest of the world given the breadth of the portfolio, it's
going to have and quite frankly the pipeline that the new company has on a going forward basis.
So that's why you get to the numbers that were put into S-4.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
And then, Angela please about Tafamidis.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Thanks for the question. Certainly, we are extremely pleased with the diagnosis rate of ATTR-CM
that we have seen to date, which was about 4% to 5%. But even with that, it's important to
remember that it is still severely under-diagnosed disease and we have a long way to go in terms
of achieving what we believe our patients deserve. There are two aspects to this diagnosis. The
first is, suspicion or suspecting the disease and the second is the ability to detect the disease. As
you know because we've spoken about this over the last several quarters, we have been
intensely focused on our educational efforts to help physicians suspect the disease and this has
been helped by the recently published reds [phonetic] like symptoms, which makes it easier for
physicians to see the possible clinical symptoms of ATTR-CM and helping them to drive suspicion
of this disease.
From there, we have been educating around the use of scintigraphy as a non-invasive means to
diagnose ATTR-CM. And we're pleased to see that to date, about 90% of our diagnosis is now
being driven through scintigraphy. Scintigraphy, as you know is a well-established imaging
technique and it's widely available across the US in cardiology practices. Actually we estimate
about 15,000 of these diseases are available in cardiology practices throughout the country. And
we're seeing then this willingness and the readiness of physicians to adopt ATTR-CM diagnosis
through this mechanism. I know that benchmarks that we have quoted in the past, show that a
diagnosis rate of about 30% to 50% is what most rare diseases have achieved up till now and
that is what drove our peak estimates. However, we are learning a tremendous amount every
single day about this particular disease, about what it takes to diagnose it and certainly we are
focused on making sure that we can do better than that for our patients.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Angela. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thanks very much. I have two questions. First, could you just update us on the timing of the
Ibrance adjuvant interim efficacy look? And second, I was hoping you could speak to the grossmargin upside in the quarter in a little bit more detail and comment on the sustainability of strong
gross margins? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Very interesting questions, David. I think again, Michael, can provide an update on the
timing of Ibrance and of course for margins, the master of margins improvements, Mr. Frank
D'Amelio. Micheal?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. We tend, in general, not to be specific about interim analysis in any programs. We expect the
program to run to completion in 2020. There is an interim analysis a little bit earlier in 2020, but
most likely it will run to completion. And we remain optimistic about the outcome of the study
based on Ibrance's very strong performance. More recently event supported by real world
evidence data that was very favorable across the different aspects of progression fees survival
and also robust on overall survival, actually having hazard ratio of less than 0.6, which probably
the strongest hazard ratio provided so far and we will update the hazard ratio as the study
matures. Thank you very much.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you, Michael.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business
So, David, I'll answer the gross margin question and I think I'll also just add in even though you
didn't ask a little bit about operating margins too. So on gross margins, let's do it based on cost
of sales. If you look at our own cost of sales year-over-year, Q3, 2018, 20.1%; Q3, 2019, 19.4%, so
directionally correct right, down on a year-over-year basis. What drove the improvement? Really a
couple of things, one is some cost improvements that we were able to implement in our global
supply chain organization, obviously, our manufacturing plants and the like. And then secondly we
had some very favorable product mix, right. If you look at where our revenue growth was, alliance
revenues were up 18% year-over-year, Ibrance grew so -- and then Vyndaqel. So we had some
very favorable product mix.
If you look at our operating margin for the quarter, high-30s, approximately 30%. So if you look at
the trending and then you think about going forward, one key on that operating margin with them
will be the revenue growth. So obviously, we're saying now, we think 6% operational revenue
growth going forward that will clearly help our operating margins on a going forward basis,
relative to what we had said back in July, because we'll leverage that to the bottom line. As I
mentioned earlier, clearly our intent is to improve upon the numbers that we provided previously
that we're cautious, appropriately cautious back in July. So net-net, we think we can improve upon
the numbers we provided and we'll give you all an update on that when we give our 2020
guidance.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Frank. Next question please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Thank you.Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A couple of questions. On your revenue guidance of five-year CAGR of 6%,
consensus is not at that level. And I'm wondering if there is any big areas that jump out at you,
specifically as being mis-modeled by the analyst community and as much as you've looked at that
sort of thing? And then on Abrocitinib, your JAK inhibitor, you're running a trial called JADE
Compare head-to-head versus Dupixent always bold to take on a product head-to-head. It looks
like this trial should be reading out in December of this year. So coming up. I'm wondering what
we should realistically expect from that both in terms of efficacy and safety. It seems that, at least
on safety and tolerability, it almost can't look as good as Dupi because it's a small molecule JAK
inhibitor, but maybe you can kind of tell us what you expect that trial will show?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think again the R&D question, I think we'll go to Michael, just a brief comment. Look we
speak about our numbers right. And the 6% that we're providing for our numbers, we are very,
very comfortable with this number. Always we want to make sure what we say, what we do and
we do what we say. So I don't want to jeopardize that. So I'm giving numbers that we feel very
comfortable to achieve. I have seen a lot of reports of analysts that they are having higher
numbers than that that's why I refer to that and I'm going to check what is the consensus on that,
but, as I said, I don't want to comment on other people's -- you are doing your job and we're
doing our job. We feel very comfortable on the 6%. Michael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes, thank you very much for shedding light on the Compare study. So we are very excited about
that study as it concludes our potential filing material including then aggregator safety data. It is a
head-to-head against the dupilumab Dupixent and we felt that, it's an important trial in the sense
we expect both drugs to show tolerability and safety that are favorable. We expect Abrocitinib
based on current historical comparison to do very well on efficacy, on clearance of scheme. And
we have specifically an endpoint on its relief pruritus reduction, which is one of the critical most
patient friendly centered endpoints and we expect, and I believe that Abrocitinib would
outperform Dupixent in a very clinical meaningful manner as it has a strong fast onset and data
available althought not head-to-head showed that the JAK1 class not just performed better
clinically so far and head-to-head is the reason why we wanted to document that hypothesis. But
there is also science behind it. It inhibits the Interleukin-31, that is a major itch mediator which is
not covered by Dupixent. So I hope that gave you some insight into our enthusiasm.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business
And Tim, it's Frank. I just wanted to add to what Albert said, remember when the new company is
formed between our Upjohn business and Mylan, RemainCo, our new Pfizer is our Pfizer
Biopharma business. Our Biopharma business this quarter grew 9%. The last couple of quarters,
grew 6%, 7%. So that approximately 6% that Albert gave, we've been printing now literally for the
last few quarters. And remember when newco was formed, new Pfizer or RemainCo keeps all of
the growth drivers that we currently talked about on this call. So that portfolio -- the momentum
that portfolio carries into the new Pfizer.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Very good points Frank.Thank you. We move to our next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Q - `Stephen Scala, Analyst, Cowen
Thank you. I have a couple, first for Michael. The press release says that after three doses in
infants, the safety of 20-Valent Pneumococcal Vaccine is similar to Prevnar 13, but you don't say
the efficacy is similar after three doses in terms of immune response to the 13-valents that they
have in common. Can you comment on that point and the response to the additional 7 valents? I
know Prevnar 13 is afford dose regimen, but you must have data after three doses? So that's the
first question.
Second question for Frank, should something draconian come out of Washington that overnight
cut revenue by 10%, a 20% reduction in operating expenses would appear require to protect the
bottom line. Could a 20% reduction in operating expenses be delivered, and if yes , would it take
six months, 12 months or would it take much longer? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Michael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. You know, we share data on the three immunizations and it was a descriptive study not
powered for efficacy, but I my take at this was as in the press release, we had very robust rise in
immune titers against all 20 serotypes. And at this stage it look very similar to the PCV 13 when
you look at the totality of data. And you know the immune titers also are supplemented by
functional antibody responses that we're now obtaining that again look very robust for the PCV
20 across all serotypes. I wanted to also to say that know increasingly available epidemiology
data strengthened the notion that the PCV 20 has a very broad coverage, far exceeding PCV 15
developed by a competitor where you look at the infant population to adult population, US or
European major countries and where you look at IPD and CAPs. So we're very pleased with the
emerging data and increased insights into epidemiology that indicates this vaccine has the
potential to provide the broadest ever coverage for pneumococcal disease.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business
And then Steve, if there was some draconian action that resulted in 10% impact on our revenue,
which is a big number, then clearly we would have to revisit our cost structure. I mean, how could
we not? In terms of how much we can do with how quickly we would do it, quite frankly, we'd
have to work our way through that. But the short answer is, we would clearly -- we view our cost
structure -- every element of the cost structure by the way, which we do all the time anyway, and
then see what we'd have to do to deal with -- quite frankly what the model is -- what the business
model is going forward -- going forward. A 10% decline in our revenues is a change in our
business model and we'd have to obviously, look at that in terms of how we run our business on a
going forward basis.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Frank. Next question please.Operator
Your next question comes from `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS from UBS.
Q - `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS `
Hi. Two questions if I may. Number 1 on Hospira, as you have stabilized that business and the
manufacturing capabilities there, wondering if you could help us understand to what extent there
have been lost revenues quote-unquote over the last two years that would -- yet you may have
been able to have if Hospira had been at full capacity and that basically, what I'm asking is, how
much do you think you can recover going forward for Hospira and how quickly could that growth
be achieved? And then on the C. difficile vaccine, I think the Phase 3 was supposed to read out in
2020, but I think you just went through an interim analysis in the DSMB or the monitoring board
suggested to expand that study, wondering when the readout for that Phase 3 will be now?
Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. I think, Angela can answer the Hospira question. I like to say something, for us, the
manufacturing issues and the supply issues for Hospira created, I would say a lot of trust with our
customer. This is for me the most important, okay. And that's why we took it very seriously and
we were very transparent with them and we created also a hospital business unit because this is
mostly hospital products, so that can be very customer focused only on the hospitals, so that we
can make sure that we had the relations, that we had before field and make them very strong.
And I have to say that we were very successful on that and what the customers appreciated the
most was the transparence. Obviously, there is business that we lost and we hope that we will
recover most of it. Angela, what do you think?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure. I think the way I would think about the future growth of the hospital business unit and even
Hospira would be in the following way. I think there is a portion of the revenue that was lost as a
result of the supply issues that we would recover. There is a portion that we wouldn't recover, but
that isn't -- I guess that's not the only source of growth, I think the way to think about growth also
is what we're doing to continue to diversify that portfolio and to bring in new launches. You heard
Frank talk about Panzyga, as one of those and in our pipeline and in our -- in our portfolio today,
our continuous launches, both from a presentation and a device perspective as well as from the
molecule perspective.
I think the other -- the other element of the hospital business unit that we also need to consider is
the strong anti-infective portfolio that is part of that business unit. Those are sterile injectables
and in that unit -- in that portion of the business are a number of new launches that began a
couple of years ago and are now launching globally. So that's how I would think about growth in
that portfolio, is that it's not dependent purely on the replacement or the regaining of business. A
portion of it is, but much more of it is dependent on new ventures and new spaces that we are
venturing into.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Michael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `On the C. diff, yes, we were pleased with the aspect that safety and tolerability with regard as
favorable at the interim analysis and clearly the futility analysis indicated that the study should
continue. While we tried to target the high-risk patients for C. diff infection by looking at increased
risk for contact with healthcare community or recent use of antibiotics, we are of course, pioneers
in this area of developing a vaccine for this urgent need for preventing what can be fatal C. diff
infections.
So we'll use all our insights to learn today to make sure that we can continue and expand
enrollment to follow the advice from the monitoring committee to make sure we can conclude
this study as soon as possible. And of course, there is an urgency with 50,000 C. diff infections
every year in US and close to 30,000 of diff and we'll do everything possible to accelerate the
readout of the study and get the events. We clearly do accumulated events, although somewhat
slower than we initially hoped, but rest assured that we will do everything we can to make sure
the readouts is coming as soon as possible and we will later update you with more firm aspects
of that.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks Michael. Next question please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Your portfolio is heavily exposed to high list price, heavy Part B exposed drugs. I'm
obviously thinking about Ibrance, Inlyta, Xtandi and so on and so forth. You mentioned -- you
welcomed the proposal to cap out of pocket spends under Medicare Part B, but within the same
Finance Committee proposal, there is also an obligation for you to fund catastrophic coverage to
the tune of 20% and even larger contribution from the plan sponsor. So my question is what is
your comfort level with that part of the proposal and to what extent do you think, particularly in
crowded classes like the CDK 4/6 is, the obligation on the plan providers to fund catastrophic --
catastrophic coverage is going to further increased price competition in the segment? And then
the second question, if I quickly is, historically in veiled against some of your competitors for
basically holding Xeljanz into very treatment refractory settings, given accession of their rebate
power, I'm thinking particularly of Humira, what's your confidence level that you're going to be
able to secure favorable market positions with JAK's given drugs like Dupixent that are going to
be generating significant rebates for the PBMs in the commercial book of business by the time
you hit the market? Many thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Let me try to answer your question about the out of pocket and all these
reforms in the Medicare that have been proposed. And then I will ask Angela to speak about
Xeljanz. When it comes to price reforms there are things that we agree and are things that we do
not agree. But I would tell you that we are fanatical in favor of reducing out-of-pocket cost for
patients. Because right now the fundamental issue that drives this polarization in the political
environment around healthcare, it is a real problem and the problem is that the Americans are
paying for their medicines. Like if they are nothing short, although they are having insurance,
when they go to collect them from the counter of the pharmacist. This is not happening with the
hospital, this is not happening with diagnostics, this is not happening with other medical
interventions, at least to the degree, what was happening with medicines and this is why the drugpricing is so high in the debate. Although, that they represent only 10%, 12% of the total
healthcare cost. So that needs to be addressed.
Now that way that the Senate for example is proposing for aggressive or even worse to the
House, they are going to increase the contribution of the pharmaceutical companies and of
course, this will help. But this is -- the list of my problems [ph] over it because at least what hurts
us helps the patients. My issue with this POC business, a lot of other measures that they're
suggesting that hurt us even more. They are not moving the savings to the patients, which is the
fundamental issue that's right now societies is dealing with and this is our efforts here. I believe
that it is to the benefit of the industry, it is to the benefit of innovation, it is to the benefit of
patients, it is to the benefit of the healthcare system to reduce the cap -- to reduce the out-of-
pocket expenses, either with a rebate reform or if that's not on the picture right now, by reducing
the -- by implementing a cap for out-of-pocket, it is of paramount importance, even if you have to
pay for it. And Xeljanz, Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
So, it is true that we may look back the Xeljanz access has been challenging through time, but
certainly, we over the last several years have worked hard with our payers as well as our PDMs as
well as amassing, I think some really strong scientific and patient experience and evidence behind
Xeljanz, that is creating momentum for this particular product. The I&I category generally is one
that is the most heavily rebated and and I think that we have demonstrated our ability to be a real
solution in this space of great unmet need. And as evidenced just compared to last year this time
we now have 32 million more incremental lives in Medicare and commercial channels that have
gained unrestricted access, and specifically in fact just this past May we gained an additional 8
million lives. So I think that this is sort of good evidence to show how we are working hand-in-hand
with our payers, as well as our PDMs as to bring the totality of our data and our experience to
bear and filling an area of great unmet need.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Angela. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, thanks for taking the questions. Albert, you mentioned a few of your upcoming biosimilar
launches, just wondering if you can help frame for us, the potential size of the opportunity as you
think about the long-term there and maybe walk through some of the remaining hurdles in terms
of establishing a robust biosimilars market in the US? And then Angela, just wondering any more
color you can provide on the Xtandi dynamics in terms of either share among the different
segments or maybe mix of the prescriber base? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Let me speak a little bit above generally about the biosimilars and then I will ask Angela who will
answer the second question on the specifics in the biosimilars potential that we are going to
launch. I think in the US, unlike other countries there is a problem with the system and the system
is that there is -- the fundamental issue that there is this rebate trough, but payers overall they do
see the benefit of using biosimilar solution of what physicians would like to prescribe and that theFDA, saying that has similar efficacy and safety, and it is much cheaper. Although they want to do
that, they are trapped and they cannot because they are going to lose the benefits or the
rebates what the originator is offering them.
And I think frankly, but unless if we resolve this big issue we will never be able to see tremendous
progress on biosimilars. So this is something I think that the political work understanding. This is
something that we are very vocal about it. This is something that we are discussing constantly
with payers, who they want to move to new solutions, but they cannot. And I think that there is
positive momentum on that, but still I repeat, to be able to see transformational change in the
penetration of biosimilars. So the healthcare system can see realized significant savings can only
happen if we find a solution to that. We have also suggested other measures like the savings to
be served by providers etc., etc., but I think that's the fundamental one.
Now all biosimilars are not the same because -- and not all markets are the same. When you have
close systems like the [ph]Kaizers for example the penetration question is very, very high,
because they can see the benefit of doing something like that. But when you have intermediates
being involved, but then big rebates in play, it's very difficult for them to do it. And also Oncology
is very different also biosimilars from I&I biosimilars, because the I&I, they are giving, for very
expensive periods of time. So you need the suites. New patients aren't coming very often.
Oncology is very different because this is more limited the period that they are -- the therapies
are used and then the patients are coming much more often -- new patients are coming much
more often in higher proportion.
But, Angela maybe you want to add into that and then also provide and answer the second
question.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure, I think Albert has said, much of it and maybe what I can add is the following. I think within the
context of the fact that the US dynamics are very different from the European dynamics, where
you see a much greater adoption of biosimilars, what we have seen with our supportive care
biosimilar, which is Retacrit, is that we've seen some nice growth there. To date it has a 16%
market share, which is the highest that we've seen of any biosimilar here in the US and I think that
that tells us -- and that's given us the opportunity to learn about what it will take to launch
oncology biosimilars as well as what we can expect in this particular space. So I think with the
three biosimilars coming within -- one after the other December, January, February of end of this
year, we look forward to driving the growth of this portfolio of biosimilars in an area of high unmet
need for patients.
As it pertains to Xtandi, you do see a tremendous growth here this quarter. We had a great
quarter growing 25% year-over-year, and I think that this is evidence of the great confidence that
our prescribers, both urologists and medical oncologists are having with Xtandi. We have leading
market share at 37% branded in a growing class and the plus as well has been one that has
grown 3 points from last quarter to this quarter. So when we look at our sources of patients for
Xtandi, they come in two forms. First, it's the non-metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer,
where we continue to see increases, both in total patients as well as new patient since the
PROSPER approval. And just as a measure of PROSPER, urologists are generally the prescribers in
earlier disease setting, and here urology prescribing is growing at 44%, and so we're continuing
to see the proportion of our business from PROSPER growth very positively. Also to remember
that these patients are earlier in terms of their course of disease and therefore have higher days
of therapy. So this will drive -- this will drive the prescriptions and the revenues.In metastatic CRPC castrate-resistant prostate cancer, which is still the majority of our business.
Our new patient share continues to increase there too. And here we had not only have the
number one share of voice with oncologists, but our prescribing with oncology -- medical
oncology continues to grow significantly as well and this quarter at 21%. And so when you bring all
of this together and you add into that -- the approval, or the positive of the Phase 3 results, we
got from from [ph]Asmed and the the submissions that we have for additional indications in both
the non-metastatic hormone-sensitive setting as well as additional data from the EMBARK study. I
think that what we have in Xtandi is a uniquely positioned NHT that is going to be able to treat
multiple indications in both hormone-sensitive as well as castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Excellent, thanks Angela. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. So my first question is that in consensus there is a meaningful
step up in Ibrance sales through 2023. And do you think you can grow Ibrance double digits
without an adjuvant or neoadjuvant approval? And then second question I had is on Abrocitinib,
based on the safety data that you've seen thus far, is there a chance that you will not get a black
box warning like other JAK15 in the industry? And then last question I had was if you could give an
update on your DMD program, where you stand today, the competitiveness of your program
versus some of the other ones out there, based on the data that you've seen thus far? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Just a quick answer on the Ibrance and then I think on Abrocitinib and DMD will be covered by
Mikael. Again in the spirit, that I don't want to comment what is the analyst expectations. I know
what are our expectations. And we are projecting that we will grow Ibrance double digit and are
also expecting that we will receive the -- that we will have, let's say, positive PALLAS [ph] study,
which is the main study about driving expansion of prescriptions and drivers. So of course
everything is risk adjusted in our projections and some will be positive, some will be negative, but
the 6% that we are taking with (inaudible) is not based on one or two, but is based on risk
adjustment of mutliples. So we are feeling very comfortable, but overall we will let's say because
we can face and other one would succeed and that one will derisk the revenues or will be much
higher. And Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. So starting with Abrocitinib, you know, I think it's a good question, you raised here that each
JAK inhibitor are different and we designed our JAK inhibitors for optimal use depending on the
condition, and it's hard for me to express a strong view here on the potential black box as it's
really the decision of the FDA. I can only say that we have so far seen a very good safety profile
and we have not seen any cardiovascular signals at all with this drug. And as you've seen in our
reported trial, efficacy has been very strong. So we look forward to finalize the program,
generate the compare data that could show potential advantages with faster onset versus
standard of care Dupixent and then have a dialog with FDA. The DMD program we are continuing
dosing patients and we reported at the PPMD Conference that we had transduced more than70% of the muscle fibers and expressed mean dystrophin at 30% of normal that we think is in the
range that where you should see benefit.
Interestingly, we also shared with you, using the North Star Ambulatory Activity Scale that we had
two patients, where we saw a benefit in increased performance. And please remember, these
patients were older than patient reported by other players in the field, and older patients are the
harder is to show benefit as the natural history is to decline. So we are concluding, we hope to
start in a relative short time frame and pending final data set, we are preparing for start of Phase
3 next year. And hope certainly that these type of therapy can transform patients' lives for these
poor boys.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Michael. And operator, can we take our last question please.
Operator
Your final question comes from `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys, thanks for the question. Just had a few. Angela for Vyndaqel, I just want to
get a little bit more detail on the rollout in the US? Obviously, I know it's early, but from the field,
how would you characterize reimbursement and access and other commercial lessons to be
learned from the EU? And then, Albert, just to put a finer point on your comments for long-term
growth and deals. I mean, when you look at the LOE starting in 2026, you mentioned the pipeline
readouts as a clearly an offset, but can that or smaller tuck-in deals be enough to still get you to
growth over the course of the decade? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Great. And so from a reimbursement perspective, I think that we are seeing things pan out
exactly as we thought. As you know, the large majority of our patients would be Medicare
patients because the -- just the age and the prevalence of the disease in this particular
population. But currently, we're seeing about 80% of our patients in the Medicare bucket, about
12% in the commercial lives bucket and then of the remainder in Medicaid and others. And so
anticipating that this would be sort of how the patient -- I guess the patient mix would look. We
created at the launch of Vyndaqel, a number of programs to support the reimbursement of
Vyndaqel. And, so for example, in the commercial patients, we have a co-pay card, a co-pay
assistance program. For all patients, we have a bridge program to ensure that patients can
receive access to Vyndaqel, while they're waiting for their reimbursement decisions. And for
Medicare patients, we're exploring -- we're in the process of exploring a number of ways that we
can help lower co-pay costs for Medicare patients including working with payers on innovative
contracting approaches, which will then help to lower their co-pay. And then of course there is
always a portion of patients that are on our free drug program.
But I think all in all, what we're learning from these early days in the market, is that the solutions
that we have are definitely supporting our patients in the way that they need, and then not to
forget, we still have the support from the Pfizers patient hub as well as a number of specialtythat prior authorizations. And I think that this service has been hugely helpful in helping us to clear
(inaudible) and get our patients on drug as soon as possible.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer `
And Geoff, to your question about if we believe that this growth going to be sustainable in the
post '25, '26 period? The answer is yes. Look, it is normal for companies, who have LOEs. What is
up is not to have LOEs, but it is normal for companies to have LOEs and ourselves, we will come
back to normality, actually not even in 2026, 2026, with a very very small number of LOEs. From
'27, we are coming back to normal LOEs as a percentage of sales. And then this we need to with
better because as we know right now . Normal in '27. So this is eight years from us, right. So I feel
very comfortable, but we will have enough time and we have a pipeline that is very diversified
and we have a strategy -- double down only to develop substrate that will deliver on that. So
when the Company's on normality, we'll be able to continue growing at the same rate that we
are growing right now. I think that's the end. I don't think we have time. We exceeding our time.
So, I want to thank you all for joining us today. I like to lot this call. There were fewer questions
from financials because they were still of course. And we devoted most of the time with the
pipeline, which is exactly what we want to do in to growth drivers for the business, which is exactly
what an earnings call -- what successful pharmaceutical company should look like. BNw as we
move toward the expected close of the Upjohn-Mylan transaction next year, I expect that both
businesses will be significantly strengthened. We expect Pfizer RemainCo to be positioned to
deliver top and bottom line growth, but it's among the industry leaders and you know what, we
want to be the leader and so we will improvise and by bringing together Mylan's growth products
into Upjohn's growth markets, we are creating the leading off patent for our company with a
strong financial profile and through global reach. For all these reasons, it is an exciting time for our
company and we will remain highly focused on executing against this. So thank you very much.
Have a great rest of the day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Pfizer's third quarter 2019 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participation. You may now disconnect.