Y 2018 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
So, I think, we start on. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our Analyst and Investor
Conference. We are delighted that you could join us today and we hope you all had a pleasant
evening yesterday. Today, we will focus on 2018 as well as on our progress with strategy NUMBER
ONE NEXT Today's speeches will be a bit shot of any yesterday at the annual press conference.
Therefore we will have more time afterwards to the Q&A As always you can get a hard copy of
the annual report our yearbook and the sustainability Factbook at the entrance. Please also take a
look at our online version of the annual report.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management, Chairman of the Board of
Management, on my left side and I would like also to welcome `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Board Member for
finance. About today's agenda, we will start with Harald, he will speak about the progress with our
strategy NUMBER ONE NEXT then Nicolas will inform you about our financial performance in 2018
and the outlook for 2019. To conclude the outlook, Harald will present you our model offensive.
This will be followed by a Q&A.
Before we start, please note that this conference is subject to the disclaimer regarding forward-
looking statements, you will find this in the Investor presentation material referred to in this
conference, please also refer to the report on risk and opportunities, which you will find in our
most recent annual report. The BMW Group does not assume any obligations to update these
forward-looking statements or the information. Thank you very much.
Now, I would like to hand over to Harald. Please Harald.
`Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Thank you very much. Good morning and welcome. Today, I would like to show you, what sets the
BMW group apart from our competition. Let's take first a look at the recent past and then focus
on the future. The BMW Group is successfully shaping the future of mobility. We are doing so by
charting our own course. We are redeveloping our business model, it has to be profitable andour NOW services. We are strengthening our core business and our global presence, for example
in China and the US. We deliver, we turn words into action, our successful transition to the new
emissions standard WLTP is a good example for this.
In recent years we've evolved both from manufacturer to a mobility provider. Going forward, we
aim to be a leading tech company for premium mobility. For this reason, we are providing our
company a new and stronger foundation with regards to technology and our relationship with
customers and in our processes and structures and work environment. This is no easy task, but
we are a very strong team. We continue to make significant progress with our strategy, NUMBER
ONE NEXT We have been implementing measures for the past three years, our focus is until
2025. We have a clear vision of the future.
Our journey has three stages with milestones in 2018, 2021 and 2025. The first stage up to 2018
has already successfully been completed. We are now embarking on the second phase, which will
take us to the end of 2021. What are the challenges for our industry? The business environment
remains highly volatile. E-mobility will continue to grow. The development of highly automated
vehicles will continue to make advances. What is our approach to master these challenges. We
are investing in our range of electrified vehicles for all customer needs. We also will create
additional flexible platforms for all types of drivetrains. From 2020, the popular BMW X3 will be
our First Model that we will offer with all three drivetrains. The customer will continue to have
choices in the future, the broad approach allows us to respond flexibly. This is the most efficient
solution, a single platform for all.
We will keep our foot on the throttle with the new model releases. This year alone, we will launch
more than 20 new or updated models and we're electrifying all our brands and model series. By
the end of this year, we will have 500,000 electrified vehicles on the road. As anyone who's ever
driven an electric car will tell you, e-mobility is sheer driving pleasure in its purest form thanks to
the electric engine and battery. Together they form the heart of every electric vehicle. We
produce the electric drive and high voltage systems ourselves, this keeps essential e-mobility
expertise firmly in our own hands. Regarding battery cells, we will continue to build on our existing
expertise. This summer, we will open the new battery cell competence center in Munich, this also
includes infrastructure.
Our ChargeNow customers have already today access to more than 100,000 charging points in
25 countries. ChargeNow also demonstrates that cooperation between companies is increasingly
important. We always seek out the most suitable partners in different fields. In two important
areas of future activity we have embarked on a long-term cooperation with DAIMLER AG. To
provide more services in more cities we have created five joint ventures. More than 60 million
people already use the NOW services. Together, we will invest over EUR1 billion. The benefit for
customers is that everything comes from a single source and soon from a single app. And when it
comes to autonomous driving both companies already have extensive know how. Together we
are developing the next level technology for autonomous driving for our models from 2024 on.
As a global company more than ever we have to satisfy the different demands in different
regions. In line with our strategy we are targeting continued growth and all major regions of the
world and aim to expand our market share. To achieve this we have a specific focus for each
region. China is our largest single market and the strong driving force form e-mobility. Our
approach is as follows. The new plant in Shenyang, we'll increase our capacity to 650,000
vehicles per year. Our new joint venture with Great Wall, we will build fully electric MINI vehicles.
From 2020, we will produce the first fully electric BMW, the iX3, which will be exported from
China to the rest of the world. In the US, we continue to invest in the expansion of our
Spartanburg plant.This year, the plant celebrates its 25th anniversary. The new X7 signals our commitment to the US.
The US Department of Commerce has once again confirmed that BMW is the leading US
automotive exporter by value for the 5th consecutive year. Our new plant in Mexico, we will
expand our sphere of activity in the Americas, it will open in June. Europe is our largest sales
region and home to the most BMW group plants and employees. The political situation remains
tense, due to the uncertainty over Brexit, but we are well prepared for all scenarios. The same
principle applies to all regions.
Our commitment is geared towards the long-term. Free access to markets is essential for our
success. Ladies and gentlemen to become an agile tech company, we also need the right internal
organization. Efficient structures have always been part of the BMW Group. Two current examples
include our cross-divisional Performance NEXT program and our new sales and marketing
structure. We began implementing Performance NEXT some time ago. Our goal is to become
faster, more profitable and more efficient. We are concentrating on three areas customers and
sales, vehicle and organization and structures. Performance NEXT will permanently change the
whole company. We are targeting total savings potential of more than EUR12 billion by the end of
2022. Performance NEXT will have an impact well into the next decade.
Let's take a look at my second example. Our relationship with customers is vital to the success of
our business. Starting in April, we have one sales division for BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce
automotive brands. It will be known as the C division, this reflects our clear focus on the customer.
This division will be responsible for creating a consistent brand experience across all touch points.
And we believe a smaller Board of Management sends the right signal for streamlined structures
across the company. The third stage will take us all the way to 2025. Here the BMW approach is
quite different from that of other companies. Our next innovation and technology flagship, the
BMW iNEXT would take individual mobility to a whole new level. It will enable the entire company
and all our brands to face the challenges of the future. The concept car is here on stage with us.
The iNEXT combines several future technologies, full connectivity and a futuristic interior, an
electric range of up to 600 kilometers for every day driving for both short and long distances. It's
also signals the launch of Level 3 highly automated driving and at the same time we will also be
testing level 4 and level 5 autonomous-driving in urban areas with the fleet of iNEXT vehicles. This
opens up a whole new chapter for the BMW group.
Today more than 80% of accidents are caused by driver error. Autonomous driving can virtually
eliminate these accidents. Safety remains our top priority in this area, by the time we launched
our Level 3 system in 2021. We will have clocked up more than 214 million tests kilometers around
95% in simulations. Technologies from the iNEXT will be integrated into our entire model lineup
and BMW iNEXT will be released onto the market in 2021. Autonomous driving relies on
generating huge quantities of data, next week we will be opening a data center outside of
Munich. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we have a clear roadmap for the future. Later, I
will give you an update on upcoming product highlights.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much Harald, and now Nicolas. Please go ahead.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Max, thanks a lot for the introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, from me as well and
great to see you all today in Munich. The year 2018, once again demonstrated the financial and
performance strength of the BMW Group. Despite massive headwinds we reported the second
best result in our company's history. For the past 15 years, we have now been the world's leadingpremium car company. At 7.2% our EBIT margin in the automotive segment remains at a high
level, compared to competition and in line with our adjusted guidance for the full year.
Nevertheless, our performance in 2018 did not meet our usual high standards. The challenging
business environment left its mark on the entire automotive industry last year, to make the
company future proof we are investing billions in new products, e-mobility, autonomous driving
and the next strategic steps for mobility services. We see great potential here, rapid scalability
will be decisive. E-mobility is financially challenging, but we see no alternative. As a premium
manufacturer we clearly possess the best credentials to successfully implement it.
Let's take a look at our financial figures. Due to the additional business pressures I'll refer to our
sales growth is only partially reflected here. Group revenues we're on par with the previous year
at EUR97.48 billion. Adjusted for currency translation effects revenues increased by 1.2%. The EBIT
margin remained above our target figure of 10%. As previously announced group earnings before
tax showed a moderate decrease from the previous year at EUR9.82 billion. as expected various
factors had an impact here, mainly the development of currency and commodity prices and
higher expenses for research and development. Further impact on earnings came from the
challenging pricing situation especially in Europe due to the WLTP transition and the additional
burden of China's punitive tariffs on US imports.
As expected, our financial result decreased mainly due to valuation effects. However, the
earnings contribution of our Chinese joint venture, BBA, grows significantly to nearly EUR740
million. Net profit for 2018, stood at EUR7.2 billion. The first quarter of 2018 developed as
expected with revenues and pre-tax earnings at the same level as the previous year. EBIT margin
of 6.3% in the automotive segment was in line with our expectations.
Even under difficult conditions, our sights remain firmly fixed on the future. In line with our
strategy, we continue to invest at a high level. Capital expenditure primarily for property, plant
and equipment rose to EUR 5.03 billion. We strongly believe in the value of flexible plants. This is
an advantage during periods of volatility and significantly varying conditions between regions. The
CapEx ratio for 2018 was 5.2%. We expect the ratio for the current year to be slightly higher. As
previously announced our research and development expenditure reached a new all-time high of
EUR6.89 billion in 2018. The R&D ratio was at 7.1%. The ratio will be lower in 2019, but still above
6%. The ratio of capitalized development cost was at 43.3%. The large number of model
launches and new architectural models was reflected in higher capitalized development costs.
This year, we expect to see a substantial decrease in the capitalization ratio.
Despite challenging conditions, the BMW group posted solid results for the financial year 2018.
On behalf of the entire board of management, I would like to thank our shareholders and
investors, who have placed their trust in us over the past years. The Board of Management and
supervisory board will propose a dividend of EUR3.50 per share of common stock and EUR3.52
per share of preferred stock for 2018. This is the second highest dividend, we have ever paid
with a total payout of EUR2.3 billion. As a result, 32% of our net profit for the year will be paid out
to shareholders, in line with our targeted corridor of between 30% and 40%. As usual, our
dividend payout will be completely covered by free cash flow.
Now let's turn to the individual segments starting with the automotive segment. Dampened by
currency translation effect, segment revenues were on par with last year. Under these conditions
the EBIT margin of 7.2% reached a high level and exceeded our adjusted target of at least 7%. As
usual, earnings contribution from our China joint venture is not included in this figure. Moreover as
a matter of principle, we do not adjust our reported figures for one off effects. EBIT decreased to
EUR6.18 billion. As expected, we've experienced significant headwinds from currency andcommodity prices. The net balance of other operating income and expenses had a positive
impact in 2018. High upfront investments and increasing depreciations dampened earnings as
expected. Higher tariffs, the challenging pricing situation especially due to the WLTP transition in
Europe, as well as warranty and goodwill activities also had a negative impact.
Ladies and gentlemen, we responded early to the challenges in our environment and launched a
company program to boost performance back in 2017. Through Performance NEXT, we are
systematically addressing structural issues across the BMW group, optimizing processes and
improving efficiency. We have already made several important decisions. We are significantly
reducing the complexity of our portfolio at all levels. We are eliminating derivatives with low
demand as well as reducing our drivetrain portfolio and country variants by up to 50%. This will
allow us to offset rising manufacturing costs. We have shortened the development process by up
to a third. This will enable us to take advantage of opportunities in the market faster and allow us
to be more efficient. We are systematically optimizing structures and processes both at our
headquarters, plants and the local subsidiaries, as well as pooling resources across all functional
areas. With Performance NEXT, we are continuously changing structures and work methods to
become faster and more agile.
I would like to talk now about the segments free cash flow. Despite higher capital expenditure
and lower net profit, free cash flow in the automotive segment still totaled EUR2.71 billion. We are
aiming for a similar amount for 2019. Our financial independence gives us the freedom to shape
our own future, at the end of the year our liquidity totaled EUR16.3 billion. This offers us a solid
financial footing, it ensures we are able to take action even though parameters are constantly
changing. Let's move on to the financial services segment, which despite rising interest rates in a
number of key markets and fierce competition continue to grow its business in 2018. Pre-tax
earnings reflected the positive business development and reached EUR2.16 billion. Despite a
substantial increase in its equity base, the financial services segment achieved a return on equity
of 14.8% and exceeded our minimum requirement of at least 14%. Even with growing volatility
worldwide, the risk situations in the segment remained stable over the past financial year. The
Credit loss ratio fell in 2018 and is now at 0.25%. Market price risks for our leasing portfolio also
remain stable overall.
From today's perspective, we remain well prepared for any business risks we may encounter.
Let's move on to the motorcycle segment. With our eighth sales record in a row, we are on
course to reach our target of 200,000 units in 2020. The decrease in pretax segment earnings
was mainly due to model changeovers plus mix effects. The EBIT margin was 8.1% and once again
within our target range of 8% to 10%. We expect growth to continue in 2019.
Finally, let's look at intersegment eliminations. Intersegment eliminations contributed EUR553
million compared to negative EUR534 million in the previous year. As noted in previous quarters,
the main reasons for this development are lower elimination of inter segment profits for new
leasing contracts, due to lower EBIT in the automotive segment, and positive reversal effects
resulting from strong grows in the leasing portfolio in the previous years.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is known for its ability to handle challenging terrain. We
like challenges. Despite massive headwinds, we delivered healthy profitability in 2018. This shows
just how much operational capacity this company has. We expect to see a positive impetus from
our young product portfolio. However since a lot of the models are still in the launch and the
ramp up phase, earnings will not benefit from the full effect in 2019. Due to the model
changeovers and the usual build-up of inventories, we expect the first half and especially Q1 to
be weaker overall. We will continue to make substantial investments in new technologies and
future topics in 2019. The European Union's extremely ambitious CO2 legislation also requireshigher additional expenses and will lead to higher manufacturing costs, which will impact earnings.
At the same time, we again expect to face significant currency and commodity headwinds in the
mid-to-high three-digit million euro range. Further development in tariffs is another major
uncertainty. Our guidance assumes there will be no increase in tariffs between the US and the
European Union. The preparations necessary for the UK's withdrawal from the EU will be an
additional burden in 2019. Nevertheless, we continue to expect that there will be an orderly Brexit.
The competitive environment may also get tougher over the course of the second stage of the
WLTP transition.
In the automotive segment expects deliveries to be slightly higher year-on-year. A range of 8% to
10% for our EBIT margin is our clear target in the stable business environment, but there are
parameters over which we have only limited influence. Due to the negative impact of the factors I
mentioned, we expect an EBIT margin between 6% and 8% in 2019.
The high level of volatility makes it difficult to provide a clear forecast, however, we will continue
to use all internal levers in working back towards our strategic profitability target. In the
motorcycle segment, strengthened by our renewed model lineup, we are planning for a solid
increase in deliveries with an EBIT margin within our target range of 8% to 10%.
In the financial services segment, we expect return on equity to be on par with last year and
above our target figure of 14%. Let's take a look at the Group figures. In addition, to the
headwinds I refer to, the absence of a number of positive valuation effects from 2018 will lead to
a significant decrease in the financial results this year. As a result, Group earnings before tax I
expected to be significantly lower than the previous year. For 2019, we will not increase the
overall size of the workforce. The total number of employees will remain around the same level
as in 2018. If conditions deteriorate further, effects on our guidance cannot be ruled out.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have already made a number of clear decisions as part of our
program Performance NEXT We will continue systemically implementing the measures needed
for growth, further increase performance and efficiency. Thanks, to our operational and financial
strength. We are capable of steering this company successfully to the industry's transformation.
Creating sustainable value for our shareholders remains our goal, not only today but in the future.
Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Nicolas and now again Harald with a brief outlook on our model offensive.
`Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group has been number one in premium segment sales for the
past 15 years. Despite the uncertainties, we are facing across the globe. We aim to continue the
successful development. Our goal is to outperform the premium segment, one example, our
February sales in China, we outperformed the competition. To achieve this, we will continue our
model offensive driving full speed ahead.
2019 will be our year of the Plug-in Hybrid. BMW will release the 3 Series, X5 and 7 Series all as
Plug-in Hybrids. The X3 will also be available for the first time as a Plug-in Hybrid. All these models
come with the fourth generation of our battery and electric drivetrain technology. This enables an
electric range of up to 80 kilometers. The 2 series and 5 series models will also get a battery
update in the summer.BMW and MINI will also release fully electric models. The emotional MINI Electric will be launched
this year, and the response from the first journalist is very positive. This will be followed by the
2020, while the iX3, 2021 we will be then in the year of the BMW i4 and the iNEXT By the end of
2020, we will have launched more than 10 new or updated models with electrified drivetrains. For
me this is a clear statement. We will not only boost sales of electrified vehicles. We also aim to
increase sales and revenues significantly in the upper segments in particular. The new X5 is now
fully available for the whole year. The new 7 series will be released onto the market later this
month. The new X7 will follow mid-year, and the 8 Series Coupe will be joined by the convertible
and then the fabulous Gran Coupe as well as the corresponding M models.
In the midsize segment, our top selling model the new BMW 3 Series has been in showrooms
early March. The new 3 Series has been well received by customers particularly due to the
extensive connectivity features. We also have attractive new models in the compact class. The
New BMW 1 Series will be available by the end of this year. I would also like to announce a
completely new model today, the BMW 2 Series Gran Coupe. It will celebrate its world premiere
in November at the LA auto show and it's scheduled for release in early '20. And as you can see
we are in attack mode.
Customers with all their wishes and mobility needs remain our clear focus. Ladies and gentlemen,
the BMW Group remains today among the most profitable automotive companies in the world.
For our shareholders, we aim to continue to be a reliable and profitable investment moving
forward. And we have a clear objective for the future, to remain a leader in everything we do.
Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
So, thank you very much, Harald. Thank you very much, Nicolas. And now we start with our Q&A
session. And the first question comes from (inaudible).
Questions And Answers
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
(Question And Answer)
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much, Max, I'm glad to hear on time, I have two questions please one for Nicolas
Peter please and one for `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management. The first one on the medium-term or longer-term
financial outlook really. You've now left the 8% to 10% margin corridor similar to your peers. Is it
reasonable for us to assume that the first year you will be back on track, will most likely be 2022?
The way we look at the world, I mean you see it now, we just discussed it before the meeting
markets are slowing down, I would say most cycles are slowing down. CO2 is kicking in. So you're
forced to sell less profitable cars in Europe at least. So, when I add all the headwinds together
and if I have a bridge in my head, I would say there's no chance you can get back to 8% to 10%
until 2022, when the full savings are really kicking in.
And the second month for `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management please. It's very interesting that collaboration on the
more legacy or traditional parts of the auto business between BMW and Mercedes seem to be
starting, there's at least a lot of talk in the press. Are there any red lines, any areas where you
would say, we would categorically rule that out? Could you imagine sharing platforms? Could you
imagine producing engines together, especially for the more compact vehicles in the future? We
know that, Mercedes is quite unhappy with their partner of Renault Nissan. So could that be anarea of much broader industrial cooperation between the two companies. Which I think personally
is needed.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much (inaudible). We start, Harald.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yes. First of all, I think, I would like to start that Mercedes Benz and BMW will still remain
competitors, which is good for the industry. Because we are driving the products forward they're
driving us, we're challenging us. But I think we started with two good corporations which I believe
is the right foundation as the beginning. The one is the mobility services, because the mobility
services is a scalable business, is something where we need to grow and I think with our mobility
solutions, our NOW services we can make a difference in Europe, definitely. with all the five
verticals, there's a good chance and we are now in the first phase of it and we are now planning
on, what business model might be the right for the future, how can we continue the growth and
things like that.
The second one is on autonomous driving for the generation 2. And autonomous driving as you
know is an inexpensive stuff. It is something where we would like to develop a standard. We're
also having a corporation and for the generation 2, and I think we can combine our know-how and
expertise for generation 2 Daimler[ph] brands. But, where do we make a difference, where I
wouldn't share anything, everything which is clear must be brand authentic, you must protect the
brand. BMW needs to drive like a BMW or MINI, like a MINI, so everything which includes that you
are risking any brand authenticity [ph], that is definitely never ever something we would do.
And finally, I mean we have started with two corporations, I believe in these two things with
Daimler that we can definitely make a difference together. But first of all, we need to prove it
together, so we are on the starting phase of that.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
And before coming to your question, may be one additional comment to what Harald said from
an more finance perspective. Regarding the two corporations, we have set up with or we are
setting up with Daimler. We increased the likelihood to set standards and this has a positive effect
also on costs related to and just to give you an idea, today we've announce that we are planning
to join forces for autonomous driving. We already got many, many, many phone calls from
suppliers asking, well can we join this corporation, which is a strong indicator that if two strong
companies join in forces in an area which eventually will become a commodity, makes a lot of
sense.
Now coming to your question regarding EBIT margin. The clear strategic target is 8% to 10%, but
just to remind us in which environment we are operating today, and I think we have to
differentiate between what I would call external factors on one hand side and transition related
topics of our industry on the other hand side. Still we have great dispute going on between US.,
China and not fixed yet. We have Brexit, we have a progressively more strict regulatory
requirements in many parts of the world. We've mentioned raw material and foreign exchange
and we've been one of the few manufacturers prepared for WLTP transitions, there's another
step of the WLTP transition in 2019. I hope the others are ready, because this definitely -- we will
be ready, but this impacted in a negative way at our market.And the second element is the transition of our industry, the transformation of our industry and
we will continue, as I've said to invest in electrification of our portfolio to have by 25 electrified
cars on the road, we will continue to invest together with Daimler in mobility services, and we will
develop and launch our autonomous driving systems. So this is impacting our industry. So, I would
not say well this will happen in this (inaudible), that here we have a clear strategic target, but we
have headwinds which put us in a situation where today, we say well in 2019, it is between 6% and
8%.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And (inaudible) on it one more one more thing on the engine side. We are open and we did that
already that we are selling engines to others. And I think secondly, the technology war[ph] we are
in will bring come to this conclusion and situations are not everyone will make everything possible.
So there's an opportunity for the BMW group also to sell things to other companies in the future
and in case and sharing the knowledge burden on software stacks as well. So if you are a
technology leader like us there's opportunities to sell things.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Okay. The next questions are coming from `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank and then Michael (inaudible).
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you very much Max. `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. I have two questions please the
first one is on we live in a very uncertain world right there's Brexit, WLTP, Trump whatever. So
scenario planning is absolutely key. I can therefore understand, why you want to be as flexible as
possible? And that seems very intuitive however I think at least in China and also in Europe with
the 2030 CO2 emissions, they are basically takings the flexible to out of our hand, they tell you,
you've to sell Fully Electric cars to a sizable degree even if you may not want to because as onset
they are probably less profitable at least for now. Why is flexibility really still the right answer, in
that scenario, why can you not at least focus in your two major regions on a certain drivetrain
technology and when you think about the corporation like with Daimler, would you trust your
partner enough to really let them do one thing and you do something very different or with still
be something jointly.
Secondly, when we think about the product momentum, at least to the capital markets I think it's
fair to say that BMW has been a product offensive story for now probably 2 years. And we did
indeed expect that probably in 2019 the earnings would benefit from this. (inaudible)was that a
misinterpretation by the capital markets that we all underestimated the incremental costs that
you have to carry over the next two years or will maybe 2020 be the year where you actually see
the earnings benefiting from this. Thank you.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First question was on the flexibility of the platform and the drive trends is first understood. Why
do we believe this is the right approach. Because, if you look at customer behavior, you'll find
certain things in European for example, mobility behavior. People are still love driving long
distances, and we'll have a situation where the infrastructure is not everywhere perfect. The city
like Amsterdam for example has a great infrastructure for E-Mobility. If you drive across country in
France for example, it's completely different, that's why for example, the plug-in hybrid can be a
solution for those customers.Same story in the United States, you will have big cities like Boston or Los Angeles, where we'll
offer pure electric vehicles like the i4, like the MINI Electric where there will be a majority of
customers having and maybe a pure electric drivetrain, but even in the United States take the 5
Series, one-third to 40% of our 5 Series sales in California is our current 5 series hybrid model,
plug-in hybrid. So, we can see that and in Belgium it was 50% of the X5 sales. So, if you drive long
distances with European mobility behavior going near from near to the nicest country of Italy for
example, you may be arrived at the city of Siena or whatever pure electric, but you have to drive
a long distance energy wise and that's why we believe plug-in hybrid is part of the solution and
same story in the United States, because the country is very different. So, our flexibility approach
gives us the right thing for the right time. But if the customer would like to have a pure electric
vehicle he or she can have it. The i4 and we will have other models to come where it's pure
electric drivetrain, but if you think about the country like Russia, how many electric vehicle will I sell
in 2023. I don't know, the answer is flexibility. And the main point, why we will leave first in the
flexibility approaches is that infrastructure is not developing as fast as it should, and infrastructure
is different across the Europe, is different across the countries and the cities, even within one
country it's different.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
So, that would then bring us to situation where you say, you still have to do everything at once
and therefore you do with the partnerships. What you trust your partners enough to really say, we
do one thing and they do something different or does it always have to be this we want to keep
the knowledge in house as well, and we want to share everything and do everything jointly.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Take one example, we definitely have a lot of competence for battery cell production, for battery
cell development that is something, for example for the future which we definitely will keep in
house as a red line because I mean, that is a critical to future cost, to future product profitability,
things like this one I would not share. Yeah, because that is the most critical, our autonomous
driving, you would keep the IP, but maybe you can seeing about somebody your partner, where
you would sell the IP or have a fee for it. But all critical product and technology issues, you would
keep in the company.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Tim, you're absolutely right. We have a very strong product momentum, take full availability of X3
now in all markets, including China for the first time in 2019, X5 full year availability. We are
launching the X7 a great feedback from press and media and first customers 8 series to be
followed extremely important as well as renewal of the 3 series, which is one of the cornerstones
of our portfolio. So yeah, strong product momentum and this strong product momentum by the
way helped us to post compared to the rest of automotive segment.
Yeah, good results in 2018 and as I said we believe, we will be again definitely in the top group in
2019, having said this and I don't think the capital markets underestimated something lot of
additional events kicked in, take the reduction of 37.5% CO2 reduction which was decided a
couple of months ago or take the trade dispute between China and US is a punitive tariffs not in
our plans and probably not in your calculations neither. So we have -- or the WLTP event. So, this is
I think, what came unexpected but we have to face it and this is exactly why we have with already
started back in 2017 a couple of months after I took the role, our Performance NEXT program and
we have decided to significantly increase this program because those additional elements kickedin some that's how I would put the different events, which are impacting the industry in a couple
of sentences.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And to add to this three examples. The one is if you look at the US markets we were growing last
year. Some competitors were negative. It was only one other big company or one company with
the electric vehicle, which was growing as well. So, if the Market is under pressure but winning
market share this is a positive signal, if I look into the face of my responsible manager for China
they are smiling about the X5.
If I talk with the dealers in the US They are smiling about the new X5. So X7 will be but we've
gained market share also in Europe, but in a very tough situation with WLTP and whatever so the
momentum is also driven, the momentum is coming. But the momentum is also (inaudible) for
sure by all the uncertainty in the market but if you see it in a relative performance to the
competition you can see it, we haven't been in China number one in absolute sales for many-
many months, and February was the case. And the X3 and the new one locally is now available.
So, we have both sides of the momentum, the product momentum and the market situation
which is under pressure.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. Next Michael (inaudible) and then Adam Hayer. Yes.
Q - Analyst
Yeah. Right over here, I'm Mike Rob, Capital (inaudible). One question for each of you. First of all,
as for the new facility of yours in Mexico, could you just give us a rough feeling for when you
expect this the facility to reach full utilization levels, is it going to be three, four quarters. And then
secondly, as concerns the 12 billion savings program for the next couple of years, could you just
briefly run me through the genesis of this one please. Has it been sort of a bottom-up approach
in the sense that at some stage realized okay if we continue in the same fashion and few years
down the road our margin is going to be significantly short of the target corridor and hence we
have to save XYZ building to get back into it comfortably, or was it a top-down approach that you
simply decided to account for additional eventualities. There is probably additional savings
potentially, we identified sources and then came up with 12 billion, what was -- which way did it
work?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Okay. Thank you. We start with Harald and then Nicolas.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Mexico first of all, we will start the production in June this year. June will be also having the official
opening of the factory, so you will have a ramp up in the second half of 2019 and then it will take
another year probably likely until you had full production step-by-step with the volumes and
markets because that's also a very fast ramp up in which we plan for, but step-by-step also the
supplier network has to develop, so we start off production in June 2019 and then it will take time.
Yeah, but it's a great operation and where we will have a new sustainable concept as there well
for reducing water consumption, reducing other things, so there's also a new approach of
sustainability, we included in that plan. And things are quite positive. I'm looking forward to the
opening.Q - Analyst
Thanks.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
So EUR12 billion till 2022 and it's always a combination of top-down and bottom-up, but maybe to
give you some more details regarding this program. This program consists of more than 10
different initiatives and they focus on our core business on our value chain in the automotive -- in
the automotive segment. So of course on sales, on the reduction and optimization of production
and material costs, the indirect procurement sector, which is in our company little bit more than
EUR20 billion per year. And you can imagine that in those areas that might be potentials for some
savings as well, we are -- this is one of the -- from my perspective, of the top issues. We have to
even be more challenging within our organization, that's reduction of complexity. We've already
achieved some major improvements. But if I compare some of the new entrants in our industry,
just look at the website, they have and the way they offer the product, and the complexity of our
product, comparing product and the complexity of our peers. I think, there is some room in
between. Cooperations in the areas, Harald described play an important role as well. We are
addressing HR topics and the reduction of the development process to give you a more precise
idea. For example, next generation we've mentioned a couple of times in our different meetings
and we are going to reduce by one-third the development time of a new model. So, the new 5
series will be one of the first, we will entirely at fit to -- stick to this target minus 13% on the Sedan
and approximately minus 25% on the Tourer.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. Next one is Patrick and then Adam Hard. Patrick, please start.
Q - Analyst
Thank you. Good morning. Two questions please, the first one regarding the cost of CO2
compliance in Europe, can you help us understand to which degree the EBIT guidance for 2019
already includes what you need to deliver in 2020 and 2021 in terms of CO2 reduction or how
much of an additional EBIT burden that would bring in the years 2020 and 2021, or in another
words if we're thinking about the EBIT bridge starting with the result of 2018, how much in total
EBIT terms would be the headwind in the bridge between '18 and 2021 coming from CO2
compliance in Europe. And secondly related to that, if you can help us a little bit in terms of your
technology choices, clearly you're saying PHEV will play a very important role for you also in the
years ahead. Last week at the Volkswagen Capital Markets say, they have shown an interesting
slide looking at the different power train types and the profitability behind, including the cost of
CO2 compliance and for VW, the BEV was scoring the best with the lowest cost of CO2
compliance and then basically where the probability that's including CO2 costs not at all bad
compared to a nice car. I'm just interested, what do you say that for you, a plug-in hybrids
including the CO2 benefit is still the better choice, purely financially speaking than a BEV Where's
that breakeven point, when will you be there. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
So Harald, we start with Harald.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of ManagementOkay Patrick, we start with the CO2. First of all, you should know that we are on CO2 average
emission in the EU fleet better than the competition. If you look into our annual report and from
some other companies, there is a deviation, which is already significant by today. So, we are
already buy today better, because we have more electrified vehicles in the fleet than the others,
say on the 140,000 vehicles last year on the road and we are number one in selling electrified
vehicles Plug-in Hybrid and Battery Electric Vehicles in Europe. Number one ahead of even bigger
companies. That's why we are and you can see the benefit from that one.
Secondly, on the technology side, both the PHEV and the BEV have an, clearly an impact on the
significant reduction of the CO2. Because if it's 60 miles or 60 kilometers electric range with a
plug-in hybrid is nearly the same from the experience like a battery electric vehicle, but it
depends on also on the volume of the platform. So, how competitive can you make the car with
the overall costs, because for our Pure Electric vehicle, you need a certain size, in terms of
volume for the platform that is worthwhile. And as Europe is not one situation, both will benefit
and both will contribute. But the question was how do we move forward. We move forward with
definitely -- there's a Mini Electric coming, for example Pure Electric to help us on the CO2, the
CIX3 coming, the i4, so with the Pure Electric vehicle and the Plug-in Hybrids and the Plug-in
Hybrids are setting of by today in the next years as well. So both technology will contribute as well
as you still have good cars with petrol engines and diesel engines. So for 2021, you will have all
three or four technologies contributing, otherwise you don't make it. Pure Electric only will not
make it easier. Because diesel for example is definitely a huge contribution for the CO2 reduction
in Europe in 2021, still was lower numbers.
Q - Analyst
And from a purely financial standpoint, would the BEV or the PHEV for you be the preferred
option to meet your targets, purely looking at contribution margins.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Patrick I'm coming I'm coming to this topic maybe just to remind us. The penalty if we let's take
you up to if we do not meet a CO2 targets in the next decade is EUR95 per car program. So it's
significant. And if we look at 2019, we already have a burden in the high three digit million euro
amount related to our plans to achieve the CO2 target.
So, if you compare an old three series to the new model on one hand side. We have reduced
production manufacturing costs in many, many areas. But there is an overall increase, a slight like
increase, why? Because we have to integrate technology, which is going to help us to meet the
CO2 target. So it's already -- we have already high three-digit million euro amount in 2019.
And this is why we are investing so much on further developing our battery and cell competence.
The share of electrified cars will definitely grow we've been the leader in as Harald has already
mentioned we've been the leader in Europe we are opening a new battery center, in a couple of
weeks from now here nearby Munich. And the aim is very simple to reduce the costs. And this is
what we believe is possible in the next 5 to 10 years difficult to forecast precisely by 50%
between generation three which is in our cars today and generation five, which will be on the
market in '21. The last point it's extremely difficult to answer precisely, why? Because there are so
many variants in this calculation, which depend not on what we are doing, but what the regulator
is doing. This regulator what we believe is absolutely key not only for the industry but for mobility
in particular in Europe and in the US., that we have the right balance between full electric cars on
the other hand side, and plug-in hybrid on the other hand side. Because we do not assume that
across the world there will be enough willingness to invest in infrastructure in any part of -- in allparts of the world. So this is why we believe this flexibility between 48 Volts plug-in hybrids and
full electric cars is so important, there's not one solution for the world.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And Patrick to add and reiterate in this 30% to 50%, first step 30% and 50% reduction from the
third to the fifth generation, which we will have with the iNEXT, it's huge. And this is coming from,
because we have such a depth in-house competence in cell production, and cell development
and all this what I mentioned in my speech. This is the critical and (inaudible), this is the critical
know how. You need to have the critical know how on these things, sourcing the chemicals and
the recycling of these things, because that is critical to the cost of the future drive trends and
your future competitiveness. Independently, if you have a pure electric vehicle or a plug-in hybrid
or whatever it. that knowhow and this manufacturing knowledge is absolutely critical from the
whole process, from the beginning of the development until the recycling. That's why we are
spending so much money and that's why we opening up the battery cells competence center for
that, because that will definitely be the lever in the game who's winning the game.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
So Adam, it's your choice and then (inaudible) Adam?
Q - Analyst
Thank you, Adam Holman. First, three questions and firstly, you haven't given any firm guidance
on Group EBIT, will it be significantly down or not and maybe you can help us a little bit as to what
the scale of those one-off items the one-off positives in a sense were in between EBIT MPDT
300 million 400 million just give us some feel for that and then secondly on your free cash flow
comments, I think you're saying you're aiming for the same level 2.7 billion is that sort of the
upper end of your hopes, that's the sort of the upper end of your target. And maybe within that,
have you paid the cash element of all those warranties, the 800 million I think you took. And then
finally, on suppliers, clearly the suppliers are really struggling and there's been a dramatic change
in the last 12 months, 18 months in their profitability and in terms even more so in terms of cash
flow. Are you now able to squeeze them as much as you used to, or is there a bit of a change in
that situation you can always get less complex but just help us is that dynamic really changing as
you talk to them now. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. I think, the right question for the CFO
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Let's start with the with the suppliers, we have a very -- we have developed a very systematic
approach to address in the actual situation. The reduction of manufacturing costs together with
our suppliers, we have invited with a clear message to the suppliers, the most important
suppliers for workshops. And during those workshops, we will together develop ideas, measures
in order to improve together our overall all business case. We have and we will off-course not
only address our top suppliers we have program which is covering all suppliers but was a different
methodology. Free cash flow along[ph] will be a burden in 2019 as well not -- definitely not to the
magnitude we've experienced in 2018.
This was approximately 800 million subpart of the 800 million will reverse. I would guess at this
point in time probably 50%. And EBIT outlook for 2018, we are anticipating as I said a significantreduction of our EBIT on group level, and this is mainly related to the facts I've described
meaning one time effects, which were positive in 2018, not occurring again in 2019. Just to give
one example, we had in 2018 a positive effect of our drive now acquisition of approximately to
EUR209 million or EUR210 million. This is something which will not occur again in 2019.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you Nicolas. The next is `Angus Tweedie, Citi and then `Dorothee Cresswell, Barclays. Angus.
Q - `Angus Tweedie, Citi `
Thanks. First we go on tariffs. just for bit sort of update on thinking on those. I mean in terms of
US., China. It looks like there's a bit of a pause on that perhaps through till June. Could you give
us an idea within new guns[ph], what you're thinking there and on Brexit, I think you said before
you were probably assuming a deal, I guess around the 29th of March. How are you think about
that if there is a delay and then secondly on EVs probably asking the question the other way. Next
year, what sort of penetration in Europe you targeting in terms of Plug-in Hybrids and promote
your selling. And then thirdly, could you just discuss a bit more how you're shortening the
production cycle on new products, you'll view 30% reduction in the time-to-market for new
products? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
I think we start with the Brexit discussion. I request the CEO.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yes. I haven't expected this question really on the Brexit. As on the Brexit is quite clear, the
companies in preparation since two years, for all type of scenarios, we will have the shutdown
and in our Oxford plant in April and we will keep it, because in production you have to steer
clearly, you have to have a plant shutdown and then you can ramp up afterwards. We also have a
small shutdown in Goodwood for the Rolls-Royce brand. We'll see what the outcome will be and
what the European consultation will give us as an output but we are prepared for every scenario
for the chaotic, for orderly Brexit whatever will come. We can adjust and have already adjusted
our supply chains and you have a little bit more stock that we have prepared and adjusted for
logistics capacity in case there's something parts to be flown or whatever. So we are well
prepared and we can adjust these planning to different weeks or months if it's to come, but we
will have to shut down in Oxford in April. So, we are prepared and that's the advantage of the
BMW Group, we are very flexible. So in production, we can react again we will see what the
outcome is on Brexit, but IT systems are prepared for Brexit, logistics is prepared, parts planning
is prepared, shutdowns are planned, so there's a huge amount of work done and spent already
last year on the preparation for these things. So, that is possible and we are well prepared for
really what comes over If you ask me, what will be the outcome? I don't know. And then the tariffs
discussion with the US., China. Secondly, we have one advantage again that we have on the one
side the biggest plant in the South Carolina, so we can -- if there's anything coming or whatever,
we can adjust more production for the US. market and we are now in the situation that the X3 is
manufactured in three locations in South Africa, in China and the US. So, we are not exporting the
X3 from the US to China. It's a local product very successful, start off production was in June last
year. And that gives us enough flexibility again also for the future, because many of the products
are localized in China already. So, that's a protection there and again tariffs are not good for the
business, I mean I am in clear favor of free trade because that has created wealth everywhere.And maybe to put some numbers behind US., China in 2018 had a negative impact of
approximately 270 million only related directly to tariffs. However, I think one has to take into
account that this has also an impact on market behavior. All those great challenges in the world is
not increasing consumer confidence. We assume for 2019 in our guidance that we stick to the
15% between US and China, and we have made in our 2019 guidance for Brexit, and what I would
call a reserve of approximately in the low to mid three digit million euro area, in order to cover
eventual burden related to complicated Brexit.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And China for example we will localize these two in China this year. So there's another product
for example, which is coming from Europe, which is now than localized in China as the seventh
model. So, that's the protection for trade issues as well.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Plug-in Hybrids, was another question you've asked. We have the situation that we are in a ramp
up with two of our products which have highest demand on the Plug-in Hybrid side and as the 3
series Plug-in Hybrid will be launched in the second half of this year and the X5 Plug-in Hybrid at
the end of the year. So, this will impact our sales -- our growth potential in 2019, we will grow
overall with electrified cars, but we definitely have more potential, and we expect more in 2020,
having said this what is extremely important, this new generation of Plug-in Hybrids have a range
and Electric range of between 70 and 80 kilometers, which is substantial more compared to the
previous generation and we've made some research with fraunhofer institute a very well-known
research institute in well not only in Germany, but in the world and with this type of Electric range
those cars will drive as much Electric in the city situations as a full Electric as a full as a Full Electric
car. And last topic you've raised was well what about the minus 30% in the development process,
those minus 30% will help us to reduce costs. So, this is the idea is not to shorten the life cycle of
the product, but the idea is to be able to reduce costs when developing and a new product to
give you one idea as the way we manage data today, data management gives us the opportunity
to reduce in a significant way, the number more than 2500 prototypes we will not need in our
engineering research and engineering process.
Thank you very much. Now we are coming to our first lady, `Dorothee Cresswell, Barclays and then Horst
Schneider, Dorothee.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Barclays `
Yeah. Thank you for taking my question. The first question is again around that 12 billion cost
cutting target and could you just give us a little bit more granularity in terms of the timing, how
quickly do we begin to see that as a tailwind comes through and then is it a linear development
or is it something that accelerate very strongly as we had to 2022, and then my other question is
around tariffs again, you've touched on it briefly in the US. I'm sure you have plans in place, if it
does happen in terms of how you adjust your production footprint or your sales strategy or your
supplier sourcing strategy. Could you give us an idea of how you then roll out those plans and
how quickly you can deal with that challenge if it arises. Thank you.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
I start with the US European situation, I mean first of all, I think, we are in a better situation than
many other companies, because we have such a big plant in South Carolina. We are looking in the
future sourcing plans of mainly sourcing more locally in the United States, one opportunity and
one option we are currently investigating is the transmissions, do we in the future, sourcetransmission in the United States, which would be of value for the companies. So, with our plans,
we were looking for more sourcing in the United States which would make us even more
independent, but on the other side we could allocate more production to the United States with
the X3 now having three manufacturing locations, in the past, we had Spartanberg only in the US
supply for the X3 was limited due to the high demand in China, or the high demand in Europe.
Now, we are delivering X3s from South Africa to Europe, we have X3 in China for China and we
can allocate more X3 production for the United States, so that gives us the flexibility in case they
are tariffs to react in that way, with that flexibility. And finally, you would also look at that it's clear
that the business model is based on definitely free trade and this is something we fight for but
with our flexible production supplier network, we can balance as much as possible in that
framework, yeah but local sourcing -- improving local sourcing in the United States is one option,
and the other one we are localizing more in China for example, like the X2 will be no longer
localized in China and no longer exported from Europe. But BMW overall is in a better situation
than many other companies, which have no plant at all for sometimes in the United States, and
then you will be hit by the tariffs completely. And luckily, we have all the SUV products, which we
plan strategically in United States are located. So, the new X7 and the X6, the new X5, the X4, so
if you look at the US Market 70% already is now is for the Utility Vehicles. The majority of the
products we anyway produce and manufacture in the United States which the demands -- the
market requires.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
I don't see, we have both of course, we have initiatives which are delivering an immediate impact
and I'll give some examples and we have initiative, which will ramp up over time. So, just take one
example, indirect procurement area has -- immediately impact, you negotiate a new contract with
your supplier and you have a different cost level or part of the initiatives and the actions we are
taking to reduce our production and material cost, not all, part of it will be already have an impact
in 2019 corporations. So, on -- in the mobility services area, we have now as the joint venture with
Daimler, so this has an immediate impact. Others definitely take more time if you look just to give
you a few ideas in which areas are and on which topics we are focusing and brought offer of
different paint colors is something you might say well easy but it's extremely expensive, it's
extremely expensive in our plans. So, we are planning to reduce by a little more than 40% the
numbers of colors we are offering. So, this only makes sense in the next phase, why because we
have invested in today's structure. This is something which will kick in step-by-step or if you take
our drivetrain variance, yeah, more than 90%, more than 90% of our sales are generated with
50% of drivetrain variants. So, there is and of course, you have -- despite the fact on some
drivetrain variance we have a very low number, you will keep it why, because it's important to
have an (inaudible) in every single market and this is a variant, but of course there are many areas
which you can optimize in being extremely precise, in eliminating those which are not generating
additional value and this is something again which is happening over time, why, because now we
have developed all those drivetrain variants once they are developed. Let's sell them, but for the
next generation, significant reduction.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you, Nicolas. Next is `Horst Schneider, HSBC and then Jose Azumendi[ph].
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC `
Yeah. Thanks for taking my question. I've got a few questions first of all, on your statement
regarding weak Q1, could you be a little more precise what you understand on weak Q1, is it more
EBIT margin in automotive towards the lower end of your target range for 2019 and then what isthe seasonal pass, I mean the pass going forward then, it gets gradually better quarter-to-
quarter, so that H2 is stronger than H1. Then the second question that I have relates on pricing
you have been the most vocal about negative pricing in the WLTP context, how has that
developed, so pricing still week how you see the trend by region. And then the last one that I
have is on employment we talked about that already in the break Mr.Krieger. I'm surprised that
you are the only German carmaker not saying, you have to reduce workforce. So, I just want to
understand why not, can't you do that or also can you roll that out for the next few years that you
have to reduce workforce actually. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Who wants to start, Nicolas? Yes, okay.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
So to start with Q1 on regarding Q1 we have some issues we definitely planned for, and we are
ramping up the 3 Series as I said important model so it's not a logic that due to the fact that we
are in phase out and ramp up of three series. Q1 is a bit weaker than the other quarters. But if you
reflect on what's going on in the various markets around the world and you look behind a global
number, if you look at our global number, we are performing against our peers very well very well.
However, in the first two months the whole sector is in negative to date and so we anticipate that
we will gain again, because we have the great product portfolio, we will gain segment, segment
share, but the start in most of the States reaching excluding China, that's really the big exception
is more complicated I think than anyone anticipated and this has to do with market behavior. So,
this is -- we are gaining segment share, we have a strong product portfolio but we will not over
push in such an market environment, because this doesn't make any sense from medium and
long-term perspective and neither from profitability, because we still feel that some of our
competitors have challenges related to WLTP from September. So, this is why we are careful on
the Q1 development, it's by the fact that we are optimistic that will gain segment share and on
top you have the usual buildup of inventory, you have always in Q1.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC `
But it doesn't mean that margin is at the low end of the range that you don't want to make this
statement right.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
No. But as we are not guiding EBIT-margin to our quarter-by-quarter. But we anticipate based on
what I've just said that of course, in particular due to our model lineup three series kicking in three
series being launched in China later. The X7 very really extremely good feedback from and other
bank from customers not only US Customers but really around as it was so this was definitely a
product many, many of our customers were expecting from BMW so there will be a positive from
our today's perspective there will be a positive momentum in 2019.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
On the HR side, I will start at the top now we are streamlining the board to seven board
members, as I mentioned we will have one sales division, customer (inaudible) starting on April 1st
for Brands the main reason is the effectiveness and the digital channels but we will definitely also
look into synergies and the efficiencies for the new organization just as one example how we
explore and reduce headcount and secondly we mentioned and yesterday we have natural levers
and we have also some quite strong people that were going on retirement, because due to theage profile, and this gives us head room up to 4,000 people will leave as natural leaders and the
retirements. And if you look at this one, if we if we recruit people in Mexico we might not replace
a person in Germany. Also we are looking, if we recruit people in Mexico for the new plant this job
cut may be coming from a drop card in Germany. That's the way we do it, and secondly I mean
we always look at head count every year quite tough that we're not moving too fast and too
much forward because that's an ongoing job, it's not a one-off job.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
And now Jose Azumendi and then Daniel Schwartz. Jose please.
Q - Analyst
Thank you Jose just two items, first one from Nicolas. I'm trying to focus on the positives and try
to understand your logic on the 6% to 8% margin guidance. So what are the positive drivers,
where has not to happen in order to go from the 6% to the 8%. Can you confirm that you have
reversed 50% of the provision for quality or the hit to quality last year, across both ends of the of
the range between the 6 and the (inaudible) so the positive drivers and true that you have
factored in the same reversal of the provision within the 6 and the 8.
And then for Harald, so it looks to me like this you're creating a sense of urgency within the group
that the companies to react you need to cut the cost base you need to get the company back to
these 8% to 10% margin range. You mentioned a few actions like derivatives simply take the
powertrains and the (inaudible) development processes. So within those three categories, which
one has the do you think as the biggest impact, financially? You mentioned a lot, you have given
us a lot of examples there I think those three are probably the biggest which will do you think of
those three has the biggest financial impact. And then I wonder like you are hitting 6% margin as
now, why you are not making a call to freeze Capex. Why are you not being more cautious with
CapEx expenditure or on absolute level lower net percentage to the sales. Thank you.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
So, off course maybe to start with the positive drivers I've already mentioned, a couple of the
positive drivers, definitely product momentum. We are despite the fact that we are discussing
since one our model[ph] challenges in our industry and our environment, we are planning to grow.
We are planning to grow in every major sales region. There's probably more growth potential in
China but the plan is to grow in Europe, the plan is to grow in the US., so we are on a growth path
to number one. Number two the definitely the quality of our products is so mix is something
which is positive why X7 of course you can imagine is delivering across the world above average
margins, a brand new X5 here as well, strong customer demand, X3 doing extremely well so the
whole X model portfolio is doing very well. We are launching additional 8 series, a variance 8
series Coupe was launched at the end of the 2018. Further Coupe is following now a car which is
very important for all three regions but in particular for US and Europe. So from this perspective
positive. We -- as I said, we assume there will be no tariffs increase between US and China. So we
stick to the 15% and we have not integrated additional tariffs between us and Europe. We have
planned to some extent for an hard Brexit, in our financial planning so we honestly hope there will
be a smarter solution and this might be a positive lever and of course on top of all the topics. I've
mentioned, just when answering Dorothee's question related to more short-term impacts of
Performance NEXT . The partly reversal of the provision of the quality issues I've already
answered this is integrated in our planning and on the CapEx side, this is definitely an issue we
have on our agenda to further optimize CapEx is something, which we are further developing and
in particular optimizing our production footprint, having said this, this is one of the strengths ofour company to have a flexible and global production footprint in particular in this complex
environment.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Okay, then `Daniel Schwarz, Credit Suisse and then Michael Dean.
Q - `Daniel Schwarz, Credit Suisse `
Yes thank you, `Daniel Schwarz, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. I've one question regarding the ROCE You
decided that this remains a KPI for the management. 2018 the capital employed increased 20%
and the return declined 20% in the automobile business, where do you see the bigger challenge,
the assets base or the profitability in automobiles going forward. And in that context, in 2019, you
expect the growth in automobiles to be significantly above the long-term target and see EBIT
margin significantly below. In order to make that effective KPI, should you adjust these long-term
target so that they fit together? And the second question would be the ratio net cash position
relative to market cap is at an peak level. Interest rates are low you expecting a positive free cash
flow. Is the share buyback something you are discussing at all internally or not right, now.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, let's no we are not discussing a share buyback, this is not on the agenda, why is it not on
the agenda because we believe that in particular in today's environment with our plans moving
forward our strong cash position is something which is supporting our business case in particular
with -- and penetration rate of our financial services between 50 --45, sorry, and 50% -- 45% and
50 % in the in the major markets and definitely this business unit is supported by a very good
rating, we have in from our rating agencies and this is supported by our strength -- strong the
cash position. Profit and of course, I would not say the one or the other case more challenging
coming to your first question, we have to address both. We have to address those and both
addressed in a very significant way. And in particular our -- this is one of Harald developed a little
bit earlier on our flexible architecture strategy and this is definitely something which is compared
to other strategies supporting to keep some pressure on our CapEx Ratio.
Q - `Daniel Schwarz, Credit Suisse `
And would you be adjusting the ROCE target so that they fit together with the EBIT Target?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
No we are not planning to adjust the ROCE Target.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you, Nicholas. The next question are coming from Michael Dean and then Lucas (inaudible).
Michael, please.
Q - `Mike Dean, Bloomberg `
Good morning. `Mike Dean, Bloomberg from Bloomberg intelligence. Just had a question on the free cash
flow, the 2.7 billion for automotive last year including 1.2 billion from the disposal of investment
assets and other of which a third is the China dividend. I just wondering if you could clarify what
the balance relates and its operational nature and should we expect this line to be of a similar
magnitude this year thank you.A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
The China dividend is a major -- one of the major issues in this position, we can at this point in
time it's too early to go into every single details of the free cash flow bridge from '18 to '19, and
what I would recommend maybe my colleague my colleague John town and is ready to give you
even more details head of accounting to give you more details how what is exactly in this area
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Okay. Lucas?
Q - Analyst
Good morning. I would like to know, which service is more important for BMW in the future
autonomous driving or car sharing and where do you see a higher growth potential? thank you.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
From today's perspective, is clear that both are important, reason why autonomous-driving can
change the industry as well if you don't have that (inaudible) -- customers expecting things like
level 3, level 4 or level 5 in the future, and you don't have that in your technology portfolio, you
might be lost or you might be a loser. So that is. Secondly, why this mobility services important?
Because if people don't want to I want to own a car maybe, but would like to be very mobile and
you don't offer those fleets you don't offer those type of services you can see maybe negative
impact on your sales side. If you're not in that business, so strategically both are important one
technology wise and the other one and if you look at this one this goes a little bit hand-in-hand as
well, because in the mobility services you will see level four level five cars in the future maybe as
maybe as well so that's why it makes sense to have with Daimler AG that cooperation in both
topics. We are not completely independent.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much Lucas and the last question is coming from, `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale, Stephen?
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Thank you. Steve Reitman, Societe Generale, London. I have two questions. First of all, you've
made two clearly welcome decisions about corporations with Daimler in Mobility Services and in
autonomous-driving is it possible to give some quantification of the potential saving that you can
get from cooperating on autonomous driving, because clearly as you said, you're trying to
eliminate duplication of work and it's obviously very expensive topic, which has been a burden on
the industry and worried being reflected in. For example, R&D guidance in terms of seems
expenses. My second question is about residual value risks and I think BMW is rather different
from some other companies in the sense that the residual value risk is shared with the financial
services business in the case of BMW whereas in other companies a lot of it stays in the industrial
business. Could you give some indication of what the impact has been on the margin of the
automotive business say for 2018 and maybe 2017. Have -- if residual values of actually been
improving presumably then that is hadn't let's lean and had a negative impact on the automotive
margin thank you.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
So maybe to start with the residual value at topic. Residual values developed stable across theseen a slight negative impact of RV in some European markets, which are related to the diesel
topic, but nothing really nothing dramatic at all. And we've seen the diesel sales share even
coming back in the last couple of months, I would suppose that the RV issue was also maybe in
Europe, which was not -- really not a big issue but probably also impacted by the WLTP topic and
financial services earnings very -- as you can see if you look across many years, extremely resilient
and this stability is also related to a very precise and careful RV management.
A - `Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And on the autonomous driving let's assume for example that you need to spend EUR3 billion to
EUR5 billion in the next years. You can calculate that you won't only spend 50% of that one by a
corporation. So that's why, I said, even 2016 strategic corporations in our business even for big
companies are important. And that magnitude as an example this is not too wrong that, if you're
investing, if you just see what the data center I've shown you, which we open up and things like
this one and you need data center and different countries for autonomous driving. You can save a
lot of money together, and there's one more opportunity and because you can also maybe if you
sell the IP or the stake to some third-party if you have created together the industry standard
there's also a cash coming in maybe. But it was a good question and thank you very much for
coming.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Governmental Affairs
Yes ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, it was a pleasure and now we take lunch
together, thank you, thank you.