Q3 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Unidentified Speaker
Good afternoon Europe, and good morning to the US. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen to
AstraZeneca's year-to-date and Q3 Results 2019. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to
read the Safe Harbor statement. The Company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of
the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may
make forward-looking statements with respect to the operations and financial performance of
AstraZeneca. Although, we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by
their very nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and may be
influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or
implied by these forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made on this call, reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements. Please, also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the
slide deck, that accompanies this presentation and webcast.I'll now hand you over to AstraZeneca's Chief Executive Officer, `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hello everyone. It's `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director. Welcome to the year-to-date and our third quarter 2019
conference call, and our webcast for investors and analysts. The presentation is available on
astrazeneca.com as always. And we've also sent it to those on our distribution list. So, if you want
to turn to slide two. This is the usual Safe Harbor statement. We will be making comments on our
financial performance, using core reported numbers and at constant exchange rates, CER which
are both non-GAAP measures. We will also discuss other non-GAAP measures, deemed helpful
for investors and analysts.
All numbers, we refer to million US dollars and growth rates will be at CER, and for the year-to-
date period of 2019, unless we state otherwise. Thank you. Turn to slide 3. We're going to spend
half an hour on the presentation and then we will move to the Q&A. For those on the phone,
please join in the queue by pressing star one. There is also an option to ask questions as part of
the webcast, as we would like to provide everybody with an opportunity to ask questions, we ask
you to please limit yourselves to one question in the first round. Thank you in advance for helping
us with this.
Today joined by `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business, Executive Vice President for the Oncology business unit. Ruud
Dobber, EVP for the BioPharmaceuticals business unit. `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, our Chief Financial Officer;
`Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology, our EVP for Oncology R&D and Mene Pangalos our EVP for BioPharmaceuticals
R&D. For the Q&A later we also have `Leon Wang, Executive Vice-President, International, EVP responsible for the emerging markets,
including China and other. We also have other members of our team here.
Please turn to slide 4. This is the agenda; we plan to cover all key aspects of our results today.
Please turn to slide 5. Okay. Following our return to growth in the third quarter of last year, sales
have continued on a high note in the third quarter this year. Sales were up 18% in the quarter and
17% year-to-date. We saw strong performance across the whole company. New medicines grew
by 72% and added $3 billion in incremental sales in the year-to-date period. This strong
performance was driven by both oncology up by 54% and by the Emerging Markets by 26%.
In the emerging markets, we've seen countries outside China starting to contribute more, further
diversifying our growth and our sales performance. Total revenue increased by 17% with
collaboration revenue being broadly stable. Our core operating costs increased by 6% as we
continue to invest in launches and the sustainable growth of our business, while continuing to
monitor costs.
As a result, we continue to realize operating leverage with core operating profit up by 42% core
EPS came in at $2.61 including a higher 22% tax rate. We increased the guidance for sales today
from low double-digit percentage growth to now low to mid-teens percentage growth.
As we continue to focus on return to sustainable business growth, we now anticipate a further
decline of collaboration revenue and other operating income when compared to 2018 . As a
result, core EPS guidance for 2019 remains the same. As we look ahead in time, we anticipate
continuing to invest in value creating R&D.
SG&A is in a transition phase, supporting a number of our ongoing launches and the expansion in
hematology and renal diseases. For example, where we have a limited presence today. After
2020, we anticipate fewer launches overall, a steadier state and we remain fully committed to a
core operating margin in excess of 30% reflecting the particular business mix. We also continueto anticipate covering our dividend in 2021 and in 2020 excluding the Daiichi Sankyo Milestone
payment.
In short, all the financials are tracking in line with the previous communications given. Finally, the
pipeline delivered an unprecedented level of positive news during the third quarter, and into the
fourth quarter. Today is also the first time we share anticipated pipeline news for 2021. And as
you see, we will remain busy and bringing new and better medicines to patients.
Turning to slide 6. Looking at the pipeline news flow, will only speak a few highlights. There is so
much I could not cover everything unfortunately. Tagrisso received approval in China for first-line
use and the medicine showed an overall survival benefit in the same setting from the FLAURA
trial. Along with our partner Daiichi Sankyo, we received regulatory submission acceptance by the
USFDA for Trastuzumab deruxtecan in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, with the priority
review granted. We hope soon to bring this potential new medicines to patients.
Similarly, we also soon hope to bring Calquence to more patients with blood cancer, given that
the potential new indication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is now under review in the US too.
Farxiga met the primary endpoint in its heart failure trial, which will provide access to many new
patients, who will benefit from Farxiga in an area of medicine impacting many people around the
world, as a late complication of type two diabetes.
Our Respiratory area made solid regulatory and clinical trials progress across the board with the
inhaled medicine and Fasenra. These positive developments will help support the momentum the
respiratory is now enjoying.
And finally, we are very pleased to have been -- to have remain focused on anifrolumab after the
initial setback with the first Phase III trial. We didn't give up on patients with this devastating
disease. With the second Phase III trial being positive, we'll now engage with regulatory
authorities to find a path to patients by leveraging the totality of the Phase II and the Phase III
program.
So, a special thanks to anifrolumab team for not leaving patients behind. Please to Slide 7. As you
can see on these graphs, we continue to deliver on our promise of sustained sales growth, and
we are pleased with the current trajectory. We now have five consecutive quarters of strong sales
growth. As in all companies, there is some variation from one quarter to another, and we
estimate that there is a positive boost from inventory gross-to-net adjustments of perhaps 1% to
2% in the third quarter.
Some seem to remember, when for the remainder of the year where comparisons were indeed
getting tougher. Despite this, we increased the guidance for sales growth this year to a low to
mid-teens percentage increase. Our new medicines continued to make the biggest contribution
to growth, increasing by 72% in the year-to-date and adding $3 billion in incremental sales. We are
also pleased to report, for all of our new medicines further geographical expansion beyond the
US market and in emerging markets beyond China.
Turning to slide 18, you can see here the geographical diversification that I just mentioned, is a
very important component of the new AstraZeneca. Oncology, Cardiovascular, Renal metabolic
diseases and respiratory diseases are all areas where we can make a positive and lasting impact
to public health and support patients in need. Within each of these areas, we are expanding from
the US and Japan into Europe and the emerging markets. Dave, will cover later on an example of
this encouraging progress with what Imfinzi has achieved in Europe.Specifically, in the emerging markets, we have seen an encouraging return to growth, in markets
outside China which Ruud will expand on in a few minutes. This comes following a dedicated
effort and then investment that is similar to that made in China over the past years, and these
emerging markets outside China are now showing sustained growth helping balance and
diversify our company not only across therapy areas, but also geographies.
As we look ahead, we anticipate the high growth to moderate, but it will remain at high levels,
probably around low double-digit growth for the Emerging markets overall, and ahead of the
long-term trend we have talked about at many occasions in the past.
In short, we are becoming more diversified than previously and in comparison with our peers. This
will create a more sustainable performance in the future compared to the past. Please turn to
slide nine. Before ending my introduction, I would like to talk about sustainability in the very broad
definition. It is very important to AstraZeneca, as a sustainable company, our commitment to
society, people and the planet, lies at the heart of everything we do. I am tremendously proud of
the progress that we continue to make. As you can see from our results announcement, there
are several important updates on our journey to embed sustainability in our company. This past
month, we celebrated the 5th anniversary of Healthy Heart Africa, a program that was initially
established in 2014, in response to an employee crowd-sourcing initiative.
Healthy Heart Africa has helped us establish a long-term commitment in Africa with tangible
outcomes that demonstrate our commitment to reducing the burden of non-communicable
diseases. In collaboration with our partners, we have conducted more than 12 millions blood
pressure screenings, identified over 2 million elevated blood pressure readings. We've trained
over 6,300 healthcare workers and we have activated over 700 healthcare facilities in Africa to
provide hypertension services.
In September, we also received the good news that we have been included in the 2019 Dow
Jones Sustainability Indices. This is the 18th time, the company has been added. We achieved a
perfect score of 100 in the areas of environmental reporting, labor practice indicators and social
reporting and the health outcome contribution. We are again named as a member of the
FTSE4Good Index Series. AstraZeneca ranked in the 94th percentile of the healthcare industry
with perfect scores in climate change, anti-corruption, corporate governance and customer
responsibility.
Companies cannot solve issues of health and the environment by themselves. There has to be a
joint effort between governments, companies and non-governmental organization to get to a
healthier planet and healthier people. We are committed to playing our part. Thanks for your
continued support of our company and the progress we're making.
With this important summary, I'll hand over to Dave to cover our oncology business. So, please
turn to slide 10.
`Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business `
Thank you so much, Pascal and it's really a pleasure to be here to update on the performance of
our oncology portfolio before as usual handing it over to Ruud for an update on
biopharmaceuticals and emerging markets. Please turn to Slide 11. As we report on the year-to-
date for oncology, we have reached sales of $6.4 billion with continued strong growth at 54%
with our four new medicines now contributing $2.3 billion of incremental sales.
We do expect some headwind as we move into the final quarter of the year in our mature
portfolio with generic fulvestrant entrants taking effect in the US and further Iressa declines as wefocus our efforts on Tagrisso. In the lung cancer franchise, the Tagrisso and Imfinzi launches and
the indications of first line EGFR mutated non-small cell lung cancer and resectable Stage III non-
small cell lung cancer are progressing quite nicely as more countries outside of the US are now
granting access to patients.
Lynparza continues to cement itself as the leading PARP inhibitor, as we see more women with
first line ovarian cancer being treated across the globe. Faslodex is holding ground with sales of
$726 million in the year-to-date, a decline of 1%, but the impact to generics is accelerating in the
United States. We still see encouraging uptake of Calquence with sales of $108 million in the year-
to-date, an equal proportion of prescriptions are now seen in the non-promoted CLL use as they
are in the mantle cell lymphoma indication. This follows the NCCN guideline changes, with the
elevation from Level 2A to 1 for relapsed refractory CLL, earlier in the year. Please turn to slide 12.
The company's number one selling medicine, Tagrisso demonstrated continued growth, up by
86% in the year-to-date with $2.3 billion in sales, as the global first-line label launches continue to
take effect. The current annualized run rate is now over $3.5 billion. The US showed strong growth
with sales of $909 million with also strong sequential growth as we reach a high level of
penetration in the first-line setting, though we were helped by positive gross to net adjustments
in inventory movements during the quarter. Europe reported $337 million with a growth of 61% as
more first-line reimbursement decisions continue to take effect.
Japan had sales of $468 million as very high levels of penetration were reached in the first-line
setting, ahead of the anticipated November price cuts that we'll have in Japan. Emerging markets
saw $553 million in sales, with a good level of penetration being reached in the second-line
indication as a result of the NRDL inclusion within China. Please turn to Slide 13.
Continuing in lung cancer, Imfinzi saw strong quarterly growth, as the global approvals and
reimbursements for the PACIFIC indication of unresectable Stage III non-small cell lung cancer
start to take effect. Imfinzi reported sales of $1.045 billion with the majority coming from the US
and the lung indication. The US showed strong sales of $759 million where we continue to see all
metrics for post-chemo radiation Imfinzi usage increase as evidenced by the increasing patient
infusions that are illustrated on the right hand side of the graph. We see that most of the
immediately available patients are now benefiting from Imfinzi.
Sales outside the US are continuing to ramp up, as we look to launch and gain reimbursement in
the relevant countries. Japan delivered $149 million and Europe $115 million, were similar to the
US, the metrics on usage post-chemo radiation are increasing, but of course, started at much
lower levels. Please turn to slide 14. Finally for Lynparza, we demonstrated continued progress
with sales of $847 million with growth across all regions as we continue to roll-out the broader
second line maintenance label in ovarian cancer and the breast and first line ovarian indications in
the major markets of the US, EU and Japan.
US sales were $432 million where Lynparza maintained its position as the leading PARP inhibitor at
over 60% share as measured by total prescription volumes. Increase in demand came from the
all comers label in the second line ovarian cancer setting and the subsequent first-line label, as
well as some use within the breast cancer indication. Europe sales were $208 million, up by 61%
versus last year as we continue to execute additional launches and secure reimbursement across
several markets, for ovarian cancer patients in the first line and the second line all comers setting.
Japan delivered $91 million in sales, following the launches in ovarian and breast cancer last year.
We saw the impact of the Ryotanki lift in the second quarter, slightly impacting sequential growth,though underlying demand was quite strong. Lynparza was the first PARP inhibitor launched in
China, which contributed to the $101 million in the Emerging markets for the quarter.
I will now hand it over to Ruud to cover CVRM Respiratory and Emerging Markets in more detail.
But before doing so, I would really like to thank all of my Oncology colleagues around the globe
for making a difference every single day to the benefits of patients and our company. Please turn
to slide 15, and I turn it over to Ruud.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business `
Many things Dave. Today, I will talk to you about the biopharmaceuticals business. Total sales of
the two therapy areas was $7 billion in the year-to-date growing at 13%. We are very pleased with
the continued growth of Farxiga and Brilinta, the ongoing successful launch of Fasenra and the
recent launch of Breztri in Japan. Although Symbicort faced some headwinds, Pulmicort continued
to provide robust sales. We look to build on this overall growth including through further launches
for Lokelma throughout the remainder part of the year. Please turn to slide 16.
Moving to New CVRM, sales were up by 14% despite intense competition in diabetes, with total
sales up $3.2 billion. Growth for both Farxiga and Brilinta continued with double-digit increases
globally. Farxiga delivered sales of $1.1 billion with 17% growth and maintaining volume market
share leadership globally benefiting from SGLT2 class drug. In the US, Farxiga saw a decline of 6%
impacted by adverse gross to net adjustments and formulary changes. Underlying volume growth
was up, outside the US where we have 65% of sales. We have seen encouraging performances
with volume driven growth increasing.
Europe sales were up by 26% and Emerging Markets sales were up by 50%. Bydureon including
the also injected Bydureon BCISE sales were down by 7%. Sales were partly driven by the impact
of production constraints in the first half of the new Bydureon BCISE device and declining volumes
for the dual-chamber pen.
Brilinta delivered sales of $1.2 billion with 26% growth, driven by a strong performance in the
emerging markets up by 59%. We also had continuous growth in the US and Europe up by 22%
and 9% respectively. Brilinta continues to outgrow in market in all regions. Finally, the Lokelma
launch is progressing well with strong initial trends following the recent launches in the US and
Europe, as we look to provide an effective treatment option for hyperkalemic patients.
Please turn to slide 17. Turning to Respiratory, we saw 13% growth in the year-to-date driven by
Fasenra and Pulmicort. Symbicort was down by 4% in the year-to-date at $1.8 billion. Growth in the
quarter was up by 1% as US pricing pressures eases and growth continues in Japan and the
emerging markets.
Overall volume growth continues and we remain the global volume market share leader in the
ICS LABA class. Pulmicort was up 23% with sales of $1.1 billion with Emerging Markets as a driver of
this growth up by 29%.
Fasenra is now $0.5 billion of sales in the year to date, with the bulk of the sales continuing to
come from the US, Germany and Japan. In the US, Fasenra is performing very well against new
competitors with $343 million in sales. Europe and Japan sales were $81 million and $62 million
respectively as Fasenra continues to be the leading novel biologic in many countries.
We now have Fasenra available for self-administration with the Fasenra pen auto injector device
approved in the US after the early approval in the EU. We are also currently launching PT010known as Breztri Aerosphere in Japan for COPD. But the initial launch is going well. Now, I will
move to the emerging markets. Please turn to slide 18.
Emerging Markets continue to track, ahead of our long-term performance ambition, which is to
grow sales on average by a mid-to high single-digit percentage with 26% sales growth overall in
the year-to-date.
Outside China, overall sales were up by 12% with growth spread across the region, China
delivered a very strong performance again this quarter, with now 37% growth in the year-to-date
with the new launches continuing to take effect. The preliminary NRDL update adds Kombiglyze
to the list as well as removing reimbursement restrictions for some of our respiratory medicines,
including Symbicort. New medicines grew by 86%, contributing 22% of the total sales in the
region with a strong performance spread across our main therapy areas.
Overall, oncology was up by 51% driven by Tagrisso, new CVRM was up by 46% with key
contributors Farxiga and Brilinta and Respiratory sales were up by 31% with Pulmicort and
Symbicort as the key drivers.
With this, I will hand over now to Marc. Please turn to slide 19.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Ruud and hello everyone. I want to take you through our financial performance in the
first nine months of the year, and the third quarter as well as our financial priorities and our
updated guidance. Please turn to slide 20.
As usual, I will start with the reported P&L. Before reviewing our core performance, as Pascal
mentioned earlier product sales grew by 17% in the year-to-date, partly benefiting from favorable
inventory and gross-to-net movements in the third quarter, which are not expected in the final
quarter of the year.
Of the $405 million of collaboration revenue received in the first nine months of the year, $260
million were in respect of Lynparza milestones as part of our collaboration with Merck. It is worth
noting that when trastuzumab deruxtecan comes to market, most income flows to AstraZeneca
will also be recorded within collaboration revenue. Please turn to slide 21.
Moving now to the core P&L. Our gross margin ratio improved by 1 percentage point in the year-
to-date to 81% as we continue to drive an improving mix of sales. We continue to -- reinvestment
in our business when allocating our capital.
In the quarter, core R&D expenses increased by 9%, overall around the half of this reflected first
time development costs relating to trastuzumab deruxtecan. Looking at core G&A expenses,
which are a function of our sales growth, they also increased by 9% in the quarter, resulting from
our expansion in China and the support for our new medicines.
We do however continue to maintain our core discipline. While, operating costs increased by 6%
in the year to date, they represented only 59% of total revenue. This was a 6 percent point
reduction year-on-year, and this milestone is another clear indication of our operating leverage
progress.
Other operating income of over $1 billion primarily reflected the sales earlier in the year of the US
rights to Synagis as well as the recent sales of the right to Losec. It did however reduce by 6% in
the year-to-date as we divest fewer medicines.With product sales continuing to grow ahead of operating cost, we delivered a 5 percentage
point improvement in our core operating profit margin in the year-to-date to 28%. We remain on
track to move to a 30% plus operating profit margin after next year.
The core tax rate in the year-to-date was 22%, which was impacted by the geographic mix of
profits and the impact of collaboration and divestment activity. And now expect a full year core
tax rate of between 20% and 22%. Even with the higher than average core tax rate and reduce
transaction income in the year-to-date, our core earnings per share increased by 38% to $2.61.
Please turn to slide 22.
Turning to debt and cash generation. Our net debt was broadly unchanged in the year to date at
$13.3 billion. The share issuance of $3.5 billion, an EBITDA of $4.5 billion were directed to a higher
than average level of purchase of intangible assets such as the first upfront payment in respect
of trastuzumab deruxtecan to Daiichi Sankyo.
We also had the final true-up payment of around $400 million to Merck. We also noted the
payment for the dividend of $3.6 billion. Looking at cash from operations, we made encouraging
progress in the year-to-date. We delivered an inflow of about $1.6 billion in the year-to-date
versus an inflow of around $400 million in the prior period.
The improvement in the movement of working capital and short-term provisions versus last year
stems primarily from the stability of our receivables. Cash tax was higher this year, however, it
was reflecting the phasing of tax payment on past deals in particular and the impact of tax refund
in 2018.
Below cash from operations, higher cash flow from the disposal of intangible assets were more
than offset by higher cash flow from the purchase of intangible assets, that I mentioned a
moment ago. Please turn to slide 23.
This is a slide I will continue to use each quarter, that demonstrates how we are delivering what
we said we would do. We are making good progress in driving strong and sustainable sales
growth and we are fully committed to growing operating leverage and profitability. I am
encouraged by what we have already achieved this year.
As I mentioned a moment ago, these improvements are intended to generate more cash, which
will help us deleverage our balance sheet further and increase the dividend at the earliest
appropriate opportunity. Looking at this year, our cash from operation plus divestment income will
be broadly in line with 2018. The majority of this year's outflow from legacy business
development transaction took place in the first half.
Looking ahead, our unchanged ambition is to fully cover the dividend with cash flows before
financing activities in 2021. Please turn to slide 24. Finally, I will turn to guidance for the year, which
is on product sales and core EPS at constant exchange rates. As you know, we have upgraded our
sales guidance for the second successive quarter, and now expect product sales to grow by low
to mid-teen percentage this year, even accounting for an anticipated lower level of growth in the
final quarter, as mentioned by Pascal and Dave earlier.
I expect a reduction in the sum of collaboration revenue and other operating income this year as
we become less reliant on divestments income over time. I am expecting -- I'm now expecting
the core rate of 20% to 22% this year and anticipate growth in core earnings per share to $3.5 to
$3.7 at constant exchange rates. Lastly, capital expenditure is still expected to be broadly stable
this year, and we continue to target a reduction in restructuring charges. With that, I will now hand
over to Jose.`Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `
Thank you Marc. Let's turn to slide 25 and good afternoon everyone. I'm happy to provide an
update of the progress made in our oncology pipeline since last quarter. As usual, I am joined by
my counterpart Mene Pangalos, who will discuss our biopharmaceuticals pipeline and inflows
across the business. Mene will also provide an update on progress we have made in our mid-
stage pipeline. Please turn to slide 26.
I will start by recapping some of the key data readouts we had this quarter during the World
Congress in Lung Cancer and ESMO for our lung cancer franchise. At ESMO in September, we
presented overall survival data from Tagrisso's Phase III FLAURA trial, where Tagrisso showed a
statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction of 52% in risk of central nervous system
disease progression or death.
Overall survival was a key secondary endpoint in the FLAURA Phase III trial, compared with
previous standard of care treatment in this setting. This is in addition to FLAURA meeting its
primary endpoint in July 2017, showing a statistically significant and clinically meaningful
improvement in progression-free survival. The increase in the time patients lived without disease
progression or death from any cost.
At the World Congress in lung cancer, we presented the results from the Phase III trial, CASPIAN,
which show Imfinzi become the first immunotherapy medicine to show both significant survival
benefit and improved durable responses in extensive stage small cell lung cancer. As a reminder,
the CASPIAN data has received orphan drug designation status in the US, and we look forward to
bring in the benefits of this regimen to patients in the near future.
Upcoming news flow for the Imfinzi franchise will include the POSEIDON data in Stage IV first-line
non-small cell lung cancer. For your information, Crestor in head and neck and Danube in bladder,
drill-outs will now be in the first half of the next year. We will also have neoadjuvant non-small cell
lung data from EGM [ph] and concurrent Imfinzi treatment with platinum-based chemo radiation
therapy in the PACIFIC-II study in the second half of 2020.
Please turn to Slide 27. Now to update you on recent news from our PARP inhibitor Lynparza. At
this year's ESMO conference, we presented the all comers ovarian cancer data from the PAOLA
Phase III trial. Lynparza has demonstrated an unprecedented median progression-free survival in
first-line maintenance of ovarian cancer in excess of 22 months in a representative ovarian cancer
population, that is not restricted by surgical outcome with additional benefit in HRD positive
patients.
The BRC mutant and HRD positive patients in PAOLA I achieved a remarkable length of time with
the disease progression in excess of 37 months. Through this data, through this trial, Lynparza
becomes the only PARP inhibitor with Phase III ovarian cancer data both a mono therapy in BRCA
mutant patients or when combined with Bevacizumab in all comers patients. This analysis of
PAOLA data in prima-like patients will be presented at the ASCO 2019 meeting in Athens next
month.
We also presented at ESMO, the Phase III PROfound data for Lynparza, looking at Lynparza use in
second-line metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. PROfound becomes the first positive
Phase III trial in biomarker selected patients showing a statistically significant and clinically
meaningful improvement in the primary endpoint of radiographic progression-free survival with
Lynparza versus enzalutamide or abiraterone in men selected for BRCA 1/2 or ATM gene
retentions.The results of these trials are the latest successes in our pursuit to provide continued
improvements to the standard of care for cancer patients.
With this, I will now hand over to Mene.
`Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - `
Thank you. Can we move to Slide 28 please, and hello everyone joining us on the call today.
We've had another really great quarter in biopharmaceuticals and starting with new CVRM,
positive declared Farxiga is now approved in both the US and in the EU. Farxiga also obtained Fast
Track designation status at both heart failure and chronic kidney disease from the USFDA. At the
European Society for Cardiology meeting in September, we presented the breakthrough Farxiga
DAPA-HF data where it met the primary composite endpoint with a statistically significant and
clinically meaningful reduction of both CV death or worsening of heart failure versus placebo. In
diabetic and importantly and non-diabetic patients with reduced ejection fraction on standard of
care treatment.
Also at the ESC, we presented full THEMIS data for Brilinta, which showed a reduction of the risk
of CV events in patients with coronary arterial disease and type 2 diabetes. In this trial, Brilinta
plus aspirin reduced the relative risk for the composite of CV death, heart attack or stroke by 10%
and for a subgroup of patients who had undergone percutaneous coronary intervention or PCI,
with sort of 15% relative risk reduction observed for Brilinta plus aspirin compared to aspirin alone.
Lastly, we now have approval of roxadustat in China, a first-in-class treatment of anemia of CKD
for both non-dialysis dependent and dialysis dependent patients and we are awaiting
reimbursement.
Full data from the Phase III ROCKIES AND OLYMPUS trials and the pooled CV safety data will be
presented at the American Society for Nephrology, next month. Please turn to Slide 29. Moving on
to respiratory and immunology. Our triple combination therapy PT010 saw a positive Phase III data
in the ETHOS trial in patients with moderate to severe COPD. PT010 with its primary endpoint,
two different budesonide doses demonstrating statistically significant reduction in the rate of
moderate or severe exacerbations compared with dual combination therapies. From the US FDA,
we received a complete response letter for PT010 and I'll point out that the application data from
only the Phase III KRONOS trial.
We'll now aim to submit ETHOS data for review, now the trial has completed and timelines for
approval remain unchanged. PT010 has also been approved in Japan under the brand name
Breztri Aerosphere and is under regulatory review in the EU and China or has been granted
priority review status by the China and MPA. Moving onto Fasenra, we received orphan drug
designation from the USFDA for the treatment of eosinophilic oesophagitis, a rare chronic
inflammatory disease which affects fewer than 200,000 patients in the US. Recent activities,
include the approved in the US for self-administration of the Fasenra Pen, a prefilled, single use
auto injector. Fasenra self-administration and the Fasenra Pen have also been approved in the EU.
Lastly, we were significantly encouraged by the positive Phase III TULIP 2 trial for anifrolumab, a
potential new medicine for the treatment of lupus. TULIP 2 met its primary endpoint, achieving a
statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction in disease activity as measured by the
BICLA assessment versus placebo with both arms receiving standard of care.
TULIP 2 was the second Phase III trial designed to assess the efficacy and safety of anifrolumab as
a treatment for adults with moderate to severe SLE. The positive BICLA response in TULIP 2, was
consistent with a positive pre specified analysis of the previous Phase III TULIP 1 trial which did notbe presented at the American College of Rheumatology Annual Meeting next month. Please turn
to slide 30.
Now, for a quick update on progress on some of our exciting new medicines in mid-stage
development, showcasing the level of breadth and depth we're able to achieve throughout our
pipeline across our therapy areas. Concerning updates this quarter, in oncology, we made a
decision to progress the Phase 3 for monalizumab, our NKG2a monoclonal antibody where it's
being evaluated in head and neck and colorectal cancers.
In CVRM, cotadutide our new GLP1 glucagon co-agonist has now started Phase II trials in NASH.
Our other ongoing Phase III programs for capivasertib, our AKT inhibitor trastuzumab deruxtecan I
can never say that in oncology and PT027 [ph] in respiratory are all progressing well and to plan,
and we look forward to giving you updates in due course.
Please turn to slide 31. Now, I'd like to summarize some of the key news flow items, still to come
across the company pipeline. The fourth quarter of the year is another busy period at
AstraZeneca, and is a testament to our ongoing growth trajectory. For oncology, as previously
mentioned by Jose, we will have POSEIDON data and we'll submit CASPIAN data before the end
of the year. We also expect regulatory decisions for Imfinzi PACIFIC data and for Lynparza SOLO
one data in China. In the US, we expect the decision for Lynparza for use in first-line BRCA
mutated pancreatic cancer. For biopharmaceuticals, we're due to have a regulatory submission of
roxadustat for anemia of CKD in the US, and in respiratory a regulatory decision for COPD PT10 in
China, all before year-end.
As always, I would like to say a special thank you to all our colleagues here at AstraZeneca whose
expertise and dedication help bring these new medicines to patients. And with that, I will now
hand back to Pascal for closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Mene. In the interest of time, if you don't mind we'll go straight to the Q&A, and thank
you so much for your attention and we'll open the Q&A with on Andrew Baum at Citi. Andrew, go
ahead.
Questions And Answers
Q - `Andrew Simon Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Inc `
Question for Dave, on access to Calquence in the US post anticipated approval in the CLL, I
assume that you've shared in advance the ELEVATE-TN dataset with them, could you just confirm
that is the case thinking about inclusion within Medicare formularies. And then second, AVI
historically in other disease areas has shown itself adept in using rebates to secure preferred
formulary status for its drugs. How are you thinking about that given Astra is a new player
entering a competitive market in hematology, where historically you have not had a presence.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business `
Thanks Andrew for the questions . I think that maybe the first part to answer on that is that, one
of the key strategic reasons that we launched in the US, in particular into the mantle cell
lymphoma indication was to really build up not only our field based expertise, but also to be able
to have conversations with payers to help really pave the way for when the CLL data arrived.
And so, I think that what's important to note is that we today are on many formularies, also on
guidelines for MCL and that certainly creates, I think a positive path for us as we engage in thosesame discussions within CLL. In terms of some of your more specific questions, we have every
expectation is, is that in CLL that it will be managed through prior authorization to label or the
guidelines, which is the same as every other oncology indication. I think I mentioned in my
prepared remarks that already NCCN has upgraded the guideline from 2A to 1 for the relapsed
refractory, based upon the ASCEND data.
We certainly would be submitting the ELEVATE-TN data for guidelines once it's presented at an
upcoming meeting and all of that, we would expect to flow through both the private as well as
the public arena. On your last question about rebates, certainly BTKIs, we've seen just with MCL
are a class that is increasingly looked to be managed because of the fact that we're coming in
with competition. And so, I would say that we certainly do expect that we will need to make some
concessions, as it relates to rebates as you alluded to the specific amounts of those, we don't
share. But, that certainly will be a part of discussions that will need to be having, given the fact
that we've got competition within the space. Did I address your questions, Andrew?
Q - `Andrew Simon Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Inc `
Yeah, that's fine. Thank you David.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Dave. And so the next question is from `Sachin Jain, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch at Bank of America. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my questions. One product and one financial. On financial, I was wondering, if
you could just give us some color on the OpEx growth into next year at a very high level. I know
guide is officially next year, but year-to-date cost growth in mid single digits, consensus models
have slowed down in OpEx growth roughly 2% to 2% next year. So, just wondering where do you
see enough investment opportunities to keep that mid-single digit rate ongoing, which would still
obviously still allow leverage versus a faster top line with consensus roughly at 10% to 11% for next
year.
Second question for Mene on roxa. There's a lot of debate regarding data at ASN particularly the
NDD setting. At our conference you reference data is complicated and requiring interpretation, I
was wondering if you could clarify that comment. And do you think ASN resolves the debate in
NDD on CV data or do you expect the debates continue thereafter? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Sachin. So, maybe I could ask Marc to cover the first one and Mene will address the
other question.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. My life is easy today. Thank you Sachin. So, for the operating expense, first of all, before I
comment on next year, let me say for this year at the end of September, we are at growth of
6.5% so slightly higher than what we have guided. We do expect that this growth will slow down in
the fourth quarter and should come back somewhere around a mid single-digit, and I believe for
next year this is probably a good indication. However, I want to quantify that the important metric
for us is operating leverage, and in a very monetary manner, we look at operating leverage as
product sales minus growth of operating expenses, and this is an important metric that we have
looked at in 2019, and we will continue to look at it in 2020 and 2021.So, we do -- we do look at operating expense as a sort of a corollary of the product growth.
That's the two very important valuable we look at. And we don't want to sort of miss any
opportunities of growth, either product wise or geography wise to -- just to reach a sort of a pre-
ordained expense growth. So, we look at the operating leverage more than anything.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Marc. Mene?
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - `
Yes. So, with regards to my statement around roxa being complex. First of all, let me just say,
we're still very confident about the molecule and the data that we have. The reason that I talk
about it being a complex program is because we're studying different patient populations,
comparing to different comparators with different statistical endpoints and working with three
partners, at the same time.
So all in all, it is no doubt a complicated program. Is the debate going to stop around NDD, what I
think you'll have to wait and look for the data in a couple of weeks' time is not too long to wait
Sachin, we'll also have an analyst call following the meeting, so hopefully we'll be able to go into
more detail there, but, as you can imagine, a 15-minute presentation, covering the topic.
We're not going to be able to get through everything, and ultimately, again I think the best
statement is we still remain confident in the data package we have overall, both for the NDD
population and the DD population.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business `
Thank you Mene. You know, as Mene said the one thing that has complicated the discussion result
is the fact that there hasn't been any new product in this field approved or reviewed for many,
many years. So, maybe some people lost the view there -- the understanding that there are
many different endpoints in this field. So, in that sense it's a bit complicated, but certainly you will
see the data very soon. `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank has the next question. Richard?
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi thanks for taking my questions. Firstly on emerging markets in China, which obviously keeps
beating people's expectations and I'm happy you've given a short-term growth target. Maybe -- I
don't know if you can commit to how long you think that double-digit growth will be sustainable
for, but more importantly in terms of your China business, I often come across investors that see
that as much of a risk as an opportunity, given the China government's determination to provide
best health care at the lowest possible cost.
So, could you talk about possible headwinds or whether it's from expansion of 4+7 tender
process and maybe talk about how protected you think some of your large franchises like
Symbicort and Pulmicort from those kinds of tender process.
My second question is just on Brilinta, very quickly given the ISAR-REACT 5 trial showing superior
outcomes for generic Effient and patients with ACS that seems to have negatively impacted
prescription growth. So, trying to understand what your expectations are for Brilinta, and how
you're helping physicians to put that data in context. Thanks very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Thanks Richard. So, let me just make a quick comment and then I hand over to Ruud, and Ruud, if
you could cover China and Brilinta and impact on prescriptions, and maybe Leon could chip in a
little bit after you on additional thoughts on China. The general comment, I will make Richard is
that, life is always a mixture of risks and opportunities. I mean China is full of opportunities, there
are risks and the US is full of opportunities and there are risks, innovation in pipeline is full of
opportunities, and there are risks. So, for me, I'd rather call it exciting, because what's happening
in China just like what's happening in our pipeline or in the US is suddenly full of exciting aspect.
So with this more specifically Ruud, if you want to cover the question on China?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business `
Yes, of course, first of all, Richard, we are not going to give, let's say, specific guidance per
quarter for China. First of all, I think we are very pleased with the current performance, equally,
we have been transparent that the value based procurements is already kicking in, that will move
further also in 2020. But, I think we are in a unique position in China with a very, very broad
portfolio of products -- mature products. Clearly, but also with new innovative products, we are
mentioning the Crestor, we're mentioning Brilinta, Farxiga fantastic growth and it's our task in
order to deliver new innovative medicines in order to counteract potential impact of value-based
procurements. I cannot let's say suppress my excitement regarding roxadustat in China, it will be
the first new chemical industry to be launched in China, and I think it's a testimony for the people
on the ground as well as our global teams in order to make that happen.
So, although, as we will no longer be 40%, we still believe that it will be in the mid teens or
slightly higher than that moving forward. Regarding -- your question regarding Brilinta, first of all, I
think it's fair to say that we were a little bit surprised to see the results knowing the overwhelming
amount of evidence, we have shown in the last few years with the PLATO trial. The recently -- the
THEMIS trial, the PEGASUS trial, it's a trial where there a couple of, let's say hiccups, if I may say
it's an open-label trial conducted mainly in one country and once again it's inconsistent with the
body of evidence that Brilinta and (inaudible) clearly have shown. We have seen a bit of an
impact, equally, I think the market especially in the US is coming to terms and we expect that
moving forward, that the overall impact will be very limited.
The Brilinta growth, the prescription growth is still very healthy in the United States, and one we
firmly believe that, that will continue moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Rudd. Leon, do you want to give a little bit more color on what's happening in China
and make sure people understand the process of this 4+7 that is fully rolled out, and how this will
happen over the next period of time?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice-President, International `
Yes. I think the 4+7 AstraZeneca have two products Iressa and a Crestor and Iressa win the
tender and Crestor lose the tender, because pricing. And I think now it's expanding outside of
4+7 in quarter three, quarter four already and in 2020 it will be fully implemented, almost in all
China. And then if you lose tender, you can only compete in the 30% of the hospital reimbursable
markets and also the self-pay market. And Iressa win the tender -- are competing fully in the 70%
or one-third of the province, and in the two-third of the province can only compete 30% of the
reimbursable hospital market, and also self pay markets.
So, I don't think these two product sales will go down, but I don't think it will disappear. I think, it
will be gradually going down in the whole year, next year. But, this is not important I think now inChina, we have, we are also getting an idea of negotiation. We're negotiating in the coming
months, roxa, forxiga, lynparza and in the new round, the NRDL, the government also removing
the second line limitation of Symbicort, which is very important maintenance treatment so to
succeed, our largest product Pulmicort.
And also, we have a 10 products getting to last year in EDL, which this year will be implemented,
which is notably brilinta, forxiga, pulmicort, symbicort are uniquely listed in EDL will be -- occupy
good volume in many level of hospitals which being implemented more and more strictly, when
government rationalize the usage of drugs. And also in China, we are unavoidably to harder to
remember all the new launches coming, it's Imfinzi, it is being launched in 2020, Tagrisso first line
already launch and next year it will be fully launched, first line and Lynparza SOLO-1, Lokelma and
Triple PT010 and the Bevespi . So, we have many, many new launches and we have a very good
launch -- commercial launch mechanism and AstraZeneca is very good in launching new products.
So, I think with all these good news, on top of under-diagnosed and under-treated and not really
compliant patient follow up market, I think we have huge room to improve our business in China.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `
Thanks Leon. So, Richard, as you hopefully convince, now it's very exciting to be in China. But, of
course there are headwinds there, just like we will also face headwinds in different geographies,
that's part of the industry, we are in. Let's move to a question online. Luisa Hector at Exane, sent
us a question about Calquence, so I think Marc, it's probably for you. And the question is why was
the Acerta payment renegotiated with regards to timing and will have Acerta shareholders
contribute to the settlement payment to AbbVie.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Okay, thank you Luisa for the question. So, let me take the second part of the question first. This
was obviously same product Calquence is the product of concern, but there were two separate
resolutions, so AstraZeneca was I mean -- obtain a settlement with AbbVie and Janssen on the
one hand, and another settlement to another renegotiation with the Acerta ex-shareholder. So,
these are two separate resolution. Try to address the first part of your question, why were the
Acerta payment renegotiated with regard to timing? As we are moving closer to the CNL [ph], I
think both parties, the ex-Acerta shareholders and ourselves wanted to increase the certainty for
the resolution of the put option, and basically in these discussions AstraZeneca also wanted to
have a deferral of the payment, which was agreed by the other party.
So, our interest in this was to delay the payments, and we have now three regular payments
between 2022 and 2024 and both parties I believe benefit from the certainty of that resolution.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Marc. Let's move to `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS at UBS. Michael, over to you.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks so much. So, a question on Tagrisso please, if I strip out the inventory and gross to net in
the US that you helpfully outlined, it looks like sequentially, the product went backwards in Q3
over Q2. I just wondered if you could get some color on that. And then a question for Jose, as we
go into the DESTINY IV data (inaudible). What is your thinking now in running a potential adjuvant
HER2 breast cancer trial, in terms of size and also duration. Is that statistically -- can you do ahead-to-head trial against standard of care, and do you think statistically it's feasible to do it in
terms of number of the patients and the duration of study would have to take? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Michael. So Dave maybe, if you can cover the first question relating to Tagrisso
quarter-to-quarter and then Jose will take the next question.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business `
Yeah, absolutely. So in terms of -- in terms of the question on Tagrisso, so Tagrisso absolutely
had sequential demand growth in the United States. So, it did not in any way go backwards. We
did comment on the fact that in the sequential sales of the US, which were $350 million from the
$300 million in Q2 that half of that came from positive gross to net adjustments, as well as some
inventory movement; the other half obviously being made up of demand.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Dave. Jose?
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `
Thank you Michael. So, on the early crystal strategy with the (inaudible), these are still early days
for us. So, we still don't have a clear idea on what are we going to be doing in that space, other
than we are going to be in that space, and that we are going to find the best way to bring this
drug early in the disease -- this drug has a number of advantages and could down the line,
potentially replace chemotherapy.
But, we are not there yet. I think we need to wait for some of -- more studies before have some
decision capacity on the study design in that setting. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay, so -- and we'll move to the next question. Thank you Jose. `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs. Keyur, go ahead.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Two questions please. First one, just continuing with 8201 Seattle Genetics recently
kind of press released the Phase III data for tucatinib. Just wondering, if you guys could share your
perspective on the data, how do you think that compound positions versus 8201 in the later line
settings, that will be first.
And then, secondly as we think about 2020 and I realize you won't give guidance here today, but
just can you help us think about as you transition into a more operationally geared kind of P&L,
how comfortable are you with where consensus fits on the EPS line for next year. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Keyur. So, I'll address your second question directly, which you've answered yourself,
which is we indeed do not give guidance now for next year. And I'll ask Jose to cover your first
question, if that's okay in the Seattle Genetics data.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `Yeah, absolutely. So, the DS-8201 is a very differentiated drug in the space of HER2 therapy, and
we are dealing with the drug that has an unprecedented benefit in patients with advanced
disease. So, we are very confident in our own efficacy, and we are looking forward to sharing with
you the data in San Antonio.
I'd also like to recall that we are very pleased that the US FDA has acknowledged the potentials
of the drug by the acceptance of priority review, which is to us, and to our patients very important
.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you very much Jose. I mean, in fact since you have the microphone there is a question
online from Steve Scala, and then the question is about immunotherapy, the cross-over has made
hitting overall survival in front line lung trials, more and more difficult. Is this a concern in
POSEIDON?
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `
We will have the POSEIDON data, as we have said all along, in this quarter. So, basically, at this
point the only thing we need to do is frankly to wait for the data. The data will speak for itself. .
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you. There is another two question coming from Steven, I think both for you in fact, the first
question relates to roxadustat is it decided with FDA on the statistical plan in the dialysis study
versus placebo. That's one question. So, the answer is yes. Okay. So the answer is yes. And then
the second question is Brilinta, filing in type 2 diabetes and CAD, the same is filing, we are still
planning to file. (Multiple Speakers)
So that's why actually, Steven, it's no longer on the list. It has been submitted. So, let's move to
`Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays, Barclays. Emmanuel?
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Barclays `
Thanks for taking the question. Maybe, I'll take a follow-up on Tagrisso just your degrees of
optimism in terms of getting first on NRDL reimbursement. I think the earliest that could be late
next year, and particularly topical course in light of some discussion around the Asian subgroup
(inaudible) that we saw at ESMO. A second question would be on the SGLT2 class. It seems to
continue to struggle somewhat given the results we've seen this week. So, just to your degree of
confidence will we be able to see the class resume growth within diabetes with the launch of new
oral competitors. And, indeed, if you could do something to quantify your internal expectations
on the heart failure opportunity as well, that would be helpful.
And then maybe just, sorry, could I just take a very quick follow-up for Marc, you helpfully clarified
the staggering in terms of timing for the assets payment, magnitude should we sort of assume
that is going to be about $3 billion evenly staggered over those years? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Emmanuel. So Marc, do you want to cover that comment?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `Yes. Maybe, I should take the last part, the sort of the payments taking place from 2022 to 2024.
We have indicated in our financial statements the net present value of these three payments and
that's $2072 million [ph]. So there are roughly three regular and similar payments of about $900
million.
So, there are not -- if you make the total of those, in nominal terms, they do not reach $3 billion.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Marc. So Ruud, maybe the other question about, I mean, two questions for you in fact,
the trend in the SGLT2 class and Farxiga, I guess the focus is probably more the US is the
question, and also the heart failure opportunity.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business `
Of course. First of all Emmanuel, I think we see a clear step up at least in the new to brand
prescriptions in the United States is now trending over 20% and that's a healthy growth, it's
similar to the level of the GLP-1 class. From a TRx perspective, we see now roughly a monthly
grow of moving to between 15% and 18% and it came from roughly 12%. So I think -- I am hopeful
that there is a clear revival of the overall clause of the SGLT2 based of course on the various
great data, and especially for Farxiga in DECLARE and also DAPA HF.
We have very substantial expectations for dapagliflozin forxiga and Farxiga in the United States,
and outside of the United States, because, first of all, I think DECLARE is showing the impact on
hospitalization for heart failure. In some European markets, we were able to promote Farxiga
already with the DECLARE label for quite some time, and we clearly see a positive impact in
those markets and we are hoping -- and we are expecting the same in the United States, so
that's one.
The second aspect specifically as to towards your heart failure question, and hopefully you agree
with me that the data we presented at the European Society for Cardiology was incredibly
impressive to our roughly 6 million patients in United States, suffering from heart failure .
And I think there the strength of the data is clearly that, as well as added on top of standard of
care, showing a 27% reduction in hospitalization for heart failure. So, there is an enormous
amount of interest from the physician base, from cardiologist, endocrinologists, particularly also
payers are very interested in this new finding because heart failure is a very big cost burden in
many healthcare institutes and hospitals in the United States.
So overall, we are very bullish about the prospects for Forxiga, it's a competitive space, but
equally the room to further grow in the diabetes and non-diabetes market is very substantial.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Ruud. Dave, do you want to cover the NRDL/Tagrisso question?
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business `
Yeah. So, just in terms of the NRDL on Tagrisso. We expect the same processes that we've gone
through thus far, which would have NRDL Tagrisso frontline decision coming in the second half of
next year, if the process continues on in the way that it has been. Obviously, we recently received
the frontline approval, and I think that kind of building on some of the comments that Leon had
made, before I think what's particularly noteworthy is that we know with the frontline FLAURA
data that twice the number of patients are available to benefit from Tagrisso that are in therelapse setting with durations of therapy that are 80% longer. So, I think also, we recognize that
for NRDL there is likely some price concessions that we would need to make, but at the same
time, there are some very real upsides associated with being able to bring this to the front-line
market.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Dave. So, the next question is by `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPMorgan. James, go ahead.
Q - `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hello. Thanks for taking the questions. First question would be on Imfinzi and the CC study, the
study has got three arms, and you an angle which is Imfinzi plus chemo and you also have the
triple therapy. What is the thinking about what the primary question, you're going to ask is,
because I the thinking have trended towards to a more like Merck (inaudible) as in you do chemo
combo a doublet versus chemo, then we recently saw Bristol's non-LA study that actually said
chemo induction, following IO, actually did look good. So, what is the first question you're going
to ask, or you're going to ask both questions in parallel?
Second question is a financial question for Marc. Gross margin, if I back out the impact of the
Lynparza profit takeway, and the positive mix benefit for Tagrisso, the COGS margin, in terms of
COGS as a proportion of product sales went back by 3 percentage points this quarter, (inaudible)
worse, is there any one-off there or is that the clean run rate going forward, and if so why has the
gross margin on an underlying basis deteriorated? And, If I could just squeeze in one more
clarification on Calquence. Is Calquence's commercial potential now definitively established,
hence the $2 billion outstanding payment, or is it still subject to some change depending what
happens with the ELEVATE R/R study in 2021? So the head-to-head versus Imbruvica, if that study
worked, and you do show your veto, what could the $2 billion go back up again, and what does
the $2 billion assume for that study.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you James. So, maybe we can start with the last two questions for Marc, I mean, just a
quick comment here on Calquence. I mean, basically what we have announced here is settled, I
mean, it's the final settlement. And also maybe, just to add something here because I read some
questions about the settlement and the potential for Calquence, and whether they were linked?
They are not linked, and we truly believe Calquence has enormous potential, the data we
presented and will present soon as ASH, we believe, very strong and we still believe in
tremendous potential Calquence will deliver. So, Marc do you want to cover the questions? And
then Jose Imfinzi/POSEIDON
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So James. First of all, the $2,072 million is basically the NPV of the payment that we have agreed
to make to the Acerta ex shareholders. It doesn't take into consideration the potential value or
projection of the product. This would be used to confirm the value of the assets on our balance
sheet. So what we were described -- what I was describing was the $2,072 million, which is on the
liability side of our balance sheet
To try and answer your question on cost of goods, the cost of good, as you will have seen is
above 80% year-to-date and this is a progress versus what we had expected. So, a slight
progress. Usually, the second part of the year has lower -- so has a higher cost of goods than the
first part of the year, due to the release of revaluation of inventories in the first half, when weintroduce our new standards. So, this is -- I would say usual pattern, and I wouldn't -- I would look
at the year-to-date cost of goods, year-to-date as a better indicator than the quarter three cost
of goods as an indicator.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Marc. Let me just add, again that we are very pleased with the resolution of all the
questions surrounding Calquence, whether they are relate to IP or whether they relate to the
acquisition itself, very pleased with putting a full and final end of settlement to this, number one.
Number two, very pleased with the spread of cash outlays that suddenly are very welcome from
cash flow viewpoint, as you would imagine. Jose, do you want to cover the POSEIDON question.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `
Absolutely. So, the POSEIDON question. The study has three arms as your just said, and basically
is Imfinzi plus chemo in one arm. Imfinzi plus stem plus chemo versus standard of care, which is
chemo and the both experimental arms are being compared to the standard of care.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you. So we move to the next question, Tim Anderson, Tim. Go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein and Company `
Thank you. The Calquence data coming up at ASH, (inaudible) and the academic community and
the frontline CLL that data is striking. And I think the trial that probably matters most to investors
as the head-to-head trial that reports out later. So, my question is this upcoming data in
December, even though it doesn't have imbruvica as a comparator, in your opinion, do you think it
will be enough to really kind of convince investors that you may in fact have a better product than
imbruvica, and can you remind us of your current thinking, in terms of whether it is better, is that
on both efficacy and safety or just safety? Consensus, I think struggles to believe that this product
could do damage to imbruvica just given the lead time that AbbVie has with the product. And
then a quick question on anifrolumab. You've got your data in hand now from the second trial,
your guidance is that you're not going to file it until second half of 2020. So, that's a year out.
That suggests you're needing to gather some sort of additional information before you file. Can
you just clarify what that might be?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Tim. So, I mean the first question I would usually give it to Jose, but `Susan Galbraith, Senior Vice President and Head of Research and Early Development, is
here with us, and I'll ask Susan to answer it because, it gives me a chance to thank and recognize
Susan for her leadership of this licensing effort a few years back. Of course, as always, there
were a number of issues that we had to address and questions are on the data, but we now have
the data. We have resolved all issues, and I think it will prove to be one of our best acquisitions.
So Susan, do you want to cover the question?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Senior Vice President and Head of Research and Early Development, `
Thank you Pascal, you're very kind. It's obviously a team effort, as ever. So, I do think the data is
going to be presented to ASH, are exciting and I think from the beginning what we've seen with
Calquence is because of the even cleaner profile that it's got, and because of the receptor
occupancy that you can drive, you're hitting the target harder. We believe both of these things
are underpinning the differentiated profile. You've seen that already with the data that wereinforce the activity of the molecule and the tolerability profile, both as monotherapy and in
combination. So, I look forward to sort of discussing the data in December.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business `
I mean, I think just to build on the question on, do we need the head-to-head study in order to be
able to have a best-in-class profile, we believe that the two studies that we are filing, give us an
opportunity to absolutely establish Calquence as the best in class BTKI, and we look forward to
the head-to-head results, but we are I think playing with a strong hand moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks. Mene, do you want to cover the anafrolimab?
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - `
Yes. The anafrolimab, so the second half finding is not a reflection of our excitement of the data
or the molecule, I think obviously with the original failed study, and now the positive, we've had to
re-gear ourselves into prioritizing the asset. Building the team. Obviously, we also have to have
the conversation with the regulators. So, the team I know are working as fast as they can, we're
going to try and bring those timelines broad as fast as we can as well, but I think it's prudent to
have it done in the second half, because ultimately, we're working through how fast we can do
this right now.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay, good. Thank you. `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley, Mark. Go ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah. Thank you. Pascal, I've got a question that with the call on cash from the Calquence
acquisition, pushed out of the staggered and where the continued strong performance in
emerging market's oncology and on the innovation delivery. How should we think about your
capacity to make targeted acquisitions, financed by raising debt, and cash generating
collaborative activities from your pipeline, which you mentioned in the press release.
I mean, am I seemingly more scrutinizing FTC influence your strategy for example in initiatives we
seek to strengthen an already strong position in area such as lung cancer and breast cancer.
That's my question.
But as Leon is on, I just wanted to ask a clarifier. Just removing reimbursement restrictions on
respiratory products act as a pre le to mandated price cuts or tender initiatives. I guess what
we're trying to guess what could be included next in procurements, which could be announced
November, but certainly should come through early part of 2020.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So before. Maybe Leon could cover this question, and Marc will cover the funding question, and
maybe Leon before you answer the specific question, I'd like to make a quick comment and then
you could also comment on this is, I mean, Mark, you were talking about the emerging markets,
and of course, the focus is very much on China, but I really would like also to recognize that our
growth in the emerging market is very broad based.We have growth in almost every single market outside of China. I mean, I was personally in Russia
earlier this week, and we have tremendous growth there. We have tremendous growth in Latin
America, in every region of the emerging markets. So, you know and China is of course very
important, but I also like to recognize the great work, our colleagues in the emerging markets
overall are doing around the world. Leon, do you, do you want to take the first question and --
sorry the China question and then Marc will cover the funding one.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice-President, International `
Yeah. I just like to add comments. I think emerging market also China has a huge potential, and
we are already started double -- strong double-digit growth in the third quarter. So, I think it's also
very hopeful. And the China NRDL, actually removing limitation is actually the quite -- other --
some progresses that we haven't mentioned is Brilinta 60 milligram also included in this round of
reimbursement and Pulmicort Symbicort removal of second line usage drug limitation.
And because they are already included into EDL, are the categories that the government would
like to encourage, and also even Nexium has been removing limitation. So, these are the
progress detail of NRDL announced already. And regarding 4+7, the first round is a solid products.
I think the first announced that is Iressa for us is the Iressa and the Crestor, and the second solid
products batch could be other out of patent solid products like GI products or Brilinta or I mean
these are all potential VVP [ph] products and injectables government is more cautious and
nebulized products also more cautious because a lot of nebulized products are used by pediatric
usage and device products like Symbicort are also more difficult to study, and they are more
protective we foresee. So, I think there will be batches where in China, the policy is not really
fixed, when to announce what and in what kind of regulation and how to implement.
So, we definitely will keep you updated on a quarterly basis.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Leon. Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So, thank you for the question. So regarding the issue of our cash management. When we
structure a deal, whether we sell or buy, we always try to defer payments, and maybe anticipate
receipt. So basically this was done in many of our recent equity product right acquisition. So, as
we were trying to find a resolution on Calquence, we saw an opportunity to defer the payments
to the excess to the shareholders, and we finalized this three payments covering 2022 to 2024,
but we tend to do it regularly and work every time, but at least it is present in our mind at every
deal.
Talking about the -- whether this deferral of payment will have an impact on our capital allocation
priorities, I just want to stress that our immediate priorities for 2020 and 2021 operating leverage
and the restoration of a good operating profit.
So, that's what we are going to work very hard on, and for the time being our capital allocation
priorities are unchanged, and we do consider bolt-on acquisition, but they have to be
immediately accretive, and obviously, they have to be strategically aligned with what, what we do.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Marc. So we'll try to go a little longer. We definitely appreciate or the interest you havethrough. So, the next one is `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn at Redburn. Simon, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thanks for taking my questions. Two quick ones.Firstly returning to POSEIDON, more for Jose, I
wondered if you could give us your perspectives on the CheckMate-9LA results and its relevance
to and differences from the POSEIDON study. And then a quick one for Marc, I was wondering, if
you could just give a little bit more clarity on the higher-than-expected tax rate in Q3, and
thoughts for the tax rate in period beyond 2019 into 2020. Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Simon. Jose, do you want to?
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `
So, Simon. We are pleased by the data that we have seen, because it does show that there is
activity with the combination of PD-1-CTLA4 inhibitors. However, as you know to do cross study
comparisons is incredibly challenging. So, at this point, we just need to wait for our data. I would
not be able to make any kind of speculation.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yes, on the tax rate, what I can say that, and we have noticed this several time, we need to avoid
looking at to quarter-to-quarter variation, because this is where it becomes relatively volatile, so I
recommend that you look at the year-to-date numbers to form a view on the tax rate for the year
or for coming years. You obviously know that the big impact for our tax rates is a geographic mix
as well as the product mix, the type of deal, when we enter into a structured deal, but also the
evolution of various tax legislations that can take place.
So, when you look at the tax rate, you need to -- we need to trickle out the one-off part from the
recurring part. And if we look at the numbers for the quarter three at 23%. This is, I would say on
the high side, it's outside of the range we had guided for, which was 18% to 22%. The year to that
rate is 21.7%, so I believe this rate is probably more aligned with what you will see at the end of
the year.
So, and this is why we are narrowing the range to -- for the full year at 20% to 22%. Going
forward, I mean I would prefer to wait a little bit for some clarification on legislations, which are
moving in the next few months from some countries, and then we will be able to give you a more
precise number or range, maybe next year or in February.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Marc. So, there is a question online from (inaudible). I read the question. Can you
please share some high-level thoughts on the design of monalizumab Phase III trials with tumors
settings line, combination partners and also particular interest in colorectal cancer, which seems
to be turning into a competitive area, again, I believe you said during your ASCO call, you had
developed the molecule to potentiate responses in IO sensitive tumors. Is that also the plan for
Phase III, and in which tumor settings? So, Jose do you want to cover this one?
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - Oncology `
Yeah. So, [ph] Marietta thank you very much. So in monalizumab, what we have launched is a
Phase III registration study following our very strong (inaudible) data, we are a little bit ahead inkind of in colorectal, so that's going to be a study in combination with rituximab in patients that
have being exposed prior to immune --to IO. In colorectal, we have very nice data, but we have
not yet been at the decision point to launch a Phase III. We are just waiting for some additional
data before we commit.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you Jose. So the next question is from (inaudible). Eric [ph], go ahead.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes hello. Thank you. Two finance related questions, first of all, on the one-offs included in the
quarter, on some of the products, including Tagrisso. Could you maybe quantify how much that
represented, either in growth or in sales for the overall portfolio and the performance in the
quarter, and maybe mention, beyond Tagrisso which products were mainly impacted. And the
second question relates to the -- let's say, other operating income line, as we get into 2019, the
guidance was together with alliance revenues to have both going down, and now we're well into
the fourth quarter. So, I guess you have a precise ID when where those two lines may land for the
year, so maybe you can narrow a little bit. This guidance, how much for instance, do you need for
other operating income to get into the core EPS guidance or otherwise said, are you comfortable
with the consensus that says that $400 million to $500 million more in Q4 may be needed?
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you [ph] Eric, so the -- I think the first question we already answered right. You saw our
sales in the quarter grow 18% and I think we said that the one-off effects movements of inventory
was about 1% to 2%. So without those growth rates would have been 16% to 17%, so still sort of
similar range, of course right. Marc, do you want to cover the second one?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. I will try. Thank you very much for the question. So, first of all, you have to differentiate
collaboration revenues from disposal or other income. For the line, collaboration revenues you --
we are at -- we are in the course of the year. Is this is still going to increase substantially, because
we have still have. We hope to get which you've milestones from the Merck and others in the
remaining part of the year, as far as other income you have seen most of it. There is still some
deals which are being discussed and negotiated, but I think most of it has already been made
visible, so there may be a little bit more on other income. But there will be a substantial increase
on the collaboration revenue.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Marc.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Overall, as we have said, sorry Pascal, overall as we have said many times, it will reduce versus
2018.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you. Okay. Next one is from Dominic Lunn, Credit Suisse, Dominic. Go ahead.Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse AG `
It's actually `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse AG and I'd like to go back Pascal to the business outside of China, and the
growth rates there. We talk a lot about China, we talk a lot about the US, you've already
highlighted ex-China local currency growth was 15% in the quarter Established Rest of the World,
19%.
I wonder, if you could tell us a little bit about how sustainable that is going forwards? We noticed
really old cancer drugs like Zoladex which for years were declining, and are now growing strongly
again. Is this something that you can sustain over more than one year or so? And the second
question for Marc. If I could you've said that you're going to have over 30% margin beyond 2020;
given the business mix that you have today in terms of your emerging markets business, your
primary care business, your specialty business, could you tell us what would be a reasonable
objective for an operating margin. Let's say out in 2023-2024 that we should be looking at. Many
thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Jo. So I'll just a quick couple of comments again and I'll ask Leon to give more
specifics on the emerging markets as a whole. But, as I said a minute ago the -- our growth
outside China, it is very strong and in fact the growth rate in the first two quarters was probably a
little bit misleading because we had the negative effect of divestments.
The divestments that we did last year impacted the emerging markets in the first half, and Q3 is
a better reflection of the ongoing growth rate in those emerging markets because, the effect of
the divestments is disappearing in Q3. So, very strong base, as I said, I mean I was in Russia early
this week, I was privileged enough to meet the Prime minister Medvedev for the third time, and
we are very committed to Russia. We're very, very well appreciated there. I could say the same of
many other countries around the world, in Brazil, in many countries, we are investing and then
committed to growth in those countries, so Leon, do you want to give more specifics about
Zoladex and how we see growth moving forward in those countries.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice-President, International `
Yeah. Like Pascal already outlined, actually if you removing divestment organic growth, outside
China emerging market already start double digit since late last year and the first half of this year
because of divestment of these product. So, we are also double-digit in the first half of this year,
and the third quarter actually is even higher. So, I think it's sustainable, because we see growth
not only from one country -- from Russia from Asia, from Korea, Singapore, Vietnam from many
emerging market Egypt, Turkey, Argentina, Brazil, so we have two thirds of the emerging market
grow in double-digit and most of the markets growing single high-digit.
So, I think this is a quite phenomenal, and I think it will not grow as fast as the current growth rate
in China, but I think the current speed can be maintained and can even grow faster in the quarters
to come.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Leon, Marc.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `Yes. So Jo, thank you for the question. You have seen earlier in the presentation that we are
presently promoting our 14 blockbuster, some of them already well advanced, some of them are
at the launching phase, some still need to be launched. So, we have in front of us still enormous
task of promoting these products.
Regarding the operating margin, so our primary objective is to grow above the 30% threshold
and we are doing all we can, while promoting our products to get above the 30% margin. We
have also said many times that we want to remain, a globally present company balance on
specialty care as well as primary care. So we have also said that we will not, probably not reach
40% level margin.
So, it will be somewhere between 30% and 40% it's not a very precise target, but I don't want to
-- you to forget that it will also depend on the number of products that we have to launch to
remain on the growth trajectory that we ambition for ourselves. So, it's very dependent on the
product that we have to launch.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Marc. Next question is from `Sam Fazeli, Analyst, Bloomberg at Bloomberg. Sam, go ahead.
Q - `Sam Fazeli, Analyst, Bloomberg `
Thank you very much for taking my questions, and for the longer duration of the call. Just on
ibrutinib or Calquence obviously this is -- talking to investors as we are speaking here, it's very
bullish view that you're putting forward of the data that we're expecting at ASH. There is
obviously -- there's another complication that's coming into the competitive environment, and
that's the combination with venetoclax in with imbruvica. So, how do you see your Calquence
being positioned in the market, as that part of the -- as that combination evolves. And then, if I
may a separate question on for (inaudible) you've addressed quite a lot of aspects of this but
when should we actually expect to see prescription volumes turning in the US with the label that
you've got now, and just even putting aside the non-diabetic heart failure potential, the current
label. Should we expect to see some change in that in the next quarter Q4 or Q1, just a little bit
hint as to when we should expect some revival that please. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Sam. So maybe, Ruud you could answer the first question, the venetoclax your question.
Just as a reminder Sam we in the US just got the so-called declare labor approved, so we have
not even started promoting. Maybe Ruud will give you some insight or what is happening in
Europe as a guide to what could happen in the US?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business `
Yeah. So, very quickly and thanks for the question. So we are expecting, let's say, the first positive
uptick in quarter one next year, we just got the label. We are going to train our field force as we
speak, and normally it takes a couple of weeks in order to see the first impact, but the reactions
of the physicians are very positive. So, stay tuned and we will see how we will navigate through it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. As far as Europe, maybe you want to say a couple of words on Germany for...
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President and President, BioPharmaceuticals Business `Yeah. And so, we have seen in Germany was in fact, the first country where we were able to
launch the DECLARE study and relatively soon, a couple of weeks after, starting to promote we
saw very clear uptick in the market share of Farxiga in Germany. So, that's clearly a positive signal,
which we're using also towards the other countries which are in the phase of launching this label.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you. And the Calquence question, the confirmation of venetoclax and the significance of
those data, maybe Susan, Dave, you want to comment?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Senior Vice President and Head of Research and Early Development, `
Yes, sure. So I think the first point to make is CLL is a disease of the elderly, and so a large
proportion of patients are treated by community oncologists, and so the attraction of the well-
tolerated monotherapy is significant in that patient population for an oral drug. Obviously, for the
younger patients who are diagnosed well below that median age of diagnosis, a time limited
regimen has some attractions, but it does have a significant and different tolerability burden near
term, so it needs to be managed more carefully in more specialist centers, and it requires regular
attendance at clinics, so that's the balance that you have. We are, of course, looking at the
combination with venetoclax as well ourselves, and what we see is an evolving marketplace that
will enable patients have different choices available to them. Dave, do you want to make another
comment?
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President Oncology Business `
Susan, the only thing that I would add to that, as I think that what we've seen from an uptake
perspective, following the venetoclax data with the finite treatment, there's more uptake in the
relapsed-refractory setting, than in the frontline setting. And so I think that, that's a dynamic that
we continue to watch, but bodes well for the opportunity for BTKI monotherapy as Susan said, in
the frontline.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks Dave. So we wanted to give a bit more time to address your questions and your interest.
But we also have to be respectful of your time and finish, we want to finish by 1.45. So, we'll take
the last question `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies, Jefferies. Peter. Go ahead.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks for squeezing me in, just quick ones. Firstly, just on the priority review just wanted to
confirm the voucher that hasn't been used yet, and also just with regards to the timing spend
with regards to roxadustat, just whether or not that filing is being controlled by FibroGen and
whether or not that could be used for that. And then just regards to the pipeline, I mean clearly,
obviously the pipeline is getting bigger and bigger every quarter it seems, at what point in time,
do we need to think about Astra having to prioritize either therapeutic areas assets to a greater
extent, and perhaps out licensing to constrain the OpEx and reach the margin objectives, you've
outlined.
Are we getting to that stage yet or are there significantly big trials that are winding down, leaving
room for you within the R&D budget to continue developing the pipeline at the pace we've seen
over the past few quarters? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Thank you Peter. So I'll ask a Mene to cover maybe the roxa timing question, let me just address
your first question, the PRV is a simple question -- answer, sorry because the voucher hasn't been
used. We will not comment on what we will use it for, but it hasn't been used, and I'll just make a
quick comment before Mene addresses the roxa question and comment on the pipeline.
We actually prioritize our pipeline, the cost of totality of the company, across all projects, not by
TA, but across all projects. So, we have a committee that prioritize them, and frankly we are
prioritizing almost every day, and of course here the challenge we have, which is a good
challenge is we have lots, lots of good projects. So, it is not always easy, but we do prioritize
every day.
And the last point I would make is that, as Marc explained a minute ago, our goal is really to drive
operating leverage and get to higher levels of operating margins for the top line growth, of
course, we're managing expenses, and we have many, many productivity improvement programs
in place. We use digital, tools, et cetera, et cetera, but our number one focus is delivering the
pipeline and growing the top line, so we can deliver our operating leverage.
Mene, do you want to cover the roxa question?
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President & President of Research & Development - `
Yes. Just to highlight that the US filing is very much a partnership with the FibroGen, we're doing it
collaboratively together. They're in the driving seat and the timing continues to be before the end
of the year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Very good. So, Thomas is giving me the signal. We are just on finishing -- we are on time. So,
thank you so much for all your interest and just in close, I would just repeat that we're very much
on track with what we said we would do. We are driving top line growth right now, we are going
to focus on operating leverage, and generate additional cash flow to return to covering the
dividend as quickly as we can, of course. But again, our focus is really driving growth. We want to
be a growth company. We have a tremendous pipeline we prioritize for sure, but we will continue
investing where we have opportunities, whether it's in the pipeline or geographically. Thank you
so much, and I wish you a good rest of the day.