Q3 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Shigeki Tomoyama, Executive Vice President
Unverified Participant
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Unverified Participant
Now I would like to discuss our Financial Results for the First Nine Months to December 2018.
Compared with the first nine months of the previous fiscal year, consolidated vehicle sales
increased by 23,000 units to 6,701,000 units. This was the result of solid sales mainly in Asia.
Consolidated financial results for the first nine months of this fiscal year were net revenues of
¥22.4755 trillion, operating income of ¥1.9379 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥1.7257 trillion, and net
income of ¥1.4233 trillion.
While both net revenues and operating income increased, net income decreased by ¥589.8
billion year-on-year. This is largely due to the fact, as shown on the bottom of the slide under
item 3, that net income of the same period of the previous fiscal year includes a positive impact
of ¥291.9 billion due to the U.S. Tax Reform and that net income of the first nine months of this
fiscal year includes a negative impact of ¥310 billion of unrealized gains and losses on securities
due to the market duration during this fiscal year.
Furthermore, if I may add some comments on the unrealized gains and losses on equity
securities, Toyota uses U.S. GAAP as of today. Starting in the current fiscal year in line with the
revised U.S. GAAP, we've recorded in profit and loss statement the mark-to-market values of
equities we hold other than those of subsidiaries and affiliated companies. This represents a
valuation losses based on the equity market value as of the end of December 2018.
If I may just explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. Firstly, the effect
of foreign exchange rates increased operating income by ¥10 billion. Secondly, cost-reduction
efforts increased operating income by ¥10 billion, as the impact of cost-reduction efforts
exceeded the increase in raw material costs. Thirdly, marketing efforts increased operating
income by ¥210 billion due to improved product mix in North America, Asia and Europe, as well as
improved profitability in financial services. Finally, expenses decreased operating income by ¥10
billion due to an increase of labor costs mainly in Japan and Central and South America. As a
result, excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rates, swap valuation gains and losses
and other factors, operating income improved by ¥210 billion year-on-year.
Next, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region going from the left-hand side
to the right-hand side on this slide. In Japan, vehicle sales decreased by 44,000 units to 1.595
million units due to the diminished effects of new models. Operating income was up ¥131.3 billion
year-on-year to ¥1.2442 trillion due to cost-reduction efforts and marketing efforts.
In North America, vehicle sales were down 41,000 units year-on-year to 2.091 million units as a
result of the temporary impact of the preparation for RAV4 and Corolla switchovers. Operating
income was ¥163.7 billion, down ¥4.4 billion compared with the first nine months of the previous
fiscal year. As for sales incentives, we are controlling them more adequately by efficiently
allocating them to key models.In Europe, vehicle sales grew by 19,000 units year-on-year to 725,000 units, driven by hybrid
vehicles such as the C-HR HV. Operating income was up ¥24.5 billion year-on-year to ¥87 billion.
This mainly results from marketing efforts and the reduction in expenses.
In Asia, vehicle sales were up 127,000 units year-on-year to 1.275 million units on the back of solid
sales in Thailand, China and India. Operating income was up ¥59.9 billion year-on-year to ¥395
billion, mostly as a result of marketing efforts, including an increase in vehicle sales.
In other regions, overall vehicle sales were down 38,000 units year-on-year to 1.015 million units,
mainly due to a decrease in vehicle sales in the Near and Middle East. Operating income
decreased by ¥21.6 billion year-on-year to ¥84.3 billion. This was largely due to depreciation of
local currencies and an increase in raw material costs.
Next, I would like to talk about the operating income of Financial Services. Operating income,
excluding swap valuation gains and losses, for the first nine months of this fiscal year was up ¥43.1
billion year-on-year to ¥263.8 billion. This is mainly due to an increase in the lending balance and
the decrease in costs related to residual value losses.
Now, I would like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year ending March 2019. First
with regard to our consolidated vehicle sales, we have increased our forecast at the time of Q2
results by 50,000 units to 8.95 million units. As described at the bottom of the slide, we have
also increased our forecast of retail vehicle sales at the time of Q2 results by 50,000 units to
10.55 million units.
We have adopted forex rate assumptions for January onwards of ¥105 per dollar and ¥125 per
euro as well as full-year assumptions of ¥110 per dollar and ¥128 per euro. Based on this, our
forecasts for full-year consolidated financial performance are net revenue of ¥29.5 trillion,
operating income of ¥2.40 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥2.20 trillion and net income of ¥1.87 trillion.
Please note that with the impact of unrealized gains and losses on the equity securities, we have
used the same amount as the actual losses in the first nine months of the fiscal year.
Please see the next slide. First, we anticipate there will be a ¥10 billion positive effect relating to
forex rates and the ¥20 billion negative impact relating to cost-reduction efforts. Secondly, we
estimate that the effects of marketing efforts will have a positive impact on operating income of
¥85 billion, mainly due to increased vehicle sales in Japan and Europe, as well as improved
profitability in Financial Services. Finally, expenses are expected to have increased by ¥65 billion,
largely as a result of increased labor costs and expenses. As a consequence, we maintain our
operating income forecast at ¥2.400 trillion which is what we have forecasted at the time of Q2
results.
Now, this one compares the latest operating income forecast for this fiscal year with result of the
previous fiscal year compared year-on-year. Operating income is expected to increase by ¥200
million, maintaining our operating income forecast at the time of Q2 results. As I mentioned
earlier, excluding the overall impact of forex rate and swap valuation gains and losses, operating
income is expected to be up ¥135 billion year-on-year due to cost-reduction efforts, marketing
efforts. As for the cost-reduction and fixed cost-reduction activities, we are steadily making
progress towards achieving our challenge level target. In order to achieve this, we will follow
through with our activities.
Now I'd like to turn to the Executive Vice President, Shigeki Tomoyama, who will explain our
Strategy of Connected and MaaS, which we are engaging as activities enhancing competitiveness
and sustainable development.Shigeki Tomoyama `
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am Shigeki Tomoyama of Toyota Motor Corporation
under Toyota's Connected and MaaS Strategy. I'm in charge of Connected Strategy, the new
business, as well as Motorsports.
Two years ago, at the end of 2016, Toyota announced its Connected Strategy comprised of
three arrows, namely build mobility services platform, MSPF; and secondly, use of big data using
that as a foundation; and also creating new mobility services.
MSPF can be called a contact point between cars and external sources. With MSPF, Toyota takes
responsibility to safely and securely manage the collection and management of data
transmissions and big data between vehicles and external sources. Service companies such as
ride sharing, car sharing and insurance companies are also able to offer services to Toyota and
Lexus vehicles via MSPF.
The Toyota's Connected Strategy has three faces, namely defense, kaizen and offense. In
defense, we will establish a long-term relationship of trust with customers and secure and
expand the existing value chain. Through kaizen, we aim for rapid improvements in productivity,
quality and lead time by changing existing work habits. Via offense, we have an eye toward
creating new value for cars and a new mobility business.
Key defense measures in our Connected Strategy include e-Care services and a health check
services. Dealers and call center both enabled by vehicle data allow provision of timely after-sales
services,. Delivering a secure life with cars to customers, we hope to increase the number of
service visit to dealers and improve the replacement rate of Toyota and Lexus vehicles moving
forward.
The main kaizen measure in our Connected Strategy is early detection and early resolution or
EDER based on vehicle data. By constantly collecting vehicle data, we can detect market defects
at an early stage and identify target vehicles. As a result, market actions can be taken faster and
more efficiently reducing costs.
Onboard software updates by OTA, which stands for Over The Air, are currently limited to
updates of navigation-related software. From 2020, OTA software updates will become possible
for certain ECU-controlled software. With OTA, automobile software can be kept constantly up
to-date, reducing costs significantly compared to part replacement by visiting dealers.
Offense measures, in our Connected Strategy, focus on the creation of a new value for vehicles
and the creation of a new mobility business. The Agent system represents new value creation.
This Cloud AI virtual assistant enables cars to talk to and communicate with users. Currently,
Agent 1.0 is in commercial use allowing users to control the navigation system and air conditioning
system by talking to Agent. We plan to launch a more advanced Agent 2.0 in or after 2020.
Creating a new mobility business represented to AT by Mobility as a Service or MaaS is a new
growth field for us and our transformation from a car company into a mobility company. There are
three approaches in Toyota's MaaS Strategy. The first involves collaborating with the leading
regional MaaS players such as Uber, Grab and DiDi. And the second, Toyota plays the main role in
the MaaS business. And the third, Toyota dealers are the main business entity in the MaaS
business. The approach to be used is tailored to each region. In all approaches, we recognize
that it is important for Toyota to provide a value chain, including in cars, that themselves are a
means of transportation as well as related maintenance, insurance, leasing and more.So this is a collaboration scheme with MaaS players of provision of a value chain. It's also an
essential element in tie-ups with MaaS players. Toyota has developed the Total-care Service for
ride-hailing vehicles. The Total-care Service allows Toyota dealers, insurance companies and
regional ride-hailing companies to share vehicle data via MSPF. Vehicle management and
insurance, maintenance are all covered through shared vehicle data via MSPF as the first step
pre-rolled out a service to 1,500 vehicles owned by Grab Singapore.
So we have implemented the improvement of the TPS and then this collaboration entails
Intensive Care Stall, ICS, and then exclusively for Grab vehicles have been installed with Toyota
dealers and they aim to improve the operating rates of vehicles and reduce maintenance cost,
Toyota and Grab plan to expand this service to all Grab vehicles throughout Southeast Asia. At
the same time, we aim to increase Toyota's share of Grab rental vehicles in Southeast Asia by
25% by 2020, representing a maximum 80% of the Grab rental vehicles.
In Japan, we have already deployed a leasing service aimed at fleet customers, whereby a lease
is added to the Total-care Service that I mentioned earlier, a new car leasing business for a
business called KINTO will be launched from this month. The Toyota Share car-sharing service
that allows cars to be locked and unlocked through smartphones made its debut last month. In
the U.S., a similar car-sharing service in which Toyota dealers are the main business entity
launched in Hawaii last year with the deployment throughout North America scheduled in MaaS
currently existing passenger vehicles, useful vehicle dispatch services. However, we believe
MaaS-dedicated vehicles will become necessary based upon their own characteristics.
But now there will be MaaS-dedicated vehicle lineups shown here. The e-Palette on the left of this
table was unveiled at CES last year and is scheduled to be revealed during the Tokyo 2020
Olympic Games. We also think more compact lineups are necessary. The vehicle in the middle of
the table is Sienna-based MaaS vehicle, while the vehicle on the right is much smaller, a compact
BEV-based vehicle. Our plan is to meet a wide variety of needs within these three lineups.
Linked to the future automated driving mobility services. As to the Level 4, the autonomous
driving vehicles, when it will become available or not, it depends upon the technology and cost
factors. The consensus need to be built, so that it's very difficult to forecast that as well. So
therefore, as a basis, the Level 2, Level 3, the mass-produced vehicles will be used, and then the
Autonomous Driving Kit will be added. Then, it will become the Level 4 MaaS-dedicated vehicle.
So that is a concept to commercialize this system or the vehicle.
So Autonomous Driving software to be installed on in ADKs can be developed by the third-party
companies, but we aim to increase overall vehicle safety through dual-monitoring of the
surrounding environment by Toyota's Guardian System on the vehicle in concert with
Autonomous Driving software. And our development is promoted by standardizing the interface
between ADK and the vehicles and generalizing the control unit, including Guardian System to
expand the use of the application.
To realize these MaaS strategies, Toyota has been promoting collaboration with the key MaaS
players, including Grab that I mentioned earlier, and a joint venture in which SoftBank is the largest
shareholder. And together with Uber in North America, we have been working on the
development of an autonomous driving MaaS fleet based on the Sienna platform and so on and
so forth. But together with SoftBank, Toyota has established a joint venture, MONET
Technologies, and MONET conduct service planning, sales, vehicle and leasing and third-party
operation aiming to popularize MaaS vehicles in lower public areas and local public agencies that
support senior citizens mobility.And so that we are talking about these cars are significantly evolving due to the technical
innovation such as the electrification, intelligence, informatization. We anticipate the realization of
an autonomous driving mobility society. However, just using AI and developing advanced software
doesn't lead to the popularization of autonomous driving mobility.
The car itself is the bundle of advanced hardware and software and cars are industrial products
that are on a learning curve. At the same time, cars are the means of transportation with which
the lives of people are entrusted. To mass produce such cars at sufficient quality and appropriate
cost, provide maintenance in a timely manner and popularize such cars as a safe transportation
service, we understand that it is important for us to further hone our real-world strengths,
including our long cultivated Toyota Production System, TPS, our real-world expertise, technology
and assets, including our service network.
Toyota efforts to transform itself into a mobility company has just started with connected cars and
a MaaS business. We would like to contribute to the realization of a mobility society in which
everyone can move safely, smoothly and freely.
Thank you for your attention.