Q3 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the UK and the US. Good afternoon to those in Central
Europe. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen to AstraZeneca's Year-To-Date Presentation
Conference Call and Webcast for investors and analysts. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I
would like to read the Safe Harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties and may be influenced by factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements. Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and
information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update
forward-looking statements.
Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the slide deck that
accompanies this presentation and webcast. (Technical difficulty) an opportunity to ask questions
after today's presentations.(Operator Instructions)
And with that, I will now hand you over to the Company.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, everyone. It's `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer of AstraZeneca. Welcome to the Year-
To-Date and Third Quarter 2020 Conference Call and our Webcast for investors and analysts. As
usual, the presentation was posted to astrazeneca.com earlier today, and we've also sent it to
people on our distribution list.
So if you can please turn to slide 2. This is the usual Safe Harbor statement. We will be making
comments on our performance using constant exchange rates or CER, core financial numbers,
and other non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP data is contained
in the results announcement. All numbers used are in million US dollars and refer to year to date
September 2020 unless we state otherwise.
So starting to -- turning to slide 3. We plan to review the presentation first and then do the Q&A
until 1:15 PM UK time. You should keep questions short. We will try to keep answers short too.
(Operator Instructions)
There is also an option to ask questions as part of the webcast, we ask you to please ask one
question only. Thanks for the help here. And in speaking order, I'm joined by Dave Fredrickson,
Executive Vice President and -- of the Oncology Business Unit; `Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit, Executive Vice
President of BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit; `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director and Chief
Financial Officer; Mene Pangalos who is Executive Vice President of the BioPharmaceuticals R&D
Group; and `Jose Baselga, EVP, Oncology Research & Development who is Executive Vice President of Oncology R&D. For the questions
later, we also have `Pam Cheng, Executive Vice President, Operations and Information Technology, Executive Vice President of Operations and Information
Technology and `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International and China President, who is the Executive Vice President for the China and emerging
markets.
Please turn to slide 4. This is the agenda where we plan to cover all key aspects of our results
today. So if we now start read slide 5. In the first nine months of 2020, our performance
remained strong and resilient despite some impact from the COVID-19 pandemic and our
business performed in line with our expectations. Our total revenue (technical difficulty) 10% in the
year-to-date despite some headwinds from the pandemic. New medicines were up 36%, and we
saw continued performance across core therapy areas in emerging markets. We had a substantial
negative impact from Pulmicort that is -- that affected Respiratory, Immunology results in
particular in China and in China, the negative -- it was negative by around 15% in this case. But one
can see strong growth excluding this. [ph]Cooperating profit grew by 13%, despite 15% lower
other operating income, with a tax rate of 21% core EPS under the $2.95 and it is up by 16% more
than revenue, delivering operating leverage. As a result, guidance remains unchanged today.
We continue to see strong progress in the pipeline, mostly on (inaudible) sales today and
tomorrow. Next year we are back with many Phase 3 trial readouts after the regulatory focus this
year following extensive data readout in 2019. The efforts against the COVID-19 pandemic
include advancing the vaccine candidates and now importantly initiating Phase 3 trials for our
long-acting antibody combination which is incredibly promising in the -- it's a potential new
medicine called AZD7442.
And please turn to slide 6. Looking at the pipeline news flow since the result announcement in
July, a few new highlights. There were a number of approvals for the [ph]key cancer medicinesacross users and geographies. We made regulatory submissions for a number of new users for
leading medicines and we obtained [ph]several criteria reviews. As I mentioned earlier, 2020 has
seen a lots of regulatory news flow, while we anticipate more new Phase 3 data readouts
(technical difficulty) 2021. Jose will detail this news flow a little later. All in all, another great period
for the pipeline and only this week and including this morning, we received additional approvals
for some of our new indications. So very exciting pipeline progression.
We start to -- turn to slide 7. (Inaudible) headline in the pipeline, we now take a deeper dive into
our revenue. Total revenue advanced by 3% in the third quarter with growth reduced by Lynparza
milestones in the comparative period. In the quarter if you exclude the milestones, our sales
growth was 7%. And in fact, as I mentioned earlier, Pulmicort was the most affected product by
(technical difficulty) especially in China that affected the number of (inaudible) and therefore the
sales were substantially impacted. If you exclude the effect of Pulmicort, our sales growth was
about 10%. So the message is the underlying sales growth is still very, very strong across the
portfolio and actually reflects the strength of our model, the diversified portfolio, and the
diversified geographical footprint. We have ups and downs and we'll cover them across this
presentation. Some products have ups and others are down, but we have a very resilient
portfolio across.
As I mentioned earlier, there was some impact from COVID-19 and (inaudible) Pulmicort China of
course, but also (technical difficulty) Brilinta in all regions. We've seen (technical difficulty) number
of hospitalizations for heart attacks and Brilinta is initiated in hospital, so we've seen an impact
there. And it also affected infusion (technical difficulty) medicines like Imfinzi and Fasenra. Despite
this, new medicines are the $2.6 billion of additional revenue year-to-date with Tagrisso, Imfinzi,
and Lynparza as the biggest contributors, followed by Farxiga, Calquence, and Fasenra. In
particular Calquence is making very rapid progress. We now have certain new medicines
contributing growth and I think further diversification to the revenue as we look ahead.
If we turn to slide 8. If we aggregate the medicines into therapy areas, we had solid double-digit
growth for Oncology and new CVRM with Respiratory and Immunology seeing the impact from
Pulmicort. Excluding the Pulmicort, there was, as I said earlier, (technical difficulty) double-digit
growth there of about 10%, so very strong. From a regional viewpoint (technical difficulty)
everywhere with Europe impacted by the timing of Lynparza milestones, which I mentioned
earlier, there's strong sales growth excluding the milestone, which we expect to come in Q4.
In summary, the results year-to-date support the guidance and also a future sustainable growth
across medicines and geographical markets. With our global revenue base and our diversified
portfolio of new medicines, AstraZeneca is well strategically positioned in the current
environment and we are ready to be a (inaudible) when needed as we have shown with the effort
against COVID-19. We want to remain a trusted collaborator for global healthcare system. Before
I hand over to Dave to go into details on Oncology business, I would like to say how grateful I am
for the support and hard work from the more than 75,000 colleagues around the world, and I
would like to thank everyone for their efforts in the current situation, fighting the various -- the
virus. As I said earlier, we've had some impact from COVID on some of our medicines, the
biggest impact is Pulmicort. But we see strong resilience across the portfolio. And importantly, as
you will hear in the -- in -- during the call, we see a return to normality for Pulmicort in China. It's a
slow but steady return to normality. So for Q4, we still expect challenges headwinds, but going
into next year the picture (technical difficulty) looks certainly better and we also hope and -- that
the trend we see in terms of cancer diagnosis that is improving will also play well for us into next
year. So with this, please -- Dave go ahead and please turn to slide 9.
`David Fredrickson, EVP, Oncology Business Unit `Thank you. Pascal. We are pleased to report a strong growth in total revenue of 24% for
Oncology to $8.2 billion year-to-date. While we did see continued impact in the quarter from
fewer patients diagnosed due to COVID, we are seeing nice robustness of our business as sales
grew across all of our Oncology new brands and this came from regional expansions and new
launches.
Please turn to slide 10. Starting with our lung cancer franchise, we're pleased to report that both
Tagrisso and Imfinzi showed strong growth in the quarter year-to-date at 39% and 43%
respectively, with revenue of $3.2 billion and $1.5 billion respectively. Tagrisso continues its global
rollout and is now approved in 87 countries in the first line setting and we saw continued
expansion in countries with national reimbursement, which now totals 32. US Tagrisso revenue
was up 26% where we saw continued single digit demand growth and also benefited from a one-
off gross-to-net adjustment in the quarter. The majority of Imfinzi revenue continued to come
from the US as the launch of the CASPIAN Indication in extensive stage small cell lung cancer has
really begun to take effect despite [ph]headwinds from COVID-19 on patient diagnosis.
Outside of the US, we're starting to see the revenue of Imfinzi pick up, particularly in Europe and
the emerging markets as we continue to roll-out with more approvals granted. We await the
CASPIAN Indication to drive further growth outside of the US, where the ability to combine with
both cisplatin and carboplatin represents further benefit for patients. For both medicines, we
anticipate that if the China NRDL negotiations are reached, we could have the usual sales impact
towards the end of the year as we would then look to provide access to a greater proportion of
patients. But right now, we can't say what that outcome will be.
Please turn now to slide 11. On Lynparza showed continued progress with product sales up by
53%, with about half of sales coming from outside the US. This reflected growth across all
regions as we continue to roll-out the breast and ovarian cancer indications in the major markets
of the US, in Europe, and Japan. Total revenue was impacted by the phasing of milestone
payments from Merck with further milestones anticipated in quarter four of this year. US sales
continue to grow by 46% with continued increase in demand as Lynparza maintained it's
leadership in the PARP inhibitor market in both ovarian and breast cancer as we launched the
PAOLA-1 indication in first-line HRD positive ovarian cancer and the profound prostate cancer
indication.
Europe sales were up by 51%, driven primarily by first-line ovarian cancer launches as we now look
forward to the ovarian PAOLA and prostate launches in Europe following the approvals that we
announced earlier this morning. Emerging market sales were up by 105% driven by the China
launch and the recent inclusion on the NRDL. Japan sales amounted to $119 million with growth of
30% driven by uptake in ovarian and breast cancers.
Please turn to slide 12. Turning now to our more recent launches, Calquence in chronic
lymphocytic leukemia and in HER2 and third line HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. I'm very
pleased to report Calquence revenue of $340 million in a year-to-date, predominantly coming
from the US where the new approval in CLL took effect at the end of 2019. The launch feedback
is very encouraging as the very impressive Phase 3 data are resonating well with physicians.
We're encouraged to see expansion in our prescriber base with Calquence now achieving over
35% of new patient starts across all lines in CLL. We await the regulatory decision imminently
following the positive CHMP recommendation earlier this year. Following the Enhertu launch at the
beginning of the year, we're pleased to report [ph]$63 million in collaboration revenue based on
$136 million of US sales booked by Daiichi Sankyo in the year-to-date. Enhertu is now the most
prescribed medicine in the third line and fourth line settings of HER2 positive metastatic breast
cancer.Before I end. I want to thank all of our Oncology colleagues for what they do every day to the
benefit of patients and to our Company, especially during the ongoing global pandemic. I'll now
turn it over to Ruud for an update on our BioPharmaceuticals business and emerging markets.
Please turn to slide 13.
`Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Many thanks Dave. Today I'm very pleased to talk to you about the BioPharmaceutical business.
Total revenue of BioPharma comprising New Cardiovascular, Renal, Metabolism, and Respiratory
and Immunology was $7.3 billion in the year-to-date, growing at 5% despite the COVID pandemic.
Starting with New CVRM, revenue was up by 10% despite intense competition in diabetes with
total revenue at $3.5 billion. Growth for both Farxiga and Brilinta continues.
Farxiga maintains volume market share globally with strong volume growth across all regions,
while benefiting from the SGLT2 class growth. In the United States, Farxiga saw a reduction of 3%
as price declines took effect, though volumes continued to grow due to the heart failure launch
and in the quarter sales were up by 18%. Outside the US, which accounts for 72% of revenue we
saw strong [ph]performances with volume driven growth increasing and China benefit --
benefiting from the NRDL listing. Brilinta delivered revenue of $1.2 billion with 9% growth driven by
a resilient performance in emerging markets up by 18%, while China volume-based procurement
impacts took effect.
We also had continuous growth in the US up by [ph]7%, but Europe experiencing COVID
headwinds, down by 1%. The majority of use is still in the acute setting and Brilinta continues to
outgrow the market in all regions.
Please turn to slide 14. Turning to Respiratory and Immunology, we reported revenue of $3.8
billion with a 1% growth in the year-to-date, mainly due to the negative impact from Pulmicort,
notably in China. Impacts of Pulmicort on our overall Respiratory and Immunology revenue was
15% in the quarter and the year-to-date. Symbicort sales were strong at 2 point -- $2 billion with a
growth of 16% in the year-to-date. United States saw particularly strong growth, up 29% to $755
million due to the demand growth following the launch of the (technical difficulty) generic and a
resilient ICS/LABA market. Globally, Symbicort remained the leader in value and volume market
share in the ICS/LABA class. Pulmicort was down 39% in the year-to-date with revenue of $628
million, which continues to be impacted by COVID in China, especially the pediatrics nebulizing
segments. We continue to focus on growing revenue of Symbicort, as the maintenance therapy.
Please turn to slide 15. Now, I will focus on our new launch medicines. Fasenra contributed $660
million of revenue in the year-to-date with good growth despite COVID-19, where the majority
continued to come from the US, Germany, and Japan. In the US, Fasenra is performing very well
against new competitors, up by 23% with $423 million in revenue. Europe and Japan revenue
were $140 and $72 million respectively, as Fasenra continued to be the leading novel biological
medicine for severe uncontrolled asthma. The launch of Breztri for COPD is progressing well with
revenue of $21 million in the year-to-date with launches taking place in Japan, China, and more
recently the US, as we await for the US -- for the EU regulatory review with anticipated decision
before the year-end, following the positive CHMP recommendation.
As we look to kidney disease, we plan to fill the -- further build our franchise on top of Farxiga --
on top of the Farxiga data Lokelma and roxadustat. Lokelma had revenue of $48 million in the
year-to-date, mostly from the US at $37 million, as we maintain leadership in the New-to-Brand
Prescriptions. China and Japan launches are progressing well. On roxadustat, we reported
collaboration revenue of $90 million in the year-to-date coming from China. However, the quarterstrong with more than 90,000 patients being treated for anemia in CKD with roxadustat. We
continue to anticipate the US regulatory decision by late December.
Please turn to slide 16. Now let's take a closer look to the positive momentum we are seeing with
Fasenra. Across the world, Fasenra continues to be the leading novel biological medicine for
severe uncontrolled asthma in New-to-Brand Prescriptions, as you can see on the left side of the
slide. Equally, from a total prescription perspective, we have made very positive progress from
2019 to 2020, as shown on the right [ph]side. We are confident that Fasenra is on track to
blockbuster status and more importantly helping millions of severe asthmatics around the world.
Please turn to slide 17. Emerging markets where total revenue grew by 11% in the year-to-date
continue to track ahead of our long-term performance ambition, which is to grow sales on
average by mid to high single-digit percentage, despite a slight negative effect from
divestments. Outside China, total revenue was up by 10% with growth spread across the regions.
China delivered a resilient growth of 11% and continued to see some impact from the COVID-19
pandemic. Notably with Pulmicort, as previously mentioned and continued volume-based
procurement impacts. We anticipate a typical quarter for impact in China, as we approach the
NRDL negotiations. New medicines grew by 68%, now contributing just over a third of total
revenue in the region, with the strong performance driven by Oncology and new CVRM.
With this, I will hand over to Marc. Please turn to slide 18.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. And hello everyone. I want to take you through our financial performance in the
year-to-date, as well as a reminder to our guidance for the full year. Please turn to slide 19. As
always, I will start with the reported P&L before commenting on our core results. As Pascal
mentioned earlier, (technical difficulty) revenue grew by 10% in the first nine months of the year
despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Within total revenue, product sales were up by
11% driven by the success of the new medicine, while the fall in collaboration revenue in the third
quarter primarily reflected the phasing impact of substantial milestone [ph]receipt booked in the
third quarter of last year in respect to Lynparza. I do expect significant Lynparza milestone receipt
in the final quarter of 2020.
Please turn to slide 20. Turning now to the [ph]core P&L, this slide shows the progression in
operating leverage and now we are performing in line with our full year guidance. Our gross
margin ratio was 80.5% in the first nine months, and I continue to expect a ratio of around 80% to
81% of over the full year versus 80% in 2019. Core R&D expenses increased by 9%, partly a result
of the focused investment in the pipeline including the development of Enhertu and now DS-
1062. (Technical difficulty) contribution in 2017 to the development of Lynparza recorded at that
time in our balance sheet was gradually released to the P&L until last year. This impacted the
comparative performance. The R&D line also includes the development of brazikumab, though
we have refunded those costs through the other income line.
Core SG&A expenses increased by 3% in the year-to-date, driven by additional investment in the
China expansion and further support for global launches of the new medicine. There was,
however, a decline of 1% in core SG&A expenses in third quarter, helped by say -- savings in travel
and expense cost.
Core other operating income declined by 15% in the first nine months to $889 million and
anticipate a slightly lower combined level of collaboration revenue and other operating income
over the full year versus 2019. Our core tax rate so far this year in the first nine months was 21%,Finally, our core earnings per share ended at $2.95, up by 16%, demonstrating the sustained
progress we are making.
Please turn to slide 21. Before we look at net debt and cash generation, I want to take a moment
to highlight the changing shape of our P&L. While we expect collaboration revenue to increase
over time and anticipate that income from divestment will remain a material part of our P&L, the
left of this slide highlights the change in sources of profit and the growing contribution from
product sales that are being made from our new medicine. And I expect this long-term trend to
continue.
Turning now to net debt, it increased by $1.9 billion in the year-to-date. The generation of $6
billion of EBITDA was offset by a number of factors including dividend payments totaling $3.6
billion while also made the second of two $675 million up from payments to Daiichi Sankyo in
respect to Enhertu. Finally, we also paid the first and noncontingent payment of $250 million in
the third quarter as part of the agreement on DS-1062.
It is worth noting that net debt remained stable since the end of June, the [ph]date after which
the second interim payment was paid. I was pleased to see that [ph]our constantly involving
underlying business performance drove a year-on-year increase of $1.4 billion in net cash flows
from operating activities. This result bodes well for our ambition to cover our dividend payment
next year (inaudible) cash flows before financing activities.
Please turn to slide 22. This familiar slide continues to demonstrate the progress we are making.
As I mentioned, the 10% growth in total revenue so far this year was converted into a 16%
increase in core earnings per share. Our core operating margin [ph]rose by 1% (inaudible) to 28%,
even with a significant reduction in collaboration revenue and other operating income. The
progress of our operating leverage was also demonstrated by the fact that [ph]co-operating
expenses represented 57% of total revenue versus 59% a year ago. This increasing level of
profitability will convert into more cash, but (technical difficulty) our balance sheet and help us to
remain focused on the capital allocation priorities of the investments, the progressive dividend
policy, and a strong investment-grade credit rating.
Please turn to slide 23. Finally, I will turn to guidance for 2020, which as I mentioned a moment
ago, is on total revenue and core earnings per share at constant exchange rates. I am confident
in the retention of our guidance for the year despite the uncertainties arising from the pandemic.
A high single-digit to low double-digit percentage increase in total revenue is anticipated to drive
growth in core EPS of the (inaudible) to 18%.
With that, I now hand you over to Mene.
`Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
Thank you, Marc. Now we can go to the next slide, please. Hello, everyone. I'll provide an update
on our COVID-19 efforts and our BioPharmaceuticals medicine since last quarter and I'm also
joined by `Jose Baselga, EVP, Oncology Research & Development who will discuss Oncology movements and upcoming news flow across
the company.
Please turn to slide 25. We continue to lead across multiple fronts in the global response to the
COVID-19 pandemic. Progress has been made with our vaccine AZD1222 and we have now
resumed dosing in all our trials globally, alongside entering a rolling regulatory review in Europe.
We are fully recruited in the UK with Brazilian and South Africa trials with around 23,000 patients
now enrolled and we continue to anticipate data readouts for these studies from our vaccine
program within the next two months.Our long acting antibody combination, MEDI7442 is starting several Phase 3 trials to evaluate its
potential role in the in-patient, in the outpatient, and in the prophylaxis treatment setting. The
trials would look at a range of doses from 300 milligrams to 900 milligrams of both -- across
both intramuscular and intravenous routes of administration. And we are optimistic based on the
data we've seen so far from our early clinical studies that we can deliver protection for between
six months and 12 months. Finally, we continue to look across our pipeline for medicines that may
address different symptoms of COVID-19 disease such as acute respiratory distress syndrome
and organ damage.
Please turn to slide 26. We recently showcased two key pillars of our growing renal portfolio of
medical congresses as we start to focus on specialty care in CVRM. At the ESC, we presented the
DAPA-CKD trial, where results showed a 39% reduction in the composite measure of worsening
of renal function or risk of cardiovascular or renal death. Farxiga truly has the opportunity to
redefine a new standard of care for kidney protection as the first medicine to significantly prolong
survival in patients with CKD, either with or without type 2 diabetes. With our partner FibroGen,
we presented over 40 roxadustat abstracts at ASN, two late-breaking posters examined the
association between hemoglobin levels and cardiovascular outcomes. Roxadustat also showed
the reduced risk of hospitalization for heart failure and the risk of the red blood cell transfusions
while not being associated with an increased risk of cancer. These abstracts all highlight the
potential of roxadustat to transform the standard of care in patients with anemia of CKD. And we
anticipate the US (Technical Difficulty) decision before the end of this year.
Please turn to slide 27. As we prepare for the readout of tezepelumab in severe asthma this
quarter, I'll now focus on new data in Respiratory and our expanding Immunology pipeline. On the
left hand side, I wanted to highlight another practice changing data set, this time in COPD with
Breztri from our ETHOS Phase 3 program. In addition to meeting the primary endpoint and
exacerbation reduction, Breztri with a 320 milligram dose saw a 46% reduction in the risk of all-
cause mortality, a key secondary endpoint when compared with LAMA/LABA therapy, really
transformative data for COPD patients.
Switching to Immunology, Fasenra's extensive lifecycle program in immune driven diseases
continues to expand, and this month we announced [ph]positive data from the Phase 3 nasal
polyps trial, OSTRO, and nirsevimab in collaboration with Sanofi is the first potential passive
immunization for infants to demonstrate a sustained protection across the entire respiratory
syncytial virus season with just one dose. Using the same technology as it happens with our
monoclonal antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 [ph]YT technology.
For Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, our IL23 antibody brazikumab seeks to address the
large unmet need. Anifrolumab, our interferon-1 therapy has demonstrated consistent clinical
benefits across all measured SLE patient subgroups as presented at this year's EULAR
conference with additional analyses presented at ACR 2020. Regulatory submissions for
anifrolumab have been accepted both in the US and the EU with regulatory decisions expected in
the second half of next year.
Please turn to slide 28. To end, I'll quickly update you on the progress made in
BioPharmaceuticals and what's next in our pipeline. Our GLP-1 glucagon dual-peptide (inaudible)
has started Phase 2 trials now also in diabetic kidney disease. Building upon the success with
Farxiga in CKD and heart failure, we have two Farxiga combinations moving into Phase 2 across
heart failure and chronic kidney disease indications. The first is our mineralocorticoid receptor
modulator, AZD9977 and the second is a selective endothelin-A antagonist, Zibotentan,
otherwise known as AZD4054. These are the first of several Farxiga combinations moving intomid-stage development across CVRM indications with the extend -- the aim of extending the
lifecycle and life of Farxiga.
Finally, [ph]having demonstrated robust proof of mechanism for our subcutaneous PCSK9 anti-
sense[ph] oligonucleotide will be starting Phase 2b trials in the next few weeks with the ambition
of rapidly moving into pivotal studies in the coming year. We look forward to updating you on the
progress of all our medicines in our BioPharmaceuticals pipeline.
Now -- I'll now hand over to Jose. And please turn to slide 29.
`Jose Baselga, EVP, Oncology Research & Development `
Thank you, Mene. And hello everyone. We had a strong presence at this year's a virtual ESMO
2020 meeting that was held this quarter. If you look at the (technical difficulty) exploratory analysis
from Tagrisso's ADAURA Phase 3 trial showed that the result reduced the risk of central nervous
system disease recurrence by 82% in Stage Ib to Stage IIIA EGFR mutated non-small cell lung
cancer patients. This data underlies the capability of Tagrisso to reshape clinical practice in the
months and years ahead in this patient population. If we have focus on the middle panel, we
presented overall survival data from Lynparza's profound trial in biomarkers selected men with
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. The study demonstrated the potential that this
drug has to transform the therapy landscape. In addition to the main data, in a pre-specified
adjustment for crossover, we saw a hazard ratio of 0.42 for the supporting data [ph]for mention
of potential of this medicine. We are happy to let you know that today, we announced that we
have received regulatory approval for both PROfound and POLO 1 in the EU. Additionally, if you
look at the right, we show case data from our pipeline including [ph]Enhertu group analysis in
patients with HER2-low gastric cancer. This was the DESTINY-Gastric01 study. Of note, we are
recently granted a priority review in the US alongside with regulatory submission acceptance. We
also presented four-year survival data for Imfinzi in Stage III unresectable lung cancer and a five-
year follow-up data from Lynparza's SOLO-1 trial, illustrating our vision to transform the cancer
treatment landscape and advance clinical practice.
Please turn to slide 30. Next, I would like to update you on our progress on what next for
Oncology. [ph]During this quarter, we now have included datopotamab deruxtecan, our TROP2
ADC in license from Daiichi Sankyo as a potential new medicine. Based on very strong Phase 1
clinical data in lung cancer, it is now advancing straight to Phase 3 trials in this indication.
Additionally, in non-small cell lung cancer, our bispecific PD-1/CTLA4 MEDI5752 antibody will
commence Phase 3 -- Phase 2 trials. In multiple myeloma, we have started Phase 2 trials with
MEDI2228, our BCMA ADC. In addition, we continue to move forward aggressively to launch our
initial Phase 3 study for the oral [ph]SERD. If you look at the right now as for progress on what's
now, we are launching a number of exciting Phase 3 trials including in capivasertib in prostate
cancer and Enhertu's DESTINY-Breast06 trial in HER2-low breast cancer and Calquence in diffuse
large B-cell lymphoma. I look forward to updating you on the progress of these medicines and
others in the near future.
If you could please turn to slide 31. As Pascal highlighted earlier, 2020 hasn't been a big year for
regulatory news flow with some key submissions and regulatory decisions still to come in the last
quarter. In terms of data, we still have our anti-TSLP tezepelumab due to read out in severe
asthma this quarter. Now as we look into 2021, there is a lot to look forward to. We will see Phase
3 data readouts from Lynparza's OLYMPIA trial in adjuvant breast cancer and the PROpel trial in
the first line metastatic prostate cancer. For Imfinzi, we will report on the PACIFIC-2 trial in Phase 3
unresectable non-small cell lung cancer and in early bladder cancer in the (inaudible) trial. We also
have the highly anticipated (technical difficulty) data for Enhertu (inaudible) in second line breastcancer as well as Farxiga data in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and PT027 in
asthma. As you can see, this pipeline events provide further evidence of our diversified portfolio,
both in BioPharma and in Oncology.
And with that, I'll now hand back to Pascal for comments. Please turn to slide 32.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jose. So if you all turn to slide 33 and before the Q&A session, I will leave this slide for
a few moments. As a summary of the [ph]strategic achievements and summarize today's results
as follows. First of all, revenue advanced by 10% (technical difficulty) our expectations and despite
the impact from COVID-19. The global business continued to deliver with strong performance in
the emerging markets, excluding (technical difficulty), the performance also supported by the US,
Europe, and Japan, that are helping to further diversify the revenue base. In addition, [ph]there
are eight medicines with annual sales in excess of $1 billion.
We have also made solid progress on operating leverage, profit, and profit contribution from
sales as well as cash flow. I would like just to highlight that this results -- financial results,
[ph]formal results actually achieved in the context of two challenges or two headwinds. The first
one we have lower operating income and collaboration revenue as Marc highlighted in (technical
difficulty) due to the timing of a milestone. And the second is, we are operating in a relatively
hostile environment with COVID headwinds and the impact is mostly on Pulmicort of course with a
most -- moderate impact on some other products. And despite those challenges, the business is
able to develop today where this kind of growth rate and profit improvements and cash flow
improvements. So, it really bodes well for the future as the world hopefully will return to more
normality as we find solutions to this terrible pandemic.
Our pipeline continued to advance in 2020 mostly in the form of approvals and other regulatory
milestones and that is supporting our aspirations for continued strong revenue growth. We now
have 20 medicines in the (inaudible) pipeline across new medicines and lifecycle opportunities.
And with that there is optionality in the fight against COVID-19 with the vaccine and most
importantly, the long-acting antibiotic combination which as you heard from Mene, is looking quite
exciting and promising. Early days of course, but is quite exciting.
In 2021, we anticipate more new Phase 3 data which if positive will help sustain the current
momentum as we continue to transform and transition our business, increase our profitability and
our cash flow. We will now go to Q&A.
(Operator Instructions)
We will also take written questions from the webcast. And can I please remind everyone to limit
questions to one to be fair to all of our callers. Thank you in advance and perhaps now we can
take the first question from the conference call
And the first question is from `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citigroup at Citi. Andrew, go ahead.
Questions And Answers
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thank you, Pascal. It would be a miss for me ask not on COVID given where the world is at. I see
you have `Pam Cheng, Executive Vice President, Operations and Information Technology on the call. Perhaps Pam and Mene, you could comment on the exact nature
of the roadblocks in the supply chain that have led to some downscaling of the volumes that you
intend to supply the UK government, just so we can think through the ramifications for volumes tothe US and other markets in the next year. And one question to Mene, just could you add to that
for your antibody cocktail, 7442, the volumes that you could hope to attain given the potency that
you seem to be able to generate through the engineering with this biologic?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew. And let me make a couple of comments before I handover to Pam for your
first question. The first thing is that we are little bit delayed in our initial timing because of drop in
infection rate during the summer period in the UK. If you remember back in April, May when we
started, the infection rate was very high and it dropped in the summer, which of course was good
news for the community, but impacted the timing of the trial. And [ph]the rate picked up
(inaudible) quite a bit and of course we had also accumulated events in Brazil. We are blinded to
the event, the number of infections that have been accumulating. As you know, in a study like this
only a couple of statisticians know, but we expect now with this pickup and based on what we are
told we expect, as Mene said earlier, to have results before the end of the year. As it relates to
supply again (technical difficulty) handover in a minute to Pam to give you more details. But what
we have done is we have aligned the timing of delivery of vials to the daily -- the timing of the
clinical trial readout because I remember when we keep the drug in (inaudible) in vaccine bulk
format, this is kept frozen -- in a frozen state and therefore delivers a very long shelf life. As soon
as you turn this vaccine into vials, the shelf life starts ticking and of course the vaccine being new
and recent, we have limited shelf life data so far. It looks good, but you know it will improve over
time hopefully, but so far we have limited data. So we've kept these vaccine in bulk formats and
we will turn this into vials as soon as we feel confident, as soon as we get clinical data. We also
know in the UK that what the timing of the vaccination schedule looks like and of course you can't
vaccinate 20 million, 30 million people in a week. So, we will be able to deliver our vaccine if we
got approval before the end of the year. We'll be able to time the delivery of our vaccine in vial
for -- form to the UK government to align these deliveries to the vaccination schedule they have
put in place with population priorities and weekly targets per week. And net-net is, on a global
basis we'll be ready to supply hundreds of millions of doses of vaccine around the world by
January. And by -- hopefully by January if the vaccine works (technical difficulty) fingers crossed,
we would hopefully have a (inaudible) vaccinations. Pam, do you want to give a little bit more
detail as to the supply chain process we follow?
A - `Pam Cheng, Executive Vice President, Operations and Information Technology `
Absolutely. So, thank you, Andrew for the question. This is `Pam Cheng, Executive Vice President, Operations and Information Technology speaking here. I have to
say, given the enormity of what we are undertaking here, our challenge is normal and I'm happy
to report that we've been able to deal with the challenges. And since we've (technical difficulty)
there has not been any meaningful changes in the target capacity on the supply chains that we
have set up. So, as Pascal have spoke about, what's really important is really to make sure that
supply chain -- our supply chains are ready, across our supply chain nodes including drug
substance, which is the active, formulation, filling, and packaging and -- as well as analytical
testing and release steps. On many of our sites -- really important to say -- to note that many of
our sites in a global network have begun process validation and commercial manufacturing. So, in
other words, we are ready as we seek to produce finished products. However, as Pascal
mentioned, we must be thoughtful in terms of how much and when we convert what we call the
drug substance, which is the active into formulative vials, for example, because of shelf-life
issues. So, what -- our aim is at the -- upon regulatory approval, if and when we get the regulatory
approval, we will be able to release product on a rolling basis and begin supply in hundreds of
millions of doses upon approval. So, with that in mind, we are placing significant amount of effort
into planning in terms of when we convert the drug substance and we are holding majority of ourA - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Pam. And Mene, do you want to cover the second question.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
Yes. So, as you know, Andrew, we've got the commitment already from the US and UK
governments [ph]during the public domain for 2 million doses, which we will be able to supply
next year and we have additional capacity beyond that, I think is we can say we are aiming to be
between $2 million and $4 million doses next year, also depending on the ultimate dose. And
then obviously going into 2022, we would want to increase that as much as we can. So, in several
million doses next year and then growing into 2022.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citigroup `
Many thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mene. `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berenberg of Berenberg has the next question. Luisa go-ahead.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berenberg `
Oh, hello. Thank you. So, I have a couple of follow-ups, still on the vaccine and the antibody. So in
terms of the vaccine, should we be expecting early data from the two-dose regime and to what
extent would there -- is there likely to be data on elderly patients. I'm just wondering if they were
recruited slightly later into the study and the early data might just be on slightly younger cohorts.
And on the antibody, I'm just interested to understand with the Phase 3 in terms of the
prophylaxis, how long you expect to have follow-up to really demonstrate that six-month
longevity? So, will those studies take longer to read out or can you take the cut to two months
and then keep the follow-up going? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
(Multiple speakers) follow-on questions. Mene, if you want to cover the two.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
Yeah.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
And antibody, we like to call it, the long-acting antibody. The [ph]reason because we hope to
deliver six to 12 months protection depending on the dose use. But with that, Mene go ahead.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
So, in terms of the readout, as Pascal [ph]threw, expecting to get a read-out before the end of
the year. And Andy Pollard has just presented a few weeks ago. You may have missed it, at a
infection conference actually data from (technical difficulty) so we show that the immune
response in the 56 to 69-year-olds and 69 -- and 70 and above, looks very similar to the
response of the 18 to 55-year-olds. In that regard, we're feeling good about the immunogenicity
in all the age groups that we're testing, and we think we'll have data from those age groups for
the read-out.With regards to the antibody study, it's a great question. We will be following patients out for 12
months. But we will obviously be having interim looks that will enable us to understand the
efficacy of the antibody sooner than (technical difficulty) continue to complete the studies to the
final analysis.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mene. Do you want to say an additional couple of words on the antibody, explaining the
long-acting, but also the lack of effect function and the potential benefit of it.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
Yeah. There's a couple of them, maybe a few different studies -- there is a number of different
studies that we are taking. So, we have a prophylaxis study that's hopefully starting next week
called [ph]PROVEN. This is going to be using a relatively low dose of 300 milligrams
intramuscular, so obviously intramuscular is a very easy route of administration for the general
population. And the population we're going after here is immune compromised patients,
vulnerable patients that maybe will not respond well to a vaccine. Just to give you an indication,
as you know, there's about 500,000 patients just in the UK that are immune compromised, that
would be available for such a therapy.
We have another study called [ph]STORM CHASER, which is looking at post-exposure prophylaxis.
That's also going to be using 300 milligrams IM. And in that particular study, we're going -- at 300
milligrams to 600 milligram, sorry, as well. In that study what we're doing is going into a site that
is having infection and immunizing everybody with the antibodies. So, whether you're positive or
negative, it doesn't matter, everyone gets (inaudible). Imagine a care home having an infection,
you go and (inaudible) immunize everyone in the care home and give them immediate
protection. And then we have our [ph]TACKLE study, which is our in -- outpatient treatment study
that's looking at 600 milligrams IM. And then we have two studies that are going to be
sponsored by the NIH. One is the [ph]ACTIVE2, which is also an outpatient study. They are looking
at both an IV and IM dose route of administration. And [ph]ACTIVE3 study is the inpatient
treatment study, where they're going to be looking at a -- we haven't decided about the doses.
They'll be looking at an IV infusion, as well.
So, as I said, the [ph]YT extension gives us, what -- we feel pretty confident about will give us six
to 12 months of protection with a single dose. The [ph]Fc inactivation that we've done, we think is
import -- potentially could be important in those severe patients that you know they (inaudible)
general antibodies (technical difficulty) stopped because of a poor risk benefit in the most of A
population. The fact that we've inactivated the Fc domain in terms of the Fc-receptor binding and
the fact that we're going with much lower doses, I think it means that we may have a better
chance of seeing some activity or some efficacy in that more severe patient population as well.
[PH] But we think overall, the half life, the route of administration of dose gives us a real
competitive advantage relative to the other antibodies.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mene. The next question is from `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane at Exane. Go ahead, Richard.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Hopefully you can hear me okay?A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Yup.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane `
Yeah. So, yeah, I just wanted to ask a big picture, what maybe for you, Pascal on US drug pricing
[ph]reform. It looks like, it's likely we'll have a Democrat President and a Republican-controlled
Senate. And I just want to -- do you think the outlook is for further stalemate on this issue or does
that really provide the ideal backdrop for maybe industry to support a compromised solution that
might finally remove the industry from the political crosshairs. So, just your thoughts on bigger
picture for US drug pricing. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. I could ask maybe Ruud to answer. Ruud leads our BioPharma business, but also
is the head of the US organization. So, Ruud, do you want to go ahead?
A - `Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah, absolutely, Pascal. First of all, it's clear the [ph]distal unknown, of course, who is going to
win. But regardless of who is going to win, we are a little bit neutral to be very honest. We have a
clear statement that we try to work with every government irrespective the political backgrounds.
We are very committed to be a very constructive partner and we also hope that some of let's say
the policies we are supporting will get traction. Policies like value-based agreements, lower co-
pay, co-pays for patients, a better affordability for medicines. Innovative medicines are crucial
elements and whether the current President will remain in office or if we have President Biden, we
-- once again, we are little bit [ph]ambivalent and we will do our best.
Having said that, linking it also to the vaccine and antibody, we are working in a very constructive
way with the US government. They are highly supportive, as you know, of our vaccine efforts as
well as our long-acting antibodies and hopefully that will continue, if there is a change.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. I mean, the only thing I would add is that -- Richard is, I'm sure you've seen that the
balance of the Senate tends to favor Republicans and the speaker leader, McConnell has been
re-elected as you know. And (inaudible) has been very vocal in terms of the opposition to any
form of price control. So of course that will have an impact on the ability of any administration to
implement changes, and we hope to see constructive discussion around value-based pricing as
Ruud said and not so much discussion about government driven price controls.
So the next question is from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen at Cowen. Steve, go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. I have two product-related questions. On Imfinzi and neoadjuvant non-small cell lung
cancer, when should we expect to see the MPR and PCR readouts? And [ph]would you file on
them? And what led to the decision to make MPR rather than PCR the co-primary endpoint. So
that's the first question.
Second question is regarding the collaboration with Arcus for the TIGIT, have you seen data and
why did you pick the Arcus agent as opposed to that of competitors? Thank you very much.A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. Jose do you want to cover both questions and maybe on the Arcus collaboration if
you could add anything he wants. Jose, go ahead.
A - `Jose Baselga, EVP, Oncology Research & Development `
Yeah, so on the Arcus collaboration, we studied very well the antibody properties and we feel
that it's a fantastic antibody. So that's why we were so happy to seek a collaboration with them.
And to us, most important at all was the enthusiasm that we share with Arcus and ourselves in
developing this in what we think is the best indication, which is in the PACIFIC indication. And I
think that for us was very, very important. Because we feel that there we can make a true
difference. Then as for the first question, would you mind repeating this briefly to me.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Neoadjuvant Imfinzi, Jose and the transforming MPR, PCR (inaudible), the endpoints modification.
A - `Jose Baselga, EVP, Oncology Research & Development `
Yeah. So we have been following like the endpoints and we just changed them because we think
that we are going to find an endpoint that is more robust and that's why we just did it. We have
kept the old endpoint as a co-primary endpoint.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question is from `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, such -- of the Bank of America. Sachin, over to you.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
All right. Thanks for taking my questions. Two, please. Firstly on China outlook into '21. You've
highlighted lots of moving parts, VVP pressure, Pulmicort base effect and (inaudible) additions,
which will have price and volume. So I wonder if you could try and put all of that together for us
and give us some idea of how growth will look into next year versus the 26% growth ex-Pulmicort
in the third quarter?
And then the second question, just big picture capital allocation. You've mentioned unchanged
priorities (inaudible) the last two years have seen product deals even though they're officially low
on your capital allocation list. So how do we think about exceptions to the rule into '21 for product
specific deals which the markets generally liked both Enhertu and 1062 or even larger deals if
they are on the radar at all? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sachin. So Leon, do you want to cover the first question about China?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International and China President `
Yeah, I think VVP is -- definitely will be coming, the fourth batch, [ph]sixth batch sometime next
year. And some of AstraZeneca products will definitely get in. But right now we actually have
been trying very harder on Crestor and now on Brilinta. So by channeling patients, loyal users
through the outside hospital channel like retail pharmacy, online pharmacy in order to maintain
loyal user as much as possible for branded [ph]updated products. So I think we definitely have a
way and by expanding to more outlets, hospital and pharmacy and clinics, and we will be able toslow down the decline or erosion for VVP. And Pulmicort, I think this year, like (inaudible) said, in
quarter -- in September, we already see a good sign of rebounding of Pulmicort because of
schooling and the people are less aware of wearing mask in China. So we want to also see the
same trend happening in quarter four. And also quarter -- next year 2021, Pulmicort will be
comparing Pulmicort very low -- Pulmicort this year as a very low base. (Technical difficulty) we
believe next year Pulmicort will be a better year.
And NRDL this time, we are applying for six to seven new products and also some new indication.
So we -- definitely there will be also quite a price cuts, because of the budget pressure in China.
But AstraZeneca has a very good coverage and solid number one position in China. So we will
definitely be able to scale up volume much faster than the other companies in China. So we will
be definitely benefit from NRDL, one after another like Farxiga, [ph]roxadustat and Tagrisso use -
- and Lynparza use during the past.
So with all these three moving piece, we expect not -- China will not grow like -- 30%, 40% like
what we did last year. But I think China will still continue to grow a low double-digit or low-mid
teen digit, I think, so in that range.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Leong. Just add to things that Leong said that I would like to re-emphasize is. I think
our number one position in China and the strength of our organization are really bringing two
specific benefits that we can leverage. One is, Leong talked about Crestor. Because the prices of
those products is declining after VVP and the (inaudible) affordable, this market that is developing
that you can supply for retail pharmacies, online pharmacies and we've been very active in that
segment.
And essentially the story is, people can decide to pay out of pocket, the cost of Crestor, they are
loyal supporters. And instead of going to the hospital to get -- and queuing there to get their
medicines for free, they just have to (technical difficulty) to pay a limited amount out of pocket
and they can even get the drug delivered to their home. And in Shanghai, the big cities you can --
you get things very well to your home for $1 or $2. So there is a special market that exists and has
enabled us to maintain Crestor through enormous volume growth, despite the price drop.
And the second phenomenon that is really important is, NRDL drives access to many patients, but
it also drives price decreases. Now to get -- gain advantage of the volume growth, you have to
have a broad coverage of the entire country. And we are one of the few companies that have this
broad coverage reaching (technical difficulty) to the small county pharm -- county hospitals, et
cetera. And so we are very, very well positioned. We have a strategic advantage, leveraging this
existing network to go volume across the country and take advantage of NRDL listing. Otherwise,
you get the price cut but you cannot benefit from the volume growth.
So with this, the second question is, capital allocation. And I'll ask Marc to answer this. But I will not
say, Sachin that you should see the deals we've done as exceptions. We've always said that we
will remain open to doing deals that are strategically making sense for us and products we can
add value too. With that over to you, Marc.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal. And thank you, Sachin for the question. So our capital allocation priorities are
not changed. I think you -- what you referred to is probably the immediately accretive condition
that we have. And if we look at the two ADCs that we are partnered with Daiichi Sankyo, they
were in a way not meeting that criteria and therefore one could term them as exception to ourgeneral rule. But apart from the accretion of these two deals, it's not very long -- not very deep
and not very long. So there are exceptions, but they are not major exceptions. So basically, there
is no change in our, capital allocation priorities.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc.
The next question is from `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldmans. Keyur, over to you.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good afternoon and thank you for answering my questions. Two, if I may please on the vaccines.
The first one is, I think on the media call this morning Astra was quoted as saying that we should
expect the data from the vaccines in November. So just wondering if you can clarify is that
timeline based on an interim analysis of the ongoing Brazilian, South Africa, and the UK studies.
And if so, what is the number of events that would be needed to trigger this interim analysis?
And then secondly continuing with vaccines, I was wondering if you can just help us think through
the powering you need on the first interim analysis versus kind of the second and the final interim
analysis there. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Keyur. So, I'll ask Mene to cover this. Let me just correct one thing quickly. As we didn't
say November, we said before the end of the year, which of course you should read November
or December. The truth is, we don't know because we are blinded. But -- and the projections are
such that we know it could -- it should happen before the end of the year. But with this Mene,
over to you.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
Yeah. So thanks, Keyur. And of course, I'm not going to be able to shed a lot of light on this
because as you know, we don't talk about interims and on giving details about this. This is -- you is
an [ph]Oxford sponsored study. I think what I can say is that we're confident we will get results
before the end of the year, but we're not disclosing whether that's interim or final. But we do
hope we'll get results by the end of the year that will tell us one way or the other, whether this
vaccine is effective.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
And that is based, of course, on the non-US studies. US study has restarted and is recruiting fast,
but of course, initial results will be based on the non-US program.
With this, Tim Anderson at Wolfe Research. Tim, over to you.
Tim are you on mute? We can't hear you.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
Pascal, maybe you want to go to the webcast question and then back to Tim.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
So we'll give Tim a few minutes to re -- connect.So the next question on online is a question from (inaudible). And the question from [ph]Mariata
is in China for Brilinta, does the in-class price (inaudible) affect the hospital market only or also
(technical difficulty) market. Is there a spillover into retail and is the price cut always 30% or does
is vary.
Leon, it's for you, this one?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International and China President `
Yeah, actually in China it's a universal price. There's no public or private or hospital or retail
difference on pricing. So it's a universal cut. If you lose tender or if you win the tender or -- it's all
same cut. So the spill over definitely, the percentage of business in pharmacy will go up because
in hospital, they first they need to use tender winners first instead of losers. So losers all go to
retail pharmacy and still selling to the lower user. It's not always 30%, 30% is the maximum cut. If
your price gap against the similar generic is very small, and this can also go down to 20%.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Leong.
So, Tim are you back? Are you connected? Can you speak?
Q - `Timothy Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yeah. Can you guys hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Tim?
Q - `Timothy Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Can you guys hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
We seem to have some echo playing back into this call. So what we could do is move to the next
question.
`Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Mark, over to you.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
(Technical difficulty) through M&A, clearly tremendous growth in Q3. Heart failure indication hasn't
really kicked in and obviously CKD is yet to come. So could you talk to sort of maximizing the
opportunity over the medium to long term. Obviously this year, the competition [ph]matter
patent going in about five years time, but will you get additional IP you believe which can stand
the test of time in the -- in heart failure and CKD. And when it comes to the combination
approaches, you talk to the M&A with the MCR and the ERA. Is there any evidence to suggest
that the fixed combination could generate some synergies and -- which may be sort of more
elusive to find in a free combination. And then Pascal, can I just ask one clarification question on
the vaccine questions, maybe it's for Pam, but you were to deliver 700 million doses of the
vaccine through the government's and regional agreements by the end of the year. So should we
just assume that you've reach that level or you will reach that level in terms of the API frozenthat's being distributed. So will you be 700 by the end of the year and then would it take, for
example, four to six weeks then deliver that to the final customers.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark. So a few questions here. The first one is heart failure, CKD, Farxiga, and the
comments on the IP and then potential importantly of heart failure, CKD. I could ask Ruud to cover
this one. The combinations, Mene, and maybe the vaccine supply question could go to Pam.
Just on this last one, the 700 million doses will start in January. Essentially, we are accumulating
the drug substance and will turn this into vials and start delivering really substantial quantity --
quantities January and -- January forward to enable mass vaccinations. We'll start delivering in
December if we get approval, of course. But I guess really the big ramp-up would be early
January. And so we start -- Ruud over to do for the Farxiga questions.
A - `Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah, yeah. Thank you so much, Mark. So first of all, we remain extremely bullish on the potential
for Farxiga. We had a very strong quarter across all geographies. The heart failure opportunity is
very substantial. In the US, we have now the indication for a couple of months and we are very
pleased to see that in this specific segment and already Farxiga is becoming the market leader in
the SGLT2 class. So clearly there's traction and there is no reason to believe that, that will not
continue. Equally, we just saw the approval in Europe for heart failure. So all geographies are well
poised in order to capitalize on this huge opportunity.
CKD, I will not dwell on the phenomenal results, but I can tell you is that the opportunity is very
substantial. [ph]There are roughly 700 million chronic kidney disease patients in the world. And if
you zoom in for the US, there are an enormous amount, roughly 34 million patients in CKD3. The
big ticket item is that diagnosis rate are still limited, roughly 12% is diagnosed. So we will do a
huge effort in order to increase that. So that will continue, and we are very bullish that Farxiga will
show double-digit growth in the next five, six years.
Your IP question specifically, (technical difficulty) public domain we have protection until 2025,
2026 depending on the geography you are in. And of course, Mene and Research and
Development groups are doing everything in order to come with sensible combinations. So
perhaps, Mene you can give a little bit of a flavor of what we're doing there.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Before Mene -- before you come in, let me just add one quick one on the CKD. Ruud just gave
you the large, very large number of patients around the world, 700 million that suffer from CKD.
The one thing that is important to remember with CKD is, heart failure is a sophisticated
diagnosis but CKD is very simple, as you know. You measure GFR as part of your blood checkup
or you look at [ph]protein in the urine. So very simple diagnosis that can be conducted by
primary-care physicians. So the hope here is that we can really drive diagnosis and initiation of
treatment in those patients so we benefit from Farxiga.
Mene, sorry, over to you.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
Thanks. Pascal. So first of all, to say that the combinations and I'm only showing you two. We have
several combination programs in the works. But I wanted to highlight those two. We're all -- we'reanswer to the synergy question is, the hope is that there will be synergy and it's actually the
combination of mechanisms that makes sense. So, for example, endothelian antagonists
traditionally have suffered from edema because of -- but highly effective. Because of the low
dose that we think we can use with our particular endothelian antagonist but also combining with
SGLT2, we minimize the risk of any edema but maximize the efficacy with the addition of the
endothelian antagonist in the patient population. And with the mineralocorticoid receptor
modulator, our chemists have done a remarkable job of finding a set of molecules that have
been profiled against all the other MR antagonists. And we have very little evidence of any impact
on electrolytes and potassium, which is one of the major reasons why MR antagonists aren't
used, particularly in heart failure patients with impaired EGFR function or kidney function. And so
again combining Farxiga within MRM, we think is going to be a really valuable tool across heart
failure and CKD.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mene. And Pam, the last question?
A - `Pam Cheng, Executive Vice President, Operations and Information Technology `
Yes. Thank you, Pascal. So as mentioned, we are in commercial manufacturing for the drug
substance, as we speak, so -- which is the active material. So, you can assume that drug
substance will be available upon approval as planned. The time to convert drug substance to
packaged vial is only a few days, followed by a sterility test. So as Pascal mentioned, upon
approval we will have capability, readiness to convert into vials in a very short amount of time and
release the material and -- on a rolling basis in terms of the number of doses that we have --
we've been planning on.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Pam.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
As a quick reminder, we all get excited about deliveries but we have to remember, we have to
first [ph]ensure the vaccine works. And we all hope it [ph]does and -- but we still have to show
that.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you, Pascal.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
So -- and next question is `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities of Guggenheim. Seamus, go ahead.
Okay. So, maybe Tim Anderson, if Tim you're back on line, if it works.
Q - `Timothy Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, this is Tim. Can you hear me?A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Cool, cool. Go ahead, Tim.
Q - `Timothy Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
(Multiple speakers) Yeah, hi.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Timothy Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
A high-level question, what can we expect for revenue and earnings for us in 2021, even if only
directionally ahead of official guidance. Just what are the tailwinds, what are the headwinds, and
the greatest sources of uncertainty. And you can ignore any of the impact of COVID in that
question. I'm really thinking about individual brand and geography performance. And then
Pulmicort, just a simple question, when will that likely go under volume-based procurement in
China?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
So, maybe Leon, you can cover the second question, but the first one. As you'd expect, Tim we
don't give guidance at this stage in the year. I can sort of give you the ups and downs. I mean,
first of all, we have a normal -- we have strong momentum across our pipeline and we have more
news flow coming that will further fuel growth across Oncology. But, I think also Farxiga is going to
be a pretty strong driver. In Respiratory, we expect Breztri picks sale in Europe and also Fasenra
to continue growing. So, we have new launches, (inaudible) is doing very well in China. We -- so,
we have quite a number of launches that will support this growth. The headwinds, it depends how
COVID continues to impact Pulmicort. You had Leon said -- say a bit earlier that we see demand
[ph]size recover -- slowly recover in China. So if things continue to improve that way, we should
have a better Pulmicort next year. And in terms of the headwinds, I would say really what is
COVID going to impact Pulmicort again. And also, we have VVP and NRDL price listings. So the
NRDL price listing, they drive price reductions. But again with our strong coverage footprint in
China, we can (technical difficulty) to benefit from the upside in volume, which not every company
can do. Very few companies can do that. But I'm sorry, we can't give much more guidance at this
point in time.
Then the second question, Leon go ahead.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International and China President `
Yeah, I think the Pulmicort, right now we have one or two generics already approved with different
SKU dosage. And I think sometime next year, they will be more completed with a minimum
another two generic Pulmicort. So Pulmicort will be included in the VVP list. Our assumption is that
sometime next year, but will impact -- will not impact demand sales next year. We would definitely
have impact on sales of Pulmicort in 2022. But we believe Pulmicort with half of the business, still
will be coming from normalized and it will come from pediatric and pediatric usually self-pay. So,
we have a good chance to direct patients to outside hospital pharmacy and purchase online. And
it's for acute short-term usage, so it's very convenient to do it -- to by nebulizer and Pulmicort in
the pharmacy.And just to be aware, Pulmicort business impact is quite obvious. But underlying business of
China, if you exclude the Pulmicort the business in China is doing actually very well and it's on --
very much on track on the [ph]30s percentage growth, above 30% growth. So, I think it's a very
good business. So we will continue pushing the other new products and new NRDL included
products.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Leon.
Q - `Timothy Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Tim I was seeking -- thinking in terms of the ups and downs of this -- the trend in 2021, I
should have mentioned the optionality coming from the long-acting antibody. If this works, we are
going to be ready to say -- to supply a few million doses and that definitely would be an upside
also.
So, next question is from `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities at Guggenheim. Go ahead, Seamus.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Okay, thanks for the question. So just -- I wanted to ask one question specific to the -- you're AS -
- you're building presence in the Nephrology space and kind of Hematology. You had a big
presence at ASN, but right now your commercial presence there seems a little bit under
resourced. And just wondering in terms of your commitment to that space and growing that
space. Really where you see sort of the -- your vision for that area and growing there. How
committed are you to that and how core is roxadustat to that presence or do you see
opportunities to move beyond that. And then just a very -- a follow-up question on roxa, Mene
you seem extremely confident in your commentary in that regard. Heading into the FDA's
decision on December 20th, can you just give us a little bit of incremental color in terms of what
you think are the key questions that -- or would be an area of focus for the label in particular?
Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. So -- and let me ask Rudd to comment on the first one, Mene on the second
one.
Second one, I don't think you heard us being very confident. I mean, the outcomes of these FDA
discussions, as far the label could -- there are still several potential outcomes that Mene can
explain. And on the Nephrology side, I don't know where you get this impression we are not very
strong commercially. We started this focus on Nephrology many years ago. We acquired Lokelma
knowing that we had roxa. The positive surprise was Farxiga in kidney disease. And we've had a
Nephrology for quite some time and it's a very good Nephrology team. So, we have a presence
in nephrologist offices and of course we have the diabetes team and all these teams will
complement each other. But, Ruud over to you.
A - `Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `Yeah, no -- exactly, Pascal. We (technical difficulty) we are extremely bullish about the renal
opportunity. There's an incredible high unmet medical need and the fact that we have now
hopefully very soon dapagliflozin. In the CKD indication, Lokelma is doing very well in the United
States and the next stage will be to expand the market. And assuming that we will get a positive
readout from the FDA regarding the approval, roxadustat is a major, major opportunity for so
many patients treated -- facing anemia. China is -- I think is doing an outstanding job so far with
roxadustat. Roughly 90,000 patients are already on roxadustat, both in dialysis dependent -- in
the dialysis dependent situation as well as in the non-dialysis.
So, all the lights are green to be very honest, and we are very committed to this space because
we really believe that we have a portfolio which is making a huge impact on so many of those
patients.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
And then with regard to -- I mean obviously the big question is black box or no black box. And
obviously the regulators are going to make that decision on that. I think the important thing for us
is to make sure that we get the data across the various subtypes for the roxa whether it's in the
non-dialysis dependent population or [ph]instant dialysis population or the DD population. And
we think we have a very competitive profile. We will be aware of the Akebia data where I think it's
really opened up the space for us in the non-dialysis dependent population given the CV data.
And so we think we're in a very good position hopefully with a positive outcome from the
regulators in terms of label.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mene. And Seamus I think you were also referring to Hematology. I mean, in Nephrology
we are very well equipped including people treat anemia of kidney disease. And as it relates to
the more Hematology driven conditions, we have a Hematology sales force and we are looking
at how the Calquence sales force could potentially help where appropriate, could potentially help
roxadustat. So we have synergies across our various sales forces.
So we move to Matt Weston with Credit Suisse.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Can I ask a finance question for Mark, please. You flagged operating
leverage as a key driver on slide 22 with the 2 percentage point improvement in cost ratio over
2019. But that includes a significant SG&A benefit from COVID. So are you confident that we can
still see margin leverage next year as SG&A presumably bounce back and you also have a
significant launch commitment. And then if I can, a second one for Mene on COVID vaccines. We
saw some delays in the US with extended requirements from FDA on median safety follow-up.
Can you just remind us what the requirement is for safety follow-up from EMA in terms of time on
the product? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Matt. Mark do you want to start and then Mane can cover the other question?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Matt for the questions. So first of all operating leverage, which we simplistically
define as growth of product sales minus growth of operating expenses. We need to alsohas increased -- is increasing in 2020. It is year-to-date about 22%. So there will be an
improvement and we'll continue to work on the improvement of the operating leverage. And this
year it is at the end of September of about 5%. We -- it's sort of rate of improvement that we are
satisfied with. It will continue in the year 2021 and following the -- following '21.
So yes, we will continue to work on the operating leverage, but plus remember that the -- and
operating leverage also includes the large investment we do on R&D.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development `
And then Matt, in terms of the question around vaccine safety. I mean, bear in mind again that we
started dosing with this vaccine in April of this year. So we've actually got now over 20,000
patients dosed and there's nothing from the interactions that we've had with either the EMA or
the MHRA that is giving us pause that if we demonstrate efficacy and safety in a date set that
we're having the studies that are ongoing across Brazil, UK and Africa that we won't be able to
get an approval.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mane. Two quick adds, if I may. Remember that operating leverage is also after other
income and is influenced by the brazikumab cost which Mark mentioned earlier. And we get
refunded in the other income lines. So I know it's not always easy. We have many moving parts
with all these collaborations, but you always need to remember this when you look at all the cost.
And as far as the safety, I think it's -- I mean, I know you know that, but it's important to
remember there is an independent safety committee that constantly reviews or regularly reviews
the data, of course, as you would imagine and monitor all the safety in the [ph]two arms.
Important to remember this as we consider our safety profile and so far, of course we know that
they have been satisfied with safety and -- as well as the regulators.
Next question is `James Gordon, Analyst, JP Morgan at JP Morgan. James, over to you.
Q - `James Gordon, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hello. Thanks for taking the questions. `James Gordon, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. A question on the
pipeline. And the first question is on the AKT inhibitor, so I saw today you've announced Phase 3
initiation of prostate and we got Phase 3 (inaudible) breast cancer triple-negative. But using the
AKT mechanism (inaudible) breast cancer study and limited benefit in prostate, benefit the
therapeutic window or tolerability. So question is, could you remind us or update us why you think
(inaudible) should we now be a bit more cautious on this class or reasons that this will be a lot
more successful. And then also a clarification on Calquence please. So the head-to-head study
versus IMBRUVICA, that's concluded by year over the last two quarters. I think it was 2022 and
then H2 '21 and now it's H1 '21. So what made that move around. Is it just more events occurring
and is that good or bad from the chances of it actually being successful. And what's given us the
confidence also to move this product forward into Phase 3 for DLBCL as well, please.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James. Two questions for Jose.
A - `Jose Baselga, EVP, Oncology Research & Development `
Yeah. So thank you very much. So let me address first the question on (inaudible). So you know
we are gathering different data when it comes to triple-negative breast cancer. We have positivetriple-negative breast cancer study, CAPItello-290 is likely to do well. We have different, as you
know populations, right. At Roche, on the recently failed Phase 3 study they had chosen a
biomarker group pre-defined and basically we are not doing that. We are going on [ph]overall
population.
In prostate, also the difference is that we are going into an (technical difficulty), so we are not
going in post-failure of hormonal therapy but rather we are going early. We think that has a
measure (technical difficulty) and also in ER positive, we are going at full speeds. So we'll see the
data will read out, but we are very confident that what we have is the best in class.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose. And we are out of time but we'll keep going for another eight minutes or 10
minutes max. So we'll take the last three questions. And then please, please stick to one question
per person.
So over to you Naresh at Intron Health.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just one on Fasenra. And can you give a sense of how you are
doing in terms of market share across all biologics and not just (inaudible) and how is pricing
evolving in that space? Thanks.
A - `Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
So I can take the first call.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
So, of course, that's a good question but also difficult to answer because some of the competing
products have multiple indications. Of course, Dupixent has the atopic dermatitis indication which
is very, very large. Equally, Nucala has a couple of other indications, EGPA and others. So all in all, I
think if you look at the total volume perspective, if you include all the indications it's clear that we
are not the market leader because we're not competing in that. Equally, it's very important that if
you assess the performance of the different biologics that you adjust the market shares for the
number of injections, I think Fasenra is very unique that, that's only dosed every second months
while some of the competitors are either dosed every month or every two-week. So I think that's,
for yourself for your background is very differ -- it's very important to make that distinction.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. The next question is `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies & Company of Jefferies. Go ahead, Peter.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies & Company `
Thanks. I'll be brief. Just quickly on for Jose. I wonder if you could comment on DESTINY-Breast05
versus (inaudible) in the adjuvant setting and just give us some idea perhaps of [ph]how -- what
can be done to expedite that study, given obviously the length of time it took for Catherine to
readout. And just quickly a clarification for accountant Marc on SG&A, is it possible to give us anyidea of the savings do you think that COVID-19 has had for SG&A this year? So perhaps give us
some sort of feeling going into next year? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Peter. We'll cover the first question with Jose and SG&A question, we'll come back to it at
the end if we still have a few minutes. Go ahead Jose.
A - `Jose Baselga, EVP, Oncology Research & Development `
Thank you very much. So we -- I think we have a very different situation than [ph]Catherine in the
past because at that time, the concept that was being explored was very interesting with
(inaudible) not proven. I think that we [ph]are now into a situation in which everybody accepts that
is perhaps the last opportunity that you're having cancer -- in breast cancer to rescue patients
with early disease. So the field has moved into embrace the concept. Now having said this, I
mean, Daiichi Sankyo and ourselves, we're putting anything we can to expedite enrollment. The
advantage of Daiichi Sankyo and of ourselves by being together, I mean, together, we have a
phenomenal machinery. So I be vigilant and -- but I am positive.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose.
The last question is from `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Limited of Redburn.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Limited `
Thank you for taking my question. It's on respiratory and I wonder if you could give us an update
on the various trends you're seeing, a lot of pushes and pulls within the category. The disruption
to new patient starts for Fasenra on one hand and the weaker seasonal flu that we've seen this
year in the Southern Hemisphere and appears to be the case in the Northern Hemisphere. So
putting all that to get, I wonder if you could update us on the trends that you're seeing in terms
of demand across the respiratory portfolio? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Simon. Rudd, it's for you this one.
A - `Ruud Dobber, EVP, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah. Again a very good question and thanks, Simon. So first of all for Fasenra, in the current
COVID-19 environment we see roughly across geographies, a drop of 20% to 30% of new
patients. Let's not forget (technical difficulty) those patients are getting treatment of severe
asthmatics with inhaled corticosteroids. But of course we firmly believed our better treatment
options. But in some cases clinics are closed or getting closed again, like in Europe and in some
states in the United States. Of course, in the post-COVID period, we firmly believe that those
new patients -- patients will come back very quickly. Then regarding your other questions about
other dynamics regarding a low flu season, you are correct. Flu is a very important initiator of
asthma attacks. So far the flu season is relatively mild. Equally of course a large proportion of our
business is coming from the COPD segments, both for Symbicort as well as the recently
launched Breztri. And we think that, that underlying demand will remain strong. Earlier in the year,
we have also clearly seen a high level of demand of Symbicort because asthmatics and COPD
patients simply don't want to get infected with COVID-19. Their lung function is already relativelybad and a COVID-19 infection is certainly not helping it. So we see that overall the persistency of
our therapies has increased over the co -- during the COVID period.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud.
And we have a couple of minutes left. So we could return to Peter's question about G&A, Marc.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you for the question. It's not an easy question to answer. If you look at the progression
of our SG&A growth rates over the first quarter, it was six -- 5% to 6%, 3% on the second quarter,
minus 1% on the third quarter. So I would say approximation would probably be a low single digit
impact of the reduction of activities due to COVID marketing activities and sales activities, and so
on. I think it's hard to pinpoint a precise number and obviously depends where the COVID
pandemic is more or less intense, at what speed you are recovering, and so on. But I would say a
low single digit impact over the course of the year would probably be a good approximation.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc.
Just as a reminder, our focus is on continuing improving operating margin, getting to 30% next
year and then carrying on improving all the time.
And so with this, I think it's probably time to close. Just want to remind you as a closing -- few
closing comments is our revenue advanced by 10%. Despite the impact of COVID and it's in line
with our expectations. We have growth, strong performance in the US, Europe, Japan and also
growth and strong performance in Emerging Markets, especially if you exclude Pulmicort, 25%
growth in China excluding Pulmicort. So very strong underlying business growth. In addition, we
have eight medicines with annual sales in excess of $1 billion and also we continue improving. And
(technical difficulty) operating leverage, our profit, our cash flow despite this challenging
environment with [ph]COVID of course creating headwinds. And we finally (technical difficulty) say
that we continue to improve the pipeline and we have had pretty good news so far and there's
more news to come later this year but importantly also next year, and this will continue to fuel our
growth as the (audible) touch pipeline continues to deliver. We now have 20 medicines in
(audible) touch pipeline and have [ph]sacred opportunity. So we are very hopeful that our growth
momentum continues over the years to come.
So with this, I would like to thank you very much for your interest and your attention and I wish you
a good rest of the day.
Operator
(Technical difficulty) for those joining from the UK and the US. Good morning to those joining
(technical difficulty).