Q3 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the SAP Third Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder,
today's conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
`Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you for joining us for
our extended earnings call today to discuss our strategy update as well as our third-quarter
results and the updated guidance. I'm joined by our CEO, `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; and our CFO, Luka
Mucic, who will make opening remarks on the call today. And also joining us for Q&A is Executive
Board member, `Adaire Fox-Martin, Executive Board Member, Customer Success Organization, who leads our Customer Success Organization. And as usual,
before we get started, I'd like to say a couple of words about forward-looking statements and
our use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that are not
historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Words such as anticipate, belief, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may
plan, project, predict, should, outlook, and will, and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are
intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial
results are discussed more fully in our filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission,the SEC, including SAP's annual report on Form 20-F for 2019 filed with the SEC on February 27
this year.
Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of their dates. In addition, on the Investor Relations website, you
can find a slide deck intended to supplement today's call available for download. The address is
www.sap.com/investor. For those of you following the webcast, the slides will be shown as we
proceed through the prepared remarks.
Unless otherwise noted, all financial numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS and
growth rates and percentage points are non-IFRS at constant currencies year-over-year. And non-
IFRS financial measures we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to
the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. And this extended
earnings call today is being held in lieu of the Capital Markets Day we discussed last quarter.
With that, I'd like to turn things over to our CEO, `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Stefan. Welcome and thanks for joining. I hope everyone is well and staying safe, as
COVID infection rates unfortunately increasing again in most countries. Today's announcement
mark an important milestone for our SAP. We have not only published our Q3 results and updated
our 2020 outlook but more importantly, we are providing additional insight into how we are
evolving our strategy.
Our updated strategies are a response to the fundamental changes in the market called on by
the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 is an inflection point for our customer. Many enterprises have
real issues to what you would sell and deliver the products in times of country lockdowns and
people working from home.
For most of our 400,000 customers' resiliency is achieved not just by accelerating the move to
the cloud. But more importantly, by driving a fundamental change in how that business operates
end-to-end. It means transforming every process for the digital world on the customer facing go-
to-market function, all the way to supply chain management. SAP is uniquely positioned to partner
with our customers to make this transformation happen combined with the move to the cloud.
Which is why we are determined to reinvent our business as one by co-innovating with our
customers and partners across the broadest cloud solution portfolio in the market. Responding
decisively to the requirements of our customers in a fast-changing world, results in our new
financial mid-term ambition.
But before going there, let's take first a quick look at Q3 and the updated 2020 outlook. In Q3,
our resilient business model allowed us to continue to grow strongly in the cloud. And, again,
growing operating profit and margin apart from the intelligence spend business our SaaS and
PaaS cloud revenues were up by 26%. We continue to see a very rapid growth in categories such
as Commerce, S/4, Supply Chain, Qualtrics, and our foundation, the business technology
platform.
Current cloud backlog is up significantly by 16% to EUR6.6 billion. At the same time, the lack of
recovery from COVID-19 is visible in the lower-than-expected transactional cloud revenue
because of our travel and expense solution Concur, which is hard to sell in times of COVID. Our
software license performance is on a similar level compared to our Q2 result.On the bottom line, the benefits of our Best One transformation project have continued to show
tremendous focus. As stated, we yet again expanded significantly our operating margin and free
cash flow. In addition, 28,000 customer go-lives over the last nine months demonstrate our ability
to deliver remotely in a challenging environment.
Q3 also saw many notable customer wins including some competitive replacement. Deals
included Lenovo for S/4HANA, Rabobank for S/4HANA Cloud, Swisscom Barilla for customer
experience, HP and Uniper for the business, technology platform, LG for Ariba, Walgreens Boots
Alliance for supply chain management, Lululemon for Qualtrics, (inaudible) for Industry Cloud and
Bahrain Airport for SuccessFactors.
For SuccessFactors actually more than 4,000 customers and around 45% of the Fortune 500 are
already running on our call solution employee essential. This quarter we added more than 500
S/4HANA customers, around 45% were net new, take us to a total of more than 15,100
customers, 20% up over last year. In Q3, we also added a new deployment option for our Private
Cloud service HANA Enterprise Cloud. So far we have offer deployment in SAP or hyperscaler
data center. But there is also demand by customers who wanted services in their own data
center, managed by SAP. This is why we have now launched the HANA Enterprise Cloud customer
edition and we are very excited that in this quarter, Lenovo, has decided to become a global
partner for the customer edition with their true scale offering.
This supplements the global GreenLake partnership with VMware and HP. Finally Interbrand have
issued the 2020 Best Global Brands report, and I'm where we proud that SAP came in at number
18 globally, up two spots versus last year, improving its brand value by 12% to more than $28
billion.
Luca will now provide additional insights into Q3 and our updated 2020 outlook. Luca, over to
you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks very much, Christian, and welcome also from my side. We again navigated through a
challenging environment in Q3. Amidst COVID headwinds, we improved our operating profit and
operating margin against a very strong prior-year comparison. Our cash flows saw an exceptional
improvement and our earnings per share was very strong. Our resilient business model with the
consistent year-over-year increase and more predictable revenue helped us to weather the
storm in these unprecedented times.
Now, let's go into more detail on the quarter, starting with the top-line. Where our current cloud
backlog grew by 16% reaching EUR6.6 billion amid continued COVID-19 effects on our cloud
business.
Our cloud revenue was up 14% with continued lower transactional revenues. This negatively
impacted our cloud growth rate by 6 percentage points, especially in Concur, while our on-
premise software license business continued to see scrutiny over large projects as uncertainty
persisted. Our performance this quarter was similar to the one in Q2, especially considering the
very good Q3 last year.
From a regional perspective, Europe had a resilient performance this quarter, with strong results
in Russia and Switzerland. Latin America had a remarkable performance driven primarily by Brazil
and Mexico. And in APJ, Japan had a solid quarter and Australia and India were highlights.In Q3, our Cloud and Software revenue grew by 2%. For the first nine months, our Cloud and
Software revenue was up a solid 4%, even though the challenging demand environment did not
further recover as we had hoped. Our Services revenue was down 11%. While we continue to
deliver most of our projects very efficiently and effectively remotely, we do see an impact, in
particular on our Training business, as the reopenings of our global training centers have been
delayed. As a result, our total revenue was flat year-over-year.
Now moving on to the bottom line. Where in Q3, again, all of our businesses Cloud, On-premise
and Services increased their gross margins. Our overall Cloud gross margin continued its positive
trend and grew by 70 basis points year-over-year to 70%. All Cloud business models contributed
to this margin expansion. Our SaaS-PaaS margin grew by 110 basis points to 71%, our intelligent
Spend margin grew by 20 basis points to 78% and our Infrastructure as a Service margin grew by
800 basis points to 33%.
In Q3, our Software Licenses and Support gross margin was up 60 basis points to 88%, despite
the decrease in software licenses revenue. Our Services gross margin increased significantly by
500 basis points and reached 31%. This was mainly driven by a larger share of our high margin
premium engagement business which has proven to be effective in this virtual environment.
As you will recall, our operating profit, as well as our operating margin was up significantly in Q3
of last year. This quarter our operating profit grew strongly by 4% and our operating margin
expanded by 1.3 percentage points to 31.9%. As uncertainty persisted, we remained cautious on
hiring and discretionary spend. On an IFRS basis, our operating profit and operating margin
decreased. This was primarily due to higher share-based compensation expenses.
Now turning to EPS and taxes. IFRS EPS increased by 26%, non-IFRS EPS increased by 31%. This
was mainly driven by yet another exceptional contribution from SAPPHIRE Ventures, which had a
significant positive impact on our finance income as well as in our IFRS and non-IFRS effective tax
rates. Therefore, we now expect an improvement in our effective tax rate for 2020. Our IFRS tax
rate is expected to be in a range of 27% to 28% and our non-IFRS tax rate is expected to be in a
range of 26.5% to 27.5%.
Now turning to cash flow, in particular, the bright spot. In the first nine months, our operating cash
flow was strong and improved by 54% to EUR5.1 billion. As expected we experienced lower
restructuring-related payments and lower income tax payments. Our free cash flow was up even
further and grew by 79% to EUR4.2 billion. Free cash flow additionally benefited from lower CapEx
compared with the previous year. Therefore, we are again raising our cash flow expectation for
2020. We now expect an operating cash flow of approximately EUR6 billion and the free cash
flow above EUR4.5 billion.
Let me now turn to the remaining part of our previous 2020 outlook that was issued on April 8
and reflected our best estimates concerning the timing and pace of recovery from the COVID-19
crisis. Back then, we had assumed that the demand environment would gradually improve in the
third and fourth quarters. And while we still see robust customer interest in our solutions to drive
digital transformation, regrettably lockdowns have recently been reintroduced in some regions.
Infection rates have re-accelerated and as a result demand recovery has been more muted. And
for the same reasons, we no longer anticipate a meaningful recovery in SAP Concur business
travel-related revenues for the remainder of the year.
Therefore, we now expect Cloud revenue in a range between EUR8 billion to EUR8.2 billion,
Cloud and Software revenue in a range between EUR23.1 billion to EUR23.6 billion. Total revenuein a range between EUR27.2 billion to EUR27.8 billion and operating profit in the range between
EUR8.1 billion to EUR8.5 billion.
So to summarize on Q3, this quarter we showed tremendous results, as we continue to improve
operating profit and margin, even against the strongest comparison. Based on a resilient top-line
performance, pay-out [ph] was disciplined on the cost side. We had high double-digit free cash
flow growth and exceptional earnings per share numbers. All of this and our resilient business
model, position us well to emerge stronger out of the crisis and meet our new mid-term
ambition, which we would like to discuss next.
And for this, let me hand back to, Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Luka. Now before looking at our strategy and mid-term ambition, let me start
with a brief recap of what we have achieved over the last six to nine months. SAP was definitely
not short of events. We have streamlined our operations. All of our customer-facing operations
were combined into one Customer Success organization and all our application development
within one Product Engineering unit to simplify SAP.
Thanks to our dedicated focus on Customer Success across SAP, we have seen and where we
encourage in year-to-date customer satisfaction score. For the first time in several years, there is
a clear positive trend. We have increased focus in our existing portfolio. We have decided to
divest non-core assets, such as SAP Digital Interconnect, and we entered partnerships to co-
innovate with industry leading companies like Siemens, Honeywell and Bosch. Instead of doing
everything ourselves, we are co-innovating. Finally, we have started to establish SAP as a leading
cloud platform company. We have always been the leading on-premise application platform.
Thousands of partners and customers have build applications and extensions on SAP for almost
50 years. Our intention is to repeat that for the cloud. To position SAP as the leading cloud
platform to transform and change the way enterprises work in the digital age. To get there, we
have put a lot of work into our cloud platform over the past 12 months and we will continue to
invest in innovation and we are very pleased to see that the hard work is being recognized.
Gartner has ranked us leader for both Enterprise Integration Platforms and Development
Platforms.
The times when SAP developed and engaged with customers in silos are over. Now, before we
go deeper into our strategy let me pause here for a moment and talk about why we are doing
this now. The COVID-19 pandemic, which we all hoped would be easing by now is giving up for an
additional wave. This crisis has created an inflection point for customers', a true catalyst to
accelerate their transformation effort has put a spotlight on resiliency which is more than just
about the underlying infrastructure and its move to cloud. It is about changing the way how our
company wants to adapt to new digital business models and drive automation. Resiliency and
sustainable long-term growth and profitability comes only by transforming the company to the
needs of the consumer and employees in a digital world.
Take retail for example, when brick-and-mortar stores shut down because of the pandemic and
supply chains were disrupted, retailers that had made the move to digital, did much better than
those who haven't. They were able to continue to sell via e-commerce and the digital supply
chain ensured that despite the lockdown they can continue to sell, produce and deliver their
product. To adapt new business model and to do so with agility our customers need innovative
business software, a platform and showing harmonized semantical data models, one new digital
business models end-to-end. This is where SAP comes in. With our strategy, accelerated technicalagnostic when it comes to their choice between SAP Data Center or Hyperscaler. We can make it
work, with the near best TCO in the market, no matter which choice our customers make.
Second and more importantly, we will bring the full force of our business applications and
platform to drive holistic business transformation by enabling our customers to seamlessly
design, evolve or invent new business models with agility and speed. To do so, all our main
solutions will adopt SAP, the cloud platform and share one semantical data model. One AI and
analytics layer, one common security and automization model and the same application business
services, such as workflow management. With our cloud platform powered by SAPHANA, how
businesses can be changed enabling agile workflow. Innovations and extensions can be
developed quickly by customers' and partners' accessing our open platform using exactly the
same data model and business services as our own SAP apps.
We are convinced that the real value driver of Intelligent Enterprises in the cloud will be the ability
to adapt and one new business model holistically end-to-end with one consistent data model.
This is where we take a different approach than others, data and process silos are biggest
inhibitor for enterprises to offer a seamless customer and employee experience. You need
integration extensibility and innovations to truly drive business outcomes, resiliency, profitability,
and sustainability. That is the only way forward.
What gives me confidence at this unique time in our history is our position of strength, our focus
today and our heritage. Our applications are more than EUR10 billion worth of workload and we
want them semantically consistent across the entire value chain. At SAP we are towing [ph] on
almost 50 years of business expertise of defining, redefining and reinventing the most important
processes of our customers. And only SAP can mobilize the partner ecosystem, consisting of the
best plans to fully realize the potential of any customer, no matter the size, to truly become an
Intelligent Enterprise. This is in our DNA. It's our goal to enable every customer to become an
Intelligent Enterprise and we are determined to leave no customer behind. Especially now in
times of COVID, we reaffirm our deep commitment to our customers to help them through the
crisis.
This new strategy and as well as macroeconomic factors have implications for our financials. They
had the reason for the change of our mid-term guidance, which I'm going to speak about next.
So coming from our previous financial mid-term ambition, what other changes? Let me start with
the two macroeconomic factors currency and COVID. But over the last three months, we have
experienced currency headwind versus our previous assumption. This translates into a negative 3
to 4 percentage effect on revenue and operating profit.
Second, we now anticipate a more conservative COVID-19 recovery. We assume that COVID will
impact the economies through at least the first half of next year. And then we have two strategic
decisions. We are adjusting the financial guidance to the new reality, and first and foremost to the
needs of our customers. One, as just discussed, we will win how businesses won, enabling our
customers' business transformation in the cloud to gain higher resiliency. In consequence, we will
accelerate the transition of our customer base to the cloud. This accelerated move to the cloud
will clearly add value over the longer run by increasing cloud revenue. And in the short term, there
will be revenue mix effect as we see less on-premise and more cloud revenue, resulting in the
negative operating margin impact of 4 percentage points to 5 percentage points in 2023. Two,
we will continue to relentlessly execute on productivity improvements under the Best One
program that's laid out last year's Capital Markets Day. We are not moving away from these
commitments. By accelerating the move into the cloud, we will even further increase the
productivity improvements in our cloud delivery operations.We have decided to speed up the modernization of our cloud-delivery to enable a more resilient
and scalable cloud infrastructure. This will require additional investments in the next two years
that allow us to largely complete the modernization in this time frame and achieve the cloud
gross margin of approximately 80% in 2025. We will provide more background on those two
strategic decisions in a moment.
But first, I'll go a bit deeper on the macroeconomic impact. Nobody can predict the COVID-19
economic impact beyond 2020. But given recent developments, it is prudent to assume more
gradual recovery, which we have now done. In our on-premise business, we have seen significant
investment delays in 2020 in several hard-hit industries. And across all industries and
geographies, we see an increasing demand to accelerate to move to the cloud. We just expect
Software License revenues to decline further from today's level also in the future, considering our
accelerated cloud transition. For our Cloud business, we assume that the negative COVID-19
impact will start to ease in mid-2021.
Let's now move to the strategic decision, starting with the accelerated cloud transition for our
customer base. The increasing customer preference for cloud is ultimately positive for SAP, as we
are already the second-largest enterprise cloud application vendor. And we continue to grow
rapidly, even amidst the COVID-19 crisis. With the journey to the cloud, as previously outlined, we
are further addressing this market need, accelerate the cloud transition and tripling our cloud
revenue to more than EUR22 billion by 2025. The ambition is based on moving our large on-
premise ERP workloads to the cloud and gaining market share for our leading cloud application.
Firmly establishing our platform as the basis for business transformation in the cloud, winning in
new market, increasing our R&D invests to deliver new innovations in the Industry Cloud, business
network or sustainability, strong focus on our customer success to ensure adoption, higher than
use and ultimately lifetime value.
The incremental growth resulting from of this accelerated cloud transition will be even more
profitable until 2025. To deliver on this target and to retain the profit focus, we have also decided
to accelerate the modernization of our cloud delivery.
Luka, will now take us through the financial implications of both of those decisions, and then, how
it all comes together in our new mid-term ambition. Luka?
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Christian. So let me first talk about the financial implications of moving our on-
premise customer base to the cloud. Christian has already explained the strategic motivation. So
let me now look at the financial rationale.
To begin with, as you know, the cloud transition is not a new topic for SAP. We have seen the
financial impact from this basically since the beginning of our cloud journey, almost 10 years ago.
And over the years, as we rapidly grew in the cloud during this first phase of the transition, we
had very material negative revenue mix effect on margins simply because the profitability of
those cloud businesses was lower than that of our on-premise business. But since most of that
cloud growth came from Greenfield opportunities, that phase of the transition was always
accretive to total revenue and did not put significant pressure on absolute profit.
And finally, by end of 2018, our cloud business has had reached the scale and efficiency that
allowed us to deliver increasing operating margins, in 2019 and also in 2020. This quarter was
actually another strong proof point for that.Now the first important point to understand is that what we'll be doing now this difference.
Because this time, we'll be moving large parts of our ERP customer base from on-premise to the
cloud to move them out of the upfront software licensing model and into the ratable subscription
licensing model. A little bit like other players, for instance, Adobe have done it before. Though it
will not be as ripped record in our case, as we are talking about an option for the customers. Why
does this make financial sense? That's the second important point. Because we are increasing
customer lifetime revenue as we are expanding our role from a software vendor to a cloud
provider for a significant part of our portfolio.
This means we not only deliver software and support services, but also be applied to IT
infrastructure and operational services. But we are effectively expanding our share of wallet. The
potential uplift here is substantial, but even more important is the associated up-selling potential
of the business technology platform, additional SAP solutions and partner applications developed
on top of it.
An important thing to keep in mind here is that we do not have to deliver all of that ourselves, but
just like today can also procure required capacities from our strategic partners, bundled and at
scale. However, as we all know, there are timing effects thus the license model is upfront and a
subscription model is rated.
Now what you see here on this slide is actually a very simple model of what revenue looks like for
a software license sale under the on-premise model versus another wise identical cloud
subscription contract. And it doesn't matter if it's a new customer or an up-sell to an existing
customer.
In a nutshell, what becomes clear is that; one, the cloud transition causes a push of revenue and
thus profit to future periods; two, the annual cloud revenue is a bit more than twice as high as the
support revenue would have been; three, customer lifetime revenue and value are thus
substantially higher; and, four, for the transition, initial revenue and profit headwinds turned into
tailwinds overtime. And all that is for just like-for-like comparison that still excludes the up-sell
potential I have mentioned.
By 2025, the implications should get us to a total revenue, greater than EUR36 billion with cloud
revenue comfortably eclipsing all other revenue streams combined at more than EUR22 billion.
This is why it is now even more important to expand our cloud gross margin. And to do that, we
are now taking the final step in modernizing and harmonizing our cloud delivery, which I'll talk
about next.
Before going into the details, let me first put this into perspective a bit. Early last year, you
reminded us that after years of rapid acquisition driven cloud expansion, SAP's structures and
processes had reached a level of complexity, and in some cases franking redundancy that called
for reforms. You are right. We answered by setting up the Best Run transformation programs
aimed at improving organizational efficiency and agility at the same time. One of the key aspects
of Best Run is increasing the efficiency of our cloud delivery. And we have already made great
progress in that regard as shown by the cloud gross margin expansion over the last two years.
But in order to obtain the full benefits of our cloud delivery modernization, we need to take a final
step.
As you can see on the left of this slide, we have already completed most of the required steps of
our cloud delivery remodernization.
The final remaining step now is to lift a part of our cloud customer base that is still running on ourother words our modernized and harmonized 4 +1 cloud delivery. And we are now planning to
accelerate this move and complete most of that lift already by end of 2022.
We expect this to drive a temporary acceleration of cloud investments through 2022, but the
benefits of doing this will be significant. It will increase capacity utilization, it will allow us to
procure infrastructure or infrastructure services at scale and to automate managed services.
That's what will allow us to achieve a cloud gross margin of approximately 80% by 2025.
On top, it further increases the stability and resiliency of our cloud solutions and speeds up
innovation, even in the applications driving customer success and thus cloud revenue via more
cross-selling and higher revenues. Again, that is what our customers rightly expect from us, and
we have every intend to deliver.
So this all then comes together in the new 2025 ambition. The combined impact of what we just
discussed means that over the next two years, we expect to see muted growth of revenue
accompanied by a flat to slightly lower operating profit. After 2022, momentum will pick up
considerably lower. The initial headwinds of the accelerated cloud transition will start to turn into
tailwinds for revenue and profit. In addition, we will have completed our increased investment into
the accelerated cloud delivery modernization. And that translates into accelerated revenue
growth and double-digit operating profit growth from 2023 onwards.
And so by 2025, we expect this trajectory to take us to cloud revenue greater than EUR22 billion,
total revenue, greater than EUR36 billion and an operating profit of greater than EUR11.5 billion.
This 2025 ambition also means that; one, we will significantly increase our share of cloud revenue
making it by far the primary revenue stream; two, we will significantly increase our more
predictable revenue share to about 85%; and three, we will continue to focus on bottom line
efficiency. Rest assured that we will continue to drive the best run project.
Streamlining SAP and setting it up for efficiency, simplicity and sustainable long-term success
aiming to come out of the transition with sustainable double-digit operating profit growth from
2023 to 2025 and beyond.
I'll now hand back to Christian for closing remarks.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Luka. And before we come to Q&A, let me close it out.
We recognized this is a significant change when compared to the previous strategy in former
2023 ambition. We are at an inflection point. Our customers are asking up to help accelerate
debt business transformation to gain resiliency and position them to much stronger out of the
crisis. We see that as a unique opportunity to partner with our customers on that journey in a way
that only SAP can. In large part due to our deep knowledge of business policies, our innovative
solutions and technology and the trust we have established over our overweighting history. That's
why we have adapted our strategy and financial ambition.
As the CEO of SAP, I firmly believe a prioritizing sustainable value creation has to be our top
priority. Therefore we will not to wait the success of our customers and the significant growth
potential of SAP, again, short term margin maximization.
Now let's open it up for questions.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. Thank you very much. I hand it back to the moderator. You can now start the Q&A session,
please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll now take our first question. This question comes from
`Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Good afternoon. And thanks very much for taking the question. I've got two please. Maybe just
first of all, you've made very clear that there is a big move to cloud underway, and I think
everybody will understand that. But in the past you've given customers choice in terms of how
they pay wherever they run between bringing licenses to hosting deals or paying subscription. We
understand that to you there's a higher lifetime value of customer in subscription, and obviously
for customers, that means, then the paying you more over the lifetime. So could you maybe just
help us understand why these large SAP customers now want to run on subscription? Are you
foreseeing that transition? Or you continue to give choice? So any help you can give us on why
that changes happening would be useful and then maybe secondly, on cloud revenue. You
highlight now there's a much bigger part of that going to come from cannibalization as on-prem
moves to cloud. Is there any way you could help us understand what the underlying growth of
new business in the cloud is going to run-out versus how much of that kind of revenue is going to
come incrementally from cannibalizing the on-premise? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks a lot, Adam. Let me start and then look at how you can build on top of that. I mean,
first, what we have seen in the last six months is definitely when I'm talking to the CEO, look, I
mean for many enterprises, the supply chain is disrupted. They've sometimes don't even know,
can they produce and deliver the next day? And that is the inflection point of our customers
where they are saying, hey, I really want to move now to the cloud. I want to have a resilient
operations. Why should I still operate my own IT data center? So that's the first point. And then
the second point is doing a business transformation, Adam, is not easy. So you have to change
how a company works, you have to redesign business process. And also our customers, including
the large ones believe and let move to the cloud and also let SAP help us to transform our
business, show us the best practices you ask for the digital age. Let us standardize our solution.
And now that the platform is ready, let's also build the exemptions in the cloud and really
consume regular innovations on the fly. So besides the commercial aspect, it's really about the
resiliency and the transformation of their business. And where is this cloud revenue going to
come from? Yes, of course, there is a change. There is accelerated move of our installed base to
the cloud. But second, this quarter, you have heard me saying 45% of our S/4 HANA Cloud
customers are net new, which speaks for the competitiveness of the solution finally, and second,
that we will also win in the years to come further market share, not only in S/4, but we are really
also will double down on HR, procurement on CX and focused areas on CX and we will also
invest into new innovation the industry cloud. I mean all of our customers are saying, all in, please
help us to really digitize also our industry-related business processes. Because, you know what,
again, it all goes back into our ERP, it all goes back into our supply chain. Let's try massive
business transformation on your platform with the Industry cloud in conjunction with our LOB
applications. And third, you had Adaire talking about land, adopt on few many expand by putting
all of our customers facing functions together. First, you heard me saying, our customersatisfaction score increased quite significantly and we are convinced that we will also see high
tenure wait in the future? And with that Luka, Adaire, any comments?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so I -- just to quickly add, I mean, there is undoubtedly going to be some cannibalization
effect from customers moving from established life and support agreements over -- to
subscription. However, that is actually not the majority of the growth that we are expecting. We
actually assume that we can run a Pega that is approaching 20% with the new solution we are
adding an Industry Cloud business network and other edge-based areas that we have discussed
before the business technology platform growth that we expect, as well as also the uptick that
we expect coming out of the COVID crisis again from some of the solutions that have particularly
suffered now, that are actually clear market leaders, and therefore can be expected to actually
expand their lead and reach after the crisis is over, such as Corona. So the cannibalization impact
at stands -- so to say the cream on top of the growth rates, but it's not major, let alone the
exclusive driver of growth.
And we will be transparent with you. We will -- starting next year if you clear metrics of the
number of customers that have transformed from installed base legacy license arrangements on
two new subscription options, as well as net new customers that we're adding to this as well. You
know this reporting from the S/4HANA side, but we will break it out with a particular view to the
cloud starting from next year.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks. Next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead. Your line is now
open.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you. Yes, good afternoon. Maybe I could ask a couple as well. The first is around the
customer relationship. I mean a sense within this guidance that you are increasing the emphasis
of SAP owning the customer relationship or providing infrastructure or at least passing through
more within your own contractual terms as the hyperscale infrastructure. So, can I ask you what
that means for your own highest expectations as we look out through this transition? And
particularly, as we look out to the 80% gross margin target for the cloud, I'm trying to think about
the mix of clients within that? And the second question is really just a simple one around the cost
investments. There are a lot of moving parts within the numbers. I just wondered, if you look at
the 4 percentage points to 5 percentage points change that you've put out there for 2023, can
you just help us with the split there in your own modeling between the gross profit impact from
the lower revenue in the transition, look that you spoke reverses the magnitude of the
incremental investment that will be annualizing in the business at that point? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `And maybe I can start and then, Luca, you can again build on top of that. When you said it, where
we were, actually, it's about owning the customer relationship, when it comes to their business
transformation. This was wide. So key now for SAP that the SAP cloud platform is really the
foundation of all of our cloud applications. And that we are actually also delivering the integration
for hyperscalers that we have no platform and now that we are making tremendous progress on
the integration form. We have maturing our business services on top of that platform. So think
about it, when there is one semantical data model, now we can tell our partners why to modify
the ERP, let's come to the platform and build the extension there because there is now one
semantical data model, there's a workflow, there's the auto-recession. That's everything what
you need to seamlessly expand the SAP solution portfolio. And this is why on top of our
infrastructure to service business, definitely we want to push now the platform and we definitely
also want to push all the applications from the software to services business, but that now comes
together. At the end, we are selling not the products, we are selling now the digital intelligent
enterprise, we are selling business processes with the time and for the digital age. This is what
we are doing, and this is what we will also position in the years to come.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And to build on that, it's very important to understand that we are not positioning an
infrastructure as a service solution. Yeah. The positioning and a holistic solution moving our
customers to the cloud and I'm transforming and modernizing the landscape based on our new
ERP application architecture. This offering is therefore a software as a service offering and not an
infrastructure as a service offering where the customer basically would just bring a license and
then we would do the application management on top. That's just very important. And, therefore,
this still not have a bearing on infrastructure as a service. And secondly, on the margin side, we
are, of course, anticipating the margin inflow from those additional customers that we're getting
in core ERP together with the development of the rest of the portfolio to ultimately then reach
the 80% gross margin by 2025. And just to also clarify on 2020 suites, the investments that we
are looking to put in and that we are planning to make to kind of reach the homestretch of our
converged cloud modernization, are actually already going to turn into an operating profit
tailwinds in 2023. So this is not negatively affecting 2023 any longer. The impact on 2023 margins
is basically due to the change revenue mix that we assume and the shift of the business model to
ratable recognition, which will then turn basically increasingly into a tailwind that will allow us to
catch up and actually increase the margin again starting from 2023. So from that perspective,
those incremental investments are actually immediately accretive to operating profit starting
already in the year after their summit.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And let's take the next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead. Your
line is now open.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo `Great. Thank you for taking my question. A question for Christian and Adaire. If I think back to the
financial crisis, obviously, there are a lot of projects that were delayed into -- in later '08/'09. But
these are a catch-up in 2010-2011 in terms of just the license sales, and in other words projects
just getting pushed. How do you think about our current situation? Obviously, you mentioned
project is going to be delayed and pushed. What are customers telling you about, hey, are those
projects -- have really been pushed, have they been changed, how they've been shifted to the
cloud and so the shape of the recovery is just simply different. I mean how should we think about
just sort of this crisis versus the financial crisis in terms of how you think about sort of the shape or
the recovery and what customers are telling you?
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, Executive Board Member, Customer Success Organization `
Yes. Thanks, Philip, for the question. I'll go first, then perhaps Christian or Luka can add any
comments if they have them. I think when we described projects being pushed, I would describe
it as the scale and the scope of the projects being pushed. I think it's very clear and analysis that
we have with our customers, that everybody understand the need for the digitization of key
business processes. So that agility becomes part of their business landscape. So it isn't that the
project is stopped. It isn't that -- it isn't a journey that the customer is on. I would describe it as a
much more staged approach, then the approaches that we've seen in the past, where the work
will continue over a period of time and we can see that even in our own services utilization, where
we still have a very significant number in terms of utilized stays in our services business. So I see it
really as a more recurring element of project stages that the customer commits to rather than a
large scale program of work initially and that's being what's underpinning some of the
conversations that we've had with our customers.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And I can just comment on the cloud revenue side. I mean, obviously, we are talking a lot
about concur. And yes, if you exclude our concur business for travel and expense management,
our cloud revenue would be up by 20%. Our Software-as-a-Service solutions are increasing 26%
(inaudible) days now will deceleration. And also in all fairness to Concur, I mean after the quietest,
this is the market-leading solution in the market full stop, and there will be, of course, a bounce
back. It, of course, depends on when can we travel again? When is business travel coming up? So
all today, I'm extremely confident that this business will, of course, come back. It's just a question
of timing.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. We move to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Two from me as well. Just in terms of the cloud gross margin
trajectory, Luka, obviously, some investments for the next couple of years. Previously you were
looking for a 75% gross margin in 2023. Could you give us a feel of whether that's still intact? And
also, how much lower the cloud gross margin might go in the next couple of years? And then,
secondly, also for you. I think on the free cash flow side, previously, you had a target of EUR8billion in 2023. I suspect, that's no longer there. But can you talk about cash flow out of '25? And
on the CapEx side of things, give some reassurance about what where that might go to? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So let me start with the cloud gross margin. I mean you've seen that we have continued to
make progress even in 2020 despite the deceleration that we have seen in our intelligence
spend group, which as by far the highest gross margin. And even Concur has still managed to
increase its cloud gross margin despite their unique challenges that they are having. So I think it's
very clear that we have an utmost focus as a company on this. And the investments, as I said, that
we are planning for next year and the year after to accelerate the harmonization of our cloud
delivery infrastructure to our converged cloud as I said before, on the question of James, I think it
was -- it will be immediately accretive starting from 2023. So from that perspective, we believe
that there is no reason to anticipate any departure from what we had in mind for 2023. And
obviously, then see further acceleration up to the 80% that we are planning for 2025. For 2021
and 2022, we definitely -- you should assume that there is actually a slowing in progress, because
we need to make the investments first, not all of them will flow into cost of cloud to be also quite
precise. We will also see some investments in cost of R&D to make sure that some of the
solutions that we have not yet fully shifted can run optimally on the new infrastructure. But of
course, a lot of it will hit cost of cloud and therefore the progress in the next two years will be
more muted as well.
From a free cash flow perspective, look, first of all, we have made tremendous progress,
obviously, this year, not only are we back to the levels of operating and free cash flow that we
had committed at last year's Capital Markets Day where we, of course, had a completely
different profit expectation for our business in 2020. But we are actually seeing even an
improvement against this original ambition when it comes to free cash flow. So something has
happened here, which I believe is also going to be sustainable. And that is an improved and more
disciplined working capital management and cash collection management. I have to give Adaire
and her team, a lot of credit here as well. And they have certainly intensified their collaboration
with our collection teams. And I believe that collaboration is sustainable and should continue to
yield results also after the prices. Nevertheless, you're obviously right that the free cash flow that
we had anticipated for 2023 is also pack to a significant to the profit levels that we are expecting.
And since, we are now expecting to reach these profit levels with -- around about two years
delay, be a free cash flow levels should also be expected to then also only be achieved in 2025,
having said that, that is a generalized statement based on all else being equal. And there are a
couple of factors that still play a role in this on the positive side, as we have discussed when
Qualtrics completes their IPO. Their previous cash-settled programs under the SAP set up in plan
design would to a largest extend convert to equity settled programs and that will have some
relief as a consequence when it comes to the cash flow. On the flip side, in 2021 and 2022, we
expect even though our CapEx spend will remain muted still a moderate step up from today's
very low levels due to COVID in order to procure some of the additional infrastructure elements
that we need for our own converged cloud. And so, those two factors will, at a certain extent,
balance out each other, perhaps, providing a small tailwind, but other than that, of course, cash
flow follows the profits.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. And Christian, could you maybe give us impact into the customer base on S/4 today?
We got 8,100 live. How many of them would actually be on either the private cloud or the multi-
tenant addition of S/4?A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so -- thanks for the question. I mean, first, we have seen a massive acceleration of the
move also to the cloud version of S/4HANA. As I mentioned before, COVID was indeed an
inflection point. And we will see this acceleration in the years to come, also for some large
enterprise customers. And we will put them on the wide deployment model. This is really then, of
course, relating to how standardized that the customer, how designed out the processes to really
fit into the standard, how consolidated is the IT landscape? So we will make that work depending
on the departure of the customer. And then second, for us, it's very important that we, of course,
leveling the differentiating capabilities. And next year, the public cloud version will have 80% of
the functionality, but today our on-premise version has a significant, and we have to deliver a new
configuration where you can change processes on the fly we infuse AI. And just to give you an
example, because so much talk about the value of S/4. Just last week I had an automotive
customer of SAP. And he said, Christian, because of the move to S/4 and running on HANA, we
actually could optimize our inventory. And they have saving costs over EUR200 million, because
now suddenly we can change our inventory and check it real time and can adjust it based on the
demand what we are seeing. And especially in times like these, where you have such dynamic
markets that is a huge, huge value for. And this is something what we will go in to push further.
And with the new strategy, we're going to invest further in innovation. We invest further in R&D
because this is the way to go. This is what our customers want.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And just to be precise, so currently we have close to 3,000 S/4 cloud customers.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Alex Zukin, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets from RBC Capital Markets. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Alex Zukin, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thank you, guys for taking my question. So just a quick one from me. Can you talk to how much of
the delay in the spend that you're seeing or in the larger sales cycle is due to macro versus
evaluating some of your new cloud solutions? And if you think about the 2025 vision,
approximately what percentage of customers, do you expect to shift over the next kind of two
years to three years? Or is there a late cycle accelerated proportion of customers that are going
to shipped over?
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, Executive Board Member, Customer Success Organization `
Thanks for the question, Alex. I'll take the first part. And in terms of the delay that we described, I
would say it is less about the evaluation process and more about the uncertainty of the
conditions. And at the start of the COVID process, we were in the fortunate position to be able
to pivot our sales force to a virtual engagement of our customer base. And we have had and -- inorganization and we were able to expand the use of those tools and techniques right across the
entirety of our sales team. So we still managed to maintain a high level of engagement with our
customers albeit that we probably haven't met many customers typically in the last seven months.
Therefore, the delays tend to be delays around uncertainty in the business model, uncertainty in
the business world and uncertainty, I think, relative to the industry that the customer operates in
much more than to the evaluation process, which is proceeding as per norm, albeit virtually.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And to your second part of the question, I mean, we will, of course, give customers choice also in
the future. But COVID will be in a solid way then. It really depends on the departure point of the
customer. Look, when you -- we have customers, mid-sized services have been -- would be --
they celebrate go lives with S/4HANA cloud in 20 days. That's possible. That's absolutely
possible. We have large enterprise customers. They are now shifting the workloads to the cloud.
But of course, then it takes more time to redesign the processes, to come to and stand up to
move the modifications out of the ERP. So this will now happen at an accelerated pace, but every
customer will move with its own speed.
Q - `Alex Zukin, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. Thank you. Understood. And --
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Go ahead, Alex.
Q - `Alex Zukin, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Yes, I just -- I wanted to ask, is there a good -- like, what's the right KPI for us to think about the
midpoint as to give us -- to give investors comfort in kind of that transition versus customers
moving to a competitor back into a competitor? What's the right KPI to look at for us during this
transition point around that cloud revenue on that?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. In my point of view, it's really the number of migrated customers. As you know, we have
slightly more than 30,000 classic ERP customers, not systems. We have way more systems. But in
terms of just customer count that's what we have. And we have 15,000 customers for S/4HANA
out there. As I said, close to 3,000 of them in the cloud. So that means another 12,000 basically
ended up license on-premise. And in the next couple of years, we want to move many thousands
of those customers. And then, of course also, net new customers to our core ERP cloud solutions.
And therefore, we intend to give you in the future absolutely regular recurring updates as part of
the earnings process on those numbers and certainly the progress that we have achieved there,
where we will now break out between the different deployment forms that should give you you
the confidence that we are arriving fully in the cloud come 2025.
Q - `Alex Zukin, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Perfect. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Let's take the next question, please.Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Charlie Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Charlie Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great. Thanks very much for taking my questions. I'm going to go with two as well if that's
possible. Firstly, just a clarification on your cash flow comments. I'm surprised you didn't commit to
EUR8 billion of free cash flow, given the variables of Qualtrics and CapEx should be in that
tailwinds. Are there any other variables we should be considering? For instance, is there any
chance of another restructuring program as you come to terms of scale of the change over the
next couple of years? And then secondly on a separate product related issue, how important is
owning the platform layer of the stack in the strategy and to what extent do you think you've
given up Mindshare to Microsoft and Google and how hard is it going to be to claw back that
Mindshare with customers? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, first of all, on the cash flow side, you are absolutely right, of course, we will have
benefits from the Qualtrics IPO and, of course, we also continue to have benefits as you have
seen in the significantly reduced levels of CapEx that we had in the last two years from our
collaboration with the hyperscalers. But that being said, still the source of free cash flow on the
operating cash flow side is not entirely decoupled from the level of profit that we can drive as a
company. And as we are achieving that level of profits basically with a two-year shift in 2025 for
our ambition that we have put out there, that's when also I absolutely would expect that we are
able to try for those EUR8 billion in free cash flow. In the meantime, I very much believe that we
actually can do better, all else equal, on -- in terms of the cash flow generation because we have
increased our cash inflow efficiency, our cash collection effectiveness and our working capital
management. However, that will not be able to fully equalize the lower profit levels that we are
now anticipating in the next few years before that accelerates back again.
And perhaps on the platform side, Christian?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Happy to take it, Luka. I mean, this is a very valid question and the platform, a business platform
definitely needs to be owned by SAP. And now moving our cloud applications over to this
platform by following the integration issue, by making sure that every of our application is
showing the same data model, is showing the same authorization and workload service, that
actually will also make sure that the platform will just become a natural part of everything we are
doing going forward. That's not anymore a standalone platform, that's our business
transformation platform, let's call it like that where we then also want to shift the ecosystem to. I
mean, today, a lot of our SI partners are building bill extensions in the on-premise world. We really
now ask them and also incentivize them to chain up, to move up with us to the cloud and build
the extensions on the platform because now they can do it also in a much more seamless way.
Yes, the platform is of the -- has the highest importance. And again if the platform then comes all
-- comes out for SAP HANA and HANA means we get customers choice. There they can either
choose the hyperscaler infrastructure, they can choose the SAP infrastructure, that was already
there in the past and that has to be proven the wide strategy.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `Okay, thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore from Evercore. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore `
Thank you. If I could sneak in two, I'll try to as well. I guess just to be very clear Luka on the cloud
revenue adjustment, outside of currency, is really that from a business perspective just simply
Concur for the next year? Meaning it sounds like Qualtrics had a good quarter, the other parts of
the cloud business seem to be going well. Is there any other down shifts, I mean, Concur it makes
sense, while you're expecting a more slow rebound, but I just wanted to double check on that.
And then I guess maybe for Adaire and/or Christian, the question is going to come up a lot is,
why are you all seeing delays when a lot of other software companies are frankly starting to see
things pick back up, is it the mix of your business around more impacted industries, is it -- as you
look I think Adaire mentioned bigger ERP projects just simply getting chopped up into smaller
deals or having to rethink that? I think the big question I've got from investors today is, why are
you all sort of seeing this whereas at least over the last month or two we haven't seen it, perhaps
everything just came -- kind of came to ahead in September, but if you could discuss that a little
bit I think it'd be helpful? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, let me first start. So, first of all, it's not only Concur, what we are seeing in terms of impact
for the full year. We're not talking about next year yet, by the way, so just to make sure that we're
talking about 2020. But Concur is about half the impact that we are seeing, another quarter is the
rest of intelligence spend. You probably have seen that in our segment reporting, we are
showing that Concur is down in the quarter by 11%, and that is a business that otherwise would be
expected to grow somewhere in the teens. And that is across all Q2 due to COVID, but it's also
the case that transactional revenues in Ariba, for example, are not as high as we would have
expected for the same reasons. I mean, due to COVID, a lot of companies are cutting back on
spend, and if you have lower spend, then of course also spend network like Ariba showing less
variable expenses. It's still growing, that's the difference to Concur, but you have seen that
intelligence spend overall in the quarter was down by 3 percentage points and that, of course,
means that also Ariba is down to a lower level than what otherwise would have been the case.
And then the rest of the last quarter, it's really a slight reduction in our renewal rates or new cloud
bookings across the entire rest of the spectrum versus the levels that we would have targeted
and planned for in a normal pre-COVID business as usual scenario. Having said that, however,
that's something that we had planned for, the big shift is that on the transactional revenues, we
had originally anticipated a recovery in the second half year, which we are now not planning for
anymore.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And I mentioned already the growth rate we are seeing in our Software-as-a-service and
platform as a Service business and with 26%, I would say we are definitely also lying in the upper
hand also compared to competition, so this business developed under this circumstance is
extremely well and there's of course also high confidence that for the next year that we will see
similar growth and then of course also we are talking about an evaluation later in the second half-year of 2021. As -- when we talk supply chain, when we talk experience management, when we
talk finance, changing license models for our customers, selling subscription, selling paying
subscriptions. These are all solutions, which are highly relevant for our customers. So, yes, there is
a high confidence that we will definitely also see a re-acceleration then next year.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
And perhaps to close this out, it works both ways. While in a classic subscription model, the
slowdown in revenues due to such a crisis situation of course is happening at a slower pace. But
on the other hand side to accelerate a subscription business also takes its time because, first,
you need to go through the selling and the installation and then you start to recognize revenues
installation and then you start to recognize revenues in a business network model that is
transaction volume-based, like with Concur and Ariba, both happens faster. So, the downturn
happens faster, but also once the business picks up again and the spend increases and travel is
happening again, then of course the variable on revenues also start to kick in immediately. And
hence that's why we assume that if the COVID restrictions are lifted, then as of the second half-
year, we will see actually a quite fast reacceleration back to normal levels.
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, Executive Board Member, Customer Success Organization `
And finally maybe, Kirk, let me address the question around the delay. So, first of all, I think it's
important to place this in the context of the overarching portfolio of SAP. So, we have a very
broad portfolio of products, which is something that of course continues to make us extremely
relevant to our customers. In some of our pure-play SaaS solutions, we just find a program that
we call amplify, which was a program focused on low upfront investment on deployment in days
and weeks and very quick value realization for our customer base. And in those scenarios, we
definitely saw some uptake of those solutions because the gap between speed and value was
very, very small. And we saw over a 110 new customers over 1,100 deals under the auspices of
that particular program.
Then when you look at the actual underpinning business transformation, that is predicated on S4
as a core, I guess, the first point of discussion with customers is around cost and managing and
mitigating cost in the current environment. And there are series of activities that can be done to
help manage that. Then the second range of conversations is about the migration itself or about
the journey to value. And in the context of that, there are different departure points each of our
customers, of course, has a very unique environment today, but then also different destination
points. And it is a matter of looking at that in a modular way, so that over the lifetime of that
transformation journey, you're delivering value all along the way in relation to the priorities that
the customers have set.
And I do think there was an element of timing in terms of the last month of Q3 and as some of
the changes that we saw in the resurgence of COVID at the point where we had transactions in
closed process. So, I think a combination of those things, we have different portfolios with
different profiles of solution sets, long-term transformation becoming modular and then a little to
do with the timing of our Q end.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore `
That's helpful. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research from Bernstein Research.
Please go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you very much and I appreciate. I have two parts to my question. The first is, if the
transactional headwind from COVID is expected to be over within the next year to two, then how
should we think about 2023 in the transactional business? Is there going to be a permanent delay
on the transactional side that you're modeling in? Or should it bounce back equivalently? And
then as a second question, for new sales, which used to create license, how big a step down are
you now expecting in license sales specifically through 2023? Is -- basically, should we be figuring
license sales are basically going away by 2023? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Perhaps I'll start with the last one and Adaire please augment this. I mean, licenses would
not certainly go away by 2023. However, they will certainly continue to decline, and I would
estimate at a similar rate of what we are seeing now in 2020. And on the transactional business
side, I see no reason why in two years' time assuming that COVID is really past and behind us
sometime next year, that the transactional revenues should not by 2023 be back at the level that
they were before in 2019 and grow from there as they have done in the past. Sorry?
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, Executive Board Member, Customer Success Organization `
All good.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Okay, good. So, that makes this joint statement from Adaire and myself, then it must be
true.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Chandra Sriraman, Analyst. Please go ahead. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Chandra Sriraman, Analyst
Yeah. Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. A couple, if I may. So, when I look at
your 2025 guidance, if my calculations are correct, there is a mid single-digit drop in maintenance
revenues through 2025. Now, I just wanted to check if the cloud business will be profitable
enough to compensate for this drop as we go beyond 2023? And how should we see the move
or the substitution of maintenance subscription beyond 2023?The second question is more of a clarification. Luka, you mentioned that these ERP customers will
move to the SaaS, PaaS model. So, I was just wondering, would you continue selling the
infrastructure as a service or will these customers Infrastructure-as-a-Service or will these
customers be migrated to the SaaS-PaaS model? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So perhaps first with the question on maintenance versus cloud. I mean that is one of the
reasons why we are now accelerating and planning to kind of complete the migration to a
converged cloud infrastructure more quickly because that is giving us a step-up in the cloud
efficiency that on a gross margin level already is in striking distance with Software and Support
business. And that is very positive, because if you then assume from a long-term perspective,
that the cloud business has an ever-increasing share of renewal components that are
commanding a lower commission rates than a net new sale actually on the operating margin
level, and the cloud will then quickly catch up with the efficiency levels of our on-premise business.
You've actually seen a part of that already at work today. But of course, that impact will be
significantly higher even once we have built such a high base of Cloud revenues.
And on the Infrastructure-as-a-Service piece, I think you will see over time that certainly a growing
proportion of our existing HANA Enterprise Cloud customers will move over to a more holistic
SaaS offering that gives them the entire scope including also subscription. We actually offer this to
our customers within the HANA Enterprise Cloud already today as an option. But given our
increased capabilities in the cloud that we are looking at, I think it will increase significantly now in
attractiveness and will lead to more of pure HANA Enterprise Cloud customers making the move
over.
Q - `Chandra Sriraman, Analyst
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Julian Serafini, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead, your line is now
open.
Q - `Julian Serafini, Analyst, Jefferies `
All right, thank you for taking my question. I have two questions. I think number one is on, Luka, I
believe you mentioned the cloud uplift multiplier that was around 2 times maintenance. Can you
confirm that? So that would imply roughly a five-year crossover on the revenue side, assuming all
things equal, that when a call contract would be revenue accretive for SAP?
And the second question is on sales compensation probably for, Adaire. Will there be changes to
sales compensation going forward? And I guess to emphasize more products away from the
license and maintenance model?A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
I can quickly go first. So it's actually a bit more than twice to support revenue. If you apply a
multiplier or actually if you apply a 0.45 multiplier to EUR1 million license contract, plus 20%
support that would translate into a EUR450,000 subscription at equal value. So slightly more than
twice.
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, Executive Board Member, Customer Success Organization `
Hi, Julian. Thank you for the question. Sales compensation is certainly one lever that facilitates
change and transformation. This year, as Christian mentioned in his opening remarks, we brought
together all of the customer-facing resources of SAP into a single organizational unit, and that
includes not just sales, but also all of the services resources of the company, together with all of
the customer-facing post-sales support resources.
We underpinned this organizational change with an operating model that focuses not just on the
landing or the bringing of a new customer into the SAP family but also focuses very much on the
adoption and the consumption of SAP solutions in order to drive business outcome and business
value for our customer. Therefore, in addition to this organizational change, in addition to this new
operating model. In addition to the appropriate management and governance over the top of
that, we will, of course, look at our compensation plans in order to ensure that they're aligned
with that strategy.
And as I mentioned, that strategy focuses as much on the adoption and the consumption of our
software as it does on the initial and transaction with our customer base. I also get a sense that
the question was around how we would be addressing or directing our sales force's efforts
around different elements of the portfolio? I think it's important again to emphasize that we have
always been predicated on choice for our customers and we will continue to be predicated on
choice. There are absolutely some customers that for a variety of reasons would want to remain
in an 0n-premise world. However, there is no doubt that the vast majority of our customers are
orientated towards this cloud migration and our compensation will take that into consideration.
Q - `Julian Serafini, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn Partners from Redburn Partners. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn Partners `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my questions. I've got a couple if I may. Firstly, Luka, could you
confirm in your response to previous question that we should think modeling the maintenance
revenues declining mid-single-digit level by the time we get beyond 2023, was that you seems to
be confirming or not?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `Yes, mid-single-digit negative decline CAGR given the accelerated transformation to the cloud is
directionally correct.
Q - `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn Partners `
Okay, and then just looking at the slides, I think I understand the revenue trajectory for cloud
obviously, but you think the reference in the slide deck that you're going to invest in Industry
Cloud functionality. Other than the Industry Cloud functionality where are specifically the other
investments coming through that hit the profitability so much in '21 and '22?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, on the '21 and '22 thing, that is really related to planned infrastructure harmonization
investments. So we are migrating customers that are still sitting on the legacy infrastructures of
some of our -- in particular the acquired cloud solutions, but also some of our own developed
solutions to our converged cloud. And that has infrastructure investments, that has some, as I
said, development efforts attached to it to optimize the performance of those solutions on the
new infrastructure. And of course, it also includes the pure migration costs for our customers. So
that has nothing to do with investments, that we are doing as part of our portfolio process on the
R&D side to build out new organic solutions, which we are nevertheless are doing as well. And
that's industry clouds and that it's also other areas of the portfolio, we're investing significantly
also in our business technology platform. And of course, we continue to invest in those solutions,
where we clearly have a leading position in the market and want to retain it as well.
Q - `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn Partners `
Okay. So (inaudible) to ask it as a final question. But in the past when you talked about the
converged cloud infrastructure, you've obviously talked about migrating over that SuccessFactors,
which I think has slightly begun by the first half of last year. If you look at the proportion of
subscribers or users on the legacy like a deadline of business cloud solutions, what in total also
have been migrated over to the converged cloud infrastructure? And how much of those legacy
line of business users need to move over to the news to the cloud infrastructure now?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So thanks for raising this question, because I think it allows me to clarify something. The
migrations, that we have been talking about SuccessFactors and also Ariba, they were database
migrations. We were migrating the underlying third party database to HANA, and that was giving
us already significant benefits and you see them in the cloud gross margins to-date. What we
have also done is we have made sure that all of our core solutions run on one or more
hyperscalers and on our converged cloud infrastructure. What we have not done yet is migrating
all of the existing customers that are sitting on the previous legacy infrastructures over to the new
one. And that is what we are now giving a strong push and what we are looking to accelerate
forward.
And once we have accomplished this, we can retire legacy platforms and we have various other
benefits in terms of automation that we can leverage for greater efficiencies. But the database
migration that was what we were talking about in the past and indeed this has been
accomplished already with the current positive benefits for cloud margins that we are seeing
already in our actual current numbers.
Q - `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn Partners `And so we can assume that as roughly a 100% are still -- in terms of users are a still on their
existing legacy platform today, is that correct?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
No, that's not right, because we have already since some time started to on-board new
customers on those converge cloud landscapes but it's correct that still a majority of the existing
customers are on those legacy platforms and that's what we are going to move over quickly now.
Q - `Neil Steer, Analyst, Redburn Partners `
Yes. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Looking at the time. I think we have time for one final question.
Operator
Thank you. We'll will now take our last question from `Patrick Walravens, Analyst, JMP from JMP. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Walravens, Analyst, JMP `
Oh, great, thank you. And maybe this is a good way to wrap it up. So, Christian, thank you for all
the commentary in detail today. Given the stock drops, which I think is the biggest in quite a while,
if there is one key message you'd like to convey to your investors here, what would that be?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
So thanks a lot for that, for that question. And indeed, of course, coming from the stock price you
see that we actually made today decisions, which is actually -- it's a response to the needs of our
customers. And look, as the CEO of SAP, I cannot hold on to our financial mid-term ambition,
which is actually against, the needs of our customers. When they want to move, and they want to
transform, when they want to see more organic innovations from SAP, this is for me, on the long-
term the right thing to do for SAP. And this is actually my top priorities as the CEO of this
company and this is why we are doing this change. And one thing for sure because also related
to the last question, we are not getting sluggish on our commitment also to drive profitable
growth in the future. I mean, all the impacts we are now seeing is weather-related
macroeconomic or you see the revenue mix effect coming through. And -- but all the other
productivity parameters, no matter if it's go-to-market related, G&A related, we are not getting
sluggish. We will of course also have a high focus on productivity.
And on the investment side, on the cloud operations. I mean, when you are now doing this
massive shift and already tripling your cloud revenues towards 2025, you don't want to feed your
money into some legacy cloud infrastructure. This is why we want to do our homework now and
come back with double-digit growth on operating profit from 2023 onwards on because again I
don't want to feed money into legacy infrastructure. This is why we are doing this in combination.
And as I said, finally to wrap it up, we are doing it for our customers.
Q - `Patrick Walravens, Analyst, JMP `
Thank you very much.A - `Stefan Gruber, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you Pat for your last question. This concludes our earnings call for today. Thank you
all for joining and you can now disconnect. Bye-bye.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Bye-bye.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Take care.