Q3 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Tesla Q3 2020 Financial
Results and Q&A Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the
speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Mr. `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations, Senior Director
of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you Sherry and good afternoon everyone, and welcome to Tesla's third quarter 2020 Q&A
webcast. I'm joined today by `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer and a number of other executives. Our
Q3 results were announced at about 1 PM Pacific time in the update deck we published at the
same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow up (Operator Instructions).
But before we jump into the Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Martin. All right. So Q3 was our best quarter in history. We achieved the record production
deliveries, record revenue, record net income, both GAAP and non-GAAP and record free cash
flow of $1.4 billion. This is really due to the amazing execution by the Tesla team. I could not be
more proud to work with such a great group of people. Just really kickass performance across --
throughout the world.
Of course, we had our Battery Day. So we hosted -- showed our plans for how we can expand in
the future and improve core battery technology, core cell technology at the form factor level,
chemistry level and I think more significantly at the manufacturing technology level. There's only --
a comment I made in the past is that I think Tesla's long-term competitive strength will be
primarily manufacturing. This is counterintuitive, but I'm quite confident this will be what happens.
All right. So we presented what the team has been working on for a long time with batteries. We
wanted to step back and really rethink batteries from scratch. First (inaudible) thinking, just look at
it from the fundamental physics and say what -- rather than compared to other products in the
market, just say from a physics standpoint, if you -- what's the limit of physics? What's the
photonic [ph] idea of a perfect cell and how close can we get there? And that was our aspiration.
And I think we've got a pretty good approach to it, which will only get better over time. And we
went through all of the interesting solutions for every important part of that design and
production. And we'll continue to iterate on that and just recursively improve the core cell and
battery technology.
The result, we think, in a few years, will be batteries that cost half as much and where the capital
expenditures required are a third or less of what they are today. And we expect Giga Berlin will
see our first battery cell production line at scale.
Regarding the Full Self-Driving beta release, the auto power team, again, just a really all-star
team -- I spent a lot of time with the auto power team. And there's a lot of really talented people
in that team who've worked incredibly hard to make the -- to get the beta release out. So, I'd just
really like to thank them for their hard work and it's just a very smart group of people. So, I think
we're starting very slow and very cautiously because the world is a complex and messy place.
And so we're -- we put it out there last night, and then we'll see how it goes and then probably
release it to more people this weekend or early next week. And then just gradually step it up until
we have, hopefully, a wide release by the end of this year.
And of course, as the system collects more data, and -- it becomes more robust. So it's sort of
like how does Google as a search engine get better? It's because everyone is programming it by
asking questions all the time and clicking on particular links. So, it's got this great feedback --
we've -- and that makes it an extremely effective search engine. It's the same thing for autonomy.
Having on the order of 1 million cars that are providing feedback and specifically feedback on
strange corner case situations that you just can't even come up with in simulation. This is the thing
that is really valuable. It's not like the obvious stuff. Obvious stuff you can do in simulation. But
weird corner cases, only a reality can give you that. So that's -- but we're able to say, okay, we
need to train the system on this corner case situation. And look for examples so we can then try it
against those examples and improve some very esoteric corner case.
And it's also important to emphasize that this is a generalized neural net-based approach. There
is no need for high-definition maps or a cellphone connection. So the car -- the system is
designed such that even if you have no connectivity whatsoever and you're in a place that you
have never been to before and no Tesla has ever been there, the car should still be able to drive,
just like a person. That is the system that we are developing and aiming to release this year.Then in terms of capacity build out, we're making progress on the three major factories. We're
continuing to expand Shanghai significantly, which is going incredibly well. The Tesla China team is
just, I mean, incredibly good, super smart, work hard. It's like I'm always amazed by how much
progress the Tesla China team makes, it's beyond all reasonable expectations.
And then we're under construction in Berlin and Austin. So we're also making good progress
there. Yeah, good. It's overall going well. I should make a point that for Berlin and Austin, we do
expect to start delivering cars from those factories next year. But because of the exponential
nature of the spool up of a manufacturing plant, especially one with new technology, it will start
off very slow at first and then become very -- the upward will become very large.
Just in general, manufacturing follows the S curve. And I think sometimes people got to spend a
lot of time manufacturing kind of think that once you have a factory, you can just sort of turn it on
and it's at capacity. But it will typically take about 12 to 18 months to reach capacity. And that is a
very fast period of time, especially for new technology. So yes, I'd say, 12 to 24 months even. So,
generally, what I see is the manufacturing capacity is under-estimated in the beginning for quite
some time. Then it's sometimes overestimated because this is an S curve. It goes exponential to
linear to logarithmic. And it's actually an incredibly hard thing, just bringing a production plant up
to volume technology.
If you -- because you guys think of it like you've got to first order approximation, 10,000 unique
parts of processes, all of which operate on an S-curve and with a bunch of uncertainty, and you
can just slide 10,000 S-curves on an X-axis, and that's what's bringing up a large automotive plant
is like. And which one's the laggard, which one is the leader, it's very difficult to tell, and it's
constantly changing. So it's really one of the most difficult challenges I've ever seen.
So let's see. In conclusion, thank you. What we would achieve would not be possible without the
incredible hard work of tens of thousands of Tesla employees and all people at our suppliers as
well. I'd like to thank our suppliers. We continue to grow as fast as we can, while focusing on cost
control and improving quality. And ultimately, the best company will be that which makes great
products at an affordable price, and that is our goal. I think I've never felt more optimistic about
the future of Tesla than I do today. I'd also like to thank investors who have stuck with us through
thick and thin. This is -- I think there's a lot more good stuff to come.
All right. With that, we can move to questions.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you, Elon. I think our CFO, `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer, has some opening remarks as well.
`Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, sure.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Martin. Overall, our financial health continues to rapidly improve with Q3 being
another great quarter on nearly all dimensions, as Elon has mentioned. On net income, we
achieved our fifth sequential quarter of profitability, our best net income, and nearly double-digit
operating margins.
Two things that are important to note is that context for Q3 profitability. First, the regulatory
credits business was stronger than our expectations and we are tracking to more than double thissecond and third tranche of the CEO grant vested during the quarter. Additionally, we have
begun expensing one more tranche, resulting in roughly $300 million of combined period
expense. I think it's reasonable to view the quarter excluding both these items to get a true
sense of the health of the core business.
On automotive gross margin, including regulatory credits, it increased materially from 18.7% to
23.7%, with some of our programs achieving greater than 25% gross margin. Keep in mind that
inefficiencies related to factory shutdowns affected our margins in Q2. We continue to reduce our
manufacturing and operational costs. We are also seeing benefits from the ongoing upward
trend of locally built and delivered cars, which has increased from under 50% at the beginning of
last year to over 70% most recently, which is a core component of our cost reduction strategy. We
are also seeing financial benefits from improved vehicle reliability across the feet -- across the
fleet.
Services and other margin approved yet again, driven by our used vehicle business and
efficiencies in our service operations. In the energy business, we achieved record storage
deployment, aided by the positive reception of the Megapack and PowerWall products as
production and deployments grow. Additionally, our filler deployments doubled, and we're
continuing to make progress on that front.
On cash flows, our cash balance increased to $14.5 billion, which includes free cash flows of $1.4
billion, our highest yet. Our operating cash flows were $2.4 billion. Including a $600 million benefit
from working capital as we've made progress on days of receivables and inventory despite a
reduction in days of payables. Note that the majority of our operating cash flows are driven by the
strengthening of our core operations.
Capital expenses grew to $1 billion, driven by Model Y (Technical Difficulty) in Shanghai, Berlin and
Austin. As for previous investments in Model 3 Shanghai and Model Y in Fremont, we're expecting
these programs to have already fully paid for their respective investments by the end of this year.
Looking forward to 2021 and 2022, we have revised up our expectations for capital spending by
$2 billion to $2.5 billion, which we have ample liquidity and expected cash flows to fund. This is
driven by an increase in in-source scope for certain factories, including battery cell manufacturing
as well as investments to enable greater capacity expansion in the future. While we expect the
return on our investments to remain very strong, keep in mind that with additional scope and
location-specific costs, payback of these investments may be slightly longer than what we saw in
Model 3 in Shanghai and Model Y in Fremont.
Financing cash flows were $4.5 billion as we reduced use of our working capital lines, offset by a
$5 billion equity raise in September. Note that we're currently expecting over $1 billion in early
convert paydowns in Q4, primarily associated with the 2021 conversions, but also our 2022 and
2024.
Looking forward, we remain focused on strengthening the core fundamentals of the business.
We are increasing production to meet demand, reducing costs, including localization, driving
higher efficiency across the business and tightening our cash conversion cycle. We've made
tremendous progress on this front over the last year and a half. We're also aiming to achieve our
original 2020 guidance of 500,000 deliveries despite the operational interruptions earlier in the
year. While this goal remains a genuine challenge, we believe it's possible the tight execution
across the Company.
So congratulations again to the Tesla team for a great quarter and a great year.I'll hand it over to `RJ Johnson, Global Head of Commercial Energy, who joined Tesla early on the year and is leading our energy
business for a few comments.
`RJ Johnson, Global Head of Commercial Energy `
Thank you, Zach. First, I'd like to also thank and congratulate the team on a job well done. Q3 was
a strong quarter for the energy business and we're poised for continued strong growth in energy
storage and solar. Megapack is going to be a large growth segment for the business and
deployments will continue to expand rapidly as the product reaches full capacity. We have more
demand than supply through 2021 and we continue to ramp the product to match unprecedented
demand across the globe through 2023 and beyond.
Our order book is rapidly filling up through 2023 in a multiple gigawatt hour scale. Large-scale
solar plus storage is now more cost effective than traditional fossil fuel generation in many
locations across the globe. This trend will continue as we remove cost, which will further displace
existing and new fossil fuel generation. This is true for standalone storage as well. Many
customers are utilizing Autobidder to maximize returns as we optimize our hardware and
software with advanced real-time bidding strategies. They continue to outperform the market
where deployed.
For Powerwall, we see continued strong demand for residential storage as customers seek
increased reliability and backup home generation. We have a very large backlog of Powerwall
orders and we continue to invest to increase capacity to fulfill customer orders. We're just now
capturing the full power of customer sited solar plus storage as customers in some jurisdictions
are providing services back to the grid when they don't need to consume energy or have backup
power. This has massive potential to reduce system costs and make the grid more efficient
globally.
In the United States, we lowered our residential solar retrofit price to $1.49 a watt after tax
incentives, which is the lowest in the industry. We're able to do this by leveraging our online
vehicle ordering infrastructure, which substantially reduced the soft cost associated with sales and
marketing. As a result, our fixed costs remain relatively flat as our volume and efficiency increase,
leading to increased profitability in the retrofit business. We're using the same methodology
across the entire energy business, including service to capitalize on the technology backbone of
the Company.
Solar Roof is especially exciting as we've gained significant experience over the last year in the
installation process, which is a key enabler to scale the business. We've recently demonstrated
our ability to complete Solar Roof installation in just one day. Please note, it still requires one to
two days to remove the existing roof and prepare it for the Solar Roof installation. Clearly there
will be a range of installation times based on size, complexity, weather and other factors.
Overall, our reduced installation time provides a better customer experience and will enable the
business to grow exponentially as scale effects allow for increased efficiency.
In closing, we believe the energy segment is poised for strong growth as we continue to focus on
increasing scale, while reducing cost to maximize profitability. I want to thank the team again for
their hard work and I look forward to another strong quarter ahead of us.
Questions And Answers
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `Thank you very much, everyone. And let's begin with questions from say.com. The first question
from retail shareholders is, is Tesla planning to start 4680 cell production at Giga Berlin at the
same time as vehicle production? Can Tesla share more information on what products you'll use
the battery cells from the pilot line in Fremont?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Drew, do you want to take that?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Sure. Yes, we will incorporate 4680 design solutions into many applications in time across both
energy and vehicle. And we can use our pilot production facility in Fremont to support the new
factory in Berlin as it ramps.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question, which is question number two from retail
shareholders. Does Tesla's tablet cell design allow for significantly higher peak charging rates?
Does it improve the required taper curve?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. The fundamental limitation on charge rate in lithium-ion batteries is avoiding lithium plating
on the anode. And while the tablet's architecture helps avoid overheating because it's a more
power dense architecture at high continuous charge rates, it doesn't change the anode plating
story. Electro design and anode material choice more directly determines the maximum charge
rate and how to avoid that lithium plating problem.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you very much. The third question from retail is, would FSD be able to be transferred
to our next vehicle or pay a transfer fee? It would add a broad -- it would add to a brand loyalty. In
the same way, gaming companies and cellphone companies keep you in their ecosystem by
letting new transfer purchases to upgraded hardware.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah I think, we'll give it to both.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. The fourth question is, what are the remaining constraints to be sold for solar installations
to ramp significantly? Carl?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. (inaudible) I'm on the Solar Roof Engineering and Installation. The biggest constraint right
now in Solar Roof ramp is getting enough installers on board and trained and experienced. We've
made a lot of progress on this in Q3, and we're continuing to hire. The next opportunity is
improving the material flow on the job site. We've talked about this a lot in the factory as well that
setting up the right packaging, kitting so that every installer on the roof has the parts they need
at their fingertips. Also, we've had great response from third-party roofing contractors as they'reramping up installations for Solar Roof on their customer homes, which is a big source of future
growth.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you Carl.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, here's the way to think about a product, in my opinion. You have to say, I think what do
you want the world to look like? When you look around the neighborhood in future, a decade
from now, what do you want? What products are going to make your life better? What future do
you want? And I think a future where we've got beautiful roofs with generating energy that are
tough and resilient and better in every way than a regular roof and a lab with energy. That's the
future we want. The Solar Roof is a killer product. This will become obvious next year.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the last question from retail shareholders is, you recently referred to Tesla as a
conglomerate of start-ups. Other than manufacturing electric cars, what do you suppose will be
the most valuable business units within Tesla over the next five to seven years? Could you
envision any of them ever spinning out from Tesla?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, yeah, I think about this today. Tesla has probably -- there's probably in excess of a dozen
startups effectively in Tesla. Every major product line is a start-up. Every big new plant is a start-
up. And sometimes, frankly, we have to learn a lesson a few times before since then [ph]. But
even things like service and sales are startups. Other car companies, OEMs, they don't own their
sales and service. So we have to create our service network. We have to create our sales and
delivery network. We have to do this in, I don't know, 40 countries, multiple languages. So many
people don't really even know much about it. Our internal applications team that writes the core
technology that runs the Company.
We are not dependent on enterprise software. Like for those who understand what this means,
this is a very big deal. And my hat is well to the great work of the internal applications team. They
are like the nervous system, the operating system of the Company, the Tesla operating system,
extremely fundamental. Obviously, insurance is substantial. So insurance could very well be 30%,
40% of the value of the car business, frankly. And as we've talked about before, with a much
better feedback group, instead of being statistical, it can be specific. And obviously, somebody
does not have to choose our insurance. But I think a lot of people will. It's going to cost less and
be better. So why would you?
And the whole autonomy thing is a start-up. The computer chip was -- designing our computer
chips was a start-up. Obviously cells are a start up. Designing and making our own power
electronics for the drive unit, design, manufacturing our own motors, chargers, the Supercharger
network is a start up. I think that people just don't really understand about Tesla is that it's a
whole chain of startups. And they like, well, you didn't do that before. Yeah, but we're doing it
now. I mean, I think so far, we have not -- we've maybe been a bit slow with some of the start-
ups, but I don't think we've had any of them fail. So, so far so good. No plans to spin anything out.
That just sounds like added complexity.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `Thank you very much. Let's go to institutional investor questions. The question number one is as a
bridge to the ride-hailing network, could you leverage the insurance product to give customers
the ability to rent out their vehicles via the app, thereby enabling the car to make money for
them? So, basically proprietary version of Turo.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we're focused on enabling the robotaxi system. So you can just basically -- like that's really
quite a small subset of the overall robotaxi or robocar thing where you can have the car be
autonomous for you. You've can have the car be -- you have to share with friends and family. You
can add or remove it from the network. You can have it be entirely in the network. I mean, if
you're an Uber or Lyft driver, you could be managing a fleet of 10 cars. This sort of seems like a
shepherd tending the flock type of thing. It's like you just get more -- way more leverage. So, I
think that's sort of -- we could do that. It wouldn't be very difficult, but we're going to just be
focused on just having an autonomous network. That has sort of elements of Uber, Lyft and
Airbnb, yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the second question from institutionals is, residential energy use accounts for
roughly the same magnitude of carbon emissions as road transport. Today's boilers and aircom
units are profoundly unsexy. Could you elaborate on handstrip HVAC advances with the Y [ph]
that could also find use in a domestic system?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, go ahead Drew.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
I was just going to say, I mean, I think one of the things we focused on with the Model Y and now
Model 3 pump system was learning how to build a tightly integrated system, capable of moving
heat to and from anywhere really, powertrain battery, cabin, the environment, outside, ambient
temperatures, all the way down to like negative 20 C, so 30 C. And that's definitely applicable to
the home needs of heating and cooling the home and the water in your house. So certainly
applicable. Elon?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. I think like the heat -- for a heat pump in the car, being able to use the batteries,
both a thermal and an electric energy reservoir is very significant. Same thing could be applied to
a home with the water heater. So -- and the back of pack itself, of course. So I think there's
potential for an integrated home system that Canada's power generation storage, heating,
cooling, air filtration, water purification in a really tight package. We don't actually have like a
prototype or anything, but I think conceptually, that is something that would be probably good to
have.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `Thank you. The third question from institutionals is, is meeting your long-term volume targets
requires price reductions that preclude you from achieving your low double-digit stated margin
targets for the autos business, will you still reduce prices accordingly?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we want to make our cars more affordable, and it's real important to separate out
affordability from value for money. If the car is too expensive or any given product is too
expensive, then people don't have enough money in the bank account, they simply can't buy it no
matter what the value proposition is. So it is important to lower the prices in order to such that
people can literally just have enough money to buy it.
I do not think we lack for a desire for our product, but we do lack for affordability. And so we have
to improve the affordability of our products so they are not out of reach of people. We want to
bring them more in reach over time, but also improve our cost of production. Obviously, we get,
hopefully, a little bit better every year. Sometimes a lot better. And in terms of margins, all of
these margins are going to look pretty comically small when you factor in autonomy.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah, two things I'll add to that. Without a doubt, I mean, we're moving forward to push as much
volume as we reasonably can. So, Elon talked to earlier kind of how the S-curve and the time line
of incremental factories looks like. And so we're moving full speed ahead with as much volume as
we can reasonably move forward with.
The second comment I'd make is, if you just look at the journey of the Company over the last
year and a half, we have grown volumes and grown gross margins despite a number of price
reductions over that period of time, and we have cut OpEx fairly stable during that period of time
as well. And so the key is what Elon mentioned here. I mean, we have to improve the affordability
of the vehicle. We have to also continue to make progress improving the cost structure of not
only COGS, but of OpEx, which we've demonstrated over the last year and a half, I think, quite
successfully, and improve the value of the vehicles at the same time. So in addition to reducing
the cost of the car, we're making the cars better. And that's the formula to sell the volume. That's
what we're focused on.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The fourth question from institutionals is, at what point do you expect to
have enough internal or external battery capacity to start ramping up stationary storage
deployments again?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. We're ramping up stationary storage a lot. So I mean, it's approximately doubling as we
expect, it's approximately double next year. So, that's pretty good. And hopefully, we can
accelerate that in years to come.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
And approximately doubling it this year, too. So the growth --
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, yeah, I mean, if you just keep doubling things, pretty soon you hit the Mars [ph] of the
universe, and we'll need to start turning Jupiter into cells.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
And the last question from institutionals is, manufacturing is hard. Delays happen. What
contingencies do you have in place to ensure that bottlenecks that you might encounter, while
renting internal cell production will not preclude you from your ability to hit your Model Y
production volume targets in Berlin and Texas?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So I think it's -- we're trying to de-risk to 2021 so that there's almost no dependency on our
internal cell production. It's very, very small. The internal cell production will help us ramp in '22,
but we're not dependent on it for '21.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
And to derisk the manufacturing system itself, that was one of the reasons why we located our
pilot production facility here in Fremont, so we can rapidly iterate on manufacturing scale-up
challenges, provide rapid feedback to the design of both the product and the equipment.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Our pilot line is pretty big as pilot [ph] lines go. It's -- it will be in the top 10 cell factories on
Earth, I believe.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. That's true.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I'll subscale 1. So --
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And now we can go to questions from analysts offline. Sherry?
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody. Just wanted to ask about the targets from your Battery Day. Looks like you could
be approaching something like 20 million vehicles by 2030, if you hit those goals. Could you
maybe share with us a little bit more of a midterm target? Like where would you be by 2025, and
maybe give us a little bit more insight into the investment required to get there, just to put that
extra $2 billion to $2.5 billion per year into context?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, I mean I think the tricky thing with trying to predict things midway through an exponential is
that if things are doubling every year or even just growing 50%, then if you shift one -- plus/minus
one year, it has a huge effect on the number. So -- and it sounds like, wow, you either massively
exceeded or massively undershot, but it's actually what's going on is a giant S-curve. So a whole
bunch of pretty big S curves, that integrate into a gigantic S-curve. So that's why it's difficult to
predict the middle.
I'm not saying for sure we'll hit 20 million vehicles. But it does seem like a good goal to have
because that would mean that we're replacing 1% of the global fleet per year. And it's difficult to
say that we're really changing the world, if we're not switching out 1% of the global fossil fuel
vehicles. I mean, it's -- I'm not sure that we can make that argument unless we change at least 1%
of the vehicles per year. So that's where the 20 million vehicle per year comes from. It's like 1% of
2 billion vehicles, which is the global fleet currently. The global fleet is growing. So, probably will
grow a bit bigger in the future. It's hard to say. It's like map an S-curve to a $20 million -- 20 million
vehicle target in 2030 and we will slide it around and see what that number looks like. That will
give you about as much insight as we have.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. And just secondly, if solid-state lithium metal were to become viable, could you just maybe
just pass along your perspective on that? And would you be able to repurpose most of what
you're putting into place for changes in technology?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I mean, answering the first part, the cell production system is fairly agnostic on anode,
cathode, electrolyte sub-array [ph] that kind of thing. It's -- we could change, and we will change,
and upgrade the -- all aspects of the cell. So -- and we could, for example, make ion phosphate
or nickel manganese or something like that. It's quite adaptable. So, I wouldn't say just too much
more about. But the lithium, like a pure lithium anode is -- maybe not as great as it may sound.
Yeah, volumetrically, you're not gaining all that much because if you got nothing on the -- say on
the anode side, you got -- and just play out lithium, it's got to go somewhere, so you could have
room for it.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yes, lithium, less volumetrically dense in the pure metal form than it is intercalated into silicon. So,
it's kind of hard to understand, but that's the truth. And then as we showed in our presentation,
the total anode cost that we're talking about is only $1 or $2 per kilowatt hour. So the value of
removing the anode material is super high either. So yeah, I fully agree, Elon.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, exactly. But if it were to announce that a pure lithium anode is the right move, that would
simply -- that would be no problem.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Right agreed.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
All right, thank you.A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you, Next question please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer with Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Thanks so much guys. You're talking about in-sourcing a number of processes. Can you talk a little
bit about which processes you're moving in-house and the equipment that you're planning to
make yourself versus some equipment that you buy from other folks?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, are you talking about the -- for cell manufacturing or selling or --
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
(Multiple Speakers) as well as on the molds that you talked about, in terms of the CapEx budget
that you mentioned earlier, talking about the -- a number of processes coming in-house and
which equipment pieces you're planning to make yourself versus buying?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Well, I mean, Tesla is absurdly vertically integrated compared to other auto companies or
basically with any company. We have a massive amount of internal manufacturing technology that
we build ourselves. We literally make the machine. In fact, we design, it's like, okay, what are the
things we want to make, design a machine that will make that thing, then we make the machine.
This is what -- this makes it quite difficult to copy Tesla, which -- we're not actually all that
opposed to people copying us, but it's quite difficult because you can't do catalog engineering.
You can't just all pick up the supplier catalog and get one of those machine, one of that machine,
then go out now in Tesla.
You have to -- there is no catalog. So we made the machine, that made the machine, that made
the machine. It gets -- no, we don't want to get carried away here. But -- and quite frankly, we
would like to outsource less. That would be great. Because then if we get outsourced, if we take
something we're doing and outsource it, then we could take those people and we're going to
have them do something else. But yeah, it's like we're just making a crazy amount of machinery
internally. This is -- Tesla is not well understood. If you just walk around the factory, just get a
sense for it. And yeah, I don't know if this is like a smart move, but I just know like, hey, if we're
trying to make progress and nobody's got the machines that we need, we've got to make it. So
we do.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Okay. And then the second question is really around the balance sheet has really changed. You
guys have run (inaudible) and you've got a lot more cushion at this point. And obviously, there's
opportunities around insurance to drive out some of the cost of ownership as well as financials.
How are you guys thinking about that as you move into trying to accelerate demand a little bit
and your ability to leverage your access to capital and enable some of those other products? Is
that changing from where you've been in the past?A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean something like insurance is a good example of a product that's basically made by our
internal applications team. So we made the insurance product and connected to the car, look at
the data, calculate the risk. This is all internally -- there's basically internal software application. It's
pretty low capital, but has very high return. I don't know. We're trying to spend money at the
fastest rate that we can possibly spend it and not waste it. That's our current plan. And so it's
quite hard to spend money without wasting it, or just -- we're like really just trying to not waste
too much of it, frankly. We will certainly waste some of it, but trying to waste -- not to waste too
much of it, this is a very difficult. But otherwise, we just try to spend money as quickly as possible
in a way that is sensible and yields more value than it costs.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, Elon, a question on LiDAR. If LiDAR were totally free, would you want to use it in your cars
near term? Would that tech significantly help Tesla on the training of your neural network for FSD?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean totally free? Probably not. I think even if its free, we wouldn't put it on.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Let's follow-up then. Amazon appears to be investing and building an autonomous or
electric transport network of some ilk through some organic investments, but also Zuk, Aurora,
Rivian, et cetera. What advice would you give Jeff Bezos in his endeavor?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I don't know how much he cares about this, but I guess, he sure is investing a lot of money
in. I mean, I think you obviously need to vote for -- if you have to care a lot about autonomy, you
need to focus on vision because the entire road system is based on pass optical. So you have to
solve pass optical for to have a self-driving system that is generally a solution. And once you solve
pass optical, you've solved self-driving. So why bother with anything else?
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Elon.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you, let's go to the next question please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research with New Street Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Hey, thanks for that's for taking my question. A very simple one. You haven't talked that much
about like the Cybertruck today. And I was wondering how like the ramp of that product is lookinglike? When we should see the product hitting the road? And how fast do you expect to ramp
volumes? Then I have a quick follow up.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I was in the studio actually on last Friday with Franz and the team just going over just some
improvements to the Cybertruck. Generally, with -- we really aim to make the car that is delivered
better than the car that is unveiled. Because it always drive me crazy, car companies would unveil
these awesome looking cars, like, great, you can't wait until they make that. And then what they
actual make is like much worse that it's just -- it's like what is the point? So man, we always want
to make the car that we deliver be better than the car we unveil. And that's the goal with the
Cybertruck. So there's like a lot small improvements compared to what was unveiled.
I think it's going to be better than what we showed. And yeah, it's cool. It's very made in Austin.
So dependent on completing that factory. And there are obviously new technologies with the
high hardness kind of armored exoskeleton. This is never been done before, so there'll probably
be some challenges along the way. And obviously, something that has extremely high hardness
and difficult to scratch or dent is also difficult to form. So it's -- there's manufacturing challenges
there. That's why it's so cleaner. Although it also looks good, I think, from a cleaner standpoint.
Yes. If all goes well, we'll be able to do some Cybertruck deliveries towards the end of -- towards
the end of next year, yeah. So it's difficult to predict. I would say there's probably a lot of
deliveries in '22 and some deliveries towards the end of next year, if things go well.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Okay. And now I'm trying to get a sense of how next year is going to look like. So if I look at your
production capacity at the end of this year, it's going to be almost 850,000 units on an
annualized basis. And you're going to increase capacity in Shanghai, open Berlin. You say today
you would open Austin as well. So you're probably going to end the year above 1 million units.
And so am I right thinking next year we should expect to deliver like somewhere like between
840,000 and 1 million cars during the year?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yes. We'll...
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead (inaudible).
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, we'll provide guidance on 2021 after next earnings call.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, it's in that vicinity. Yeah. (inaudible).
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Thank you.
OperatorQ - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hi, good evening. Thank you. Just wanted to start with a question on the quarter. Zach, maybe
you could give us a sense of where directionally Model Y and China's Model 3 gross margin was
in the quarter relative to Fremont Model 3? And then just a little more color on the gross margin
in the quarter. Was this just purely a function of higher volume? Or was there also FSD revenues?
Just puts and takes on the gross margin in the quarter.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. On your question about FSD, there was a small amount of deferred revenue release. It's
not particularly material in the $10 million range for the quarter. With respect to product margins,
what we're seeing across the board is just continued reduction in cost, really across every
product. Shanghai continues to make good progress there. Model Y cost is also coming down
quite quickly as we ramp that. But we've guided in the past that Model Y costs should be roughly
equivalent to the Model 3 built in Fremont costs.
It's not quite there, and it's also a bit of a moving target as Model 3 Fremont cost comes down,
Model Y also has to come down with that. But we're generally seeing strength in Shanghai
margin, strength in Model Y margins. And not too far off of this, we're seeing strength in Model 3
Fremont and S and X margins. So overall, for the quarter, I think it was quite a good story for the
products.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great. Great. Thanks. And then just as a follow-up, I wanted to ask about your strategy in Europe.
And I think your strategy generally has been, you cut costs and that allows you to cut price and
you can generate the extra volume. And I think that's what we're seeing in China and the use of
LFP. That's a good example. So, once you ramp in Berlin, what's the reasonable expectation of
what pricing might look like in Europe? And how flexible are you going to be on pricing to
generate incremental reg credit? So, margins out of the gate that are a little low, but are then
used for the reg credits that help to offset that.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, but what I think I would say generally to the question is, I mean, we've been in a position for
some time now where we are prioritizing where in the world we send our production. And there's
different factors to that depending upon when different product changes are made, what the
logistics routing look like, different things going on in different markets. But we are in a position
where we need to prioritize. I mean, what we're trying to do as fast as we possibly can is get
production up higher so that we're not in a position of needing to prioritize again. There are --
yes, I think that gets at the sentiment of your question.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. Let's go to the next question please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Gene Munster, Analyst, Loup Ventures with Loup Ventures. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gene Munster, Analyst, Loup Ventures `Good evening. A question on the semi. Elon, if you could just walk us through the development of
Megachargers, (inaudible) and maybe just how you think about autonomy for Tesla Semi? And
what is -- how you envision it impacting the broader trucking industry beyond just EV?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, actually, Drew, do you want to answer that?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yes, we continue the development of the Semi. And in particular, Megachargers, we realized that
350-kilowatt or so that we might be looking for cars is not going to be enough for Semi so we're
looking for something much more powerful than that, that can achieve essentially charging at first
the Semi as during a break, during your driving time so that you can drive until the next break,
yeah. So there is no usable or efficient time wasted for charging the Semi. That's the goal. We're
working with other parties to make sure that there is a standard infrastructure that will be able to
be deployed for all customers. Yeah, it's probably all I can say at this point, yeah. We're not
working on --
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, go ahead.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
We're not working in isolation. Yeah, we're trying to -- we have to invent it because it doesn't
exist. But we're trying to invent something that could be helpful for everybody.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Just a note on the sort of Semi. The Semi does consume a lot of cells. So it's, call it 4 to 6
times more than a passenger vehicle, vehicle 5, 5-ish times. So, if we are cell-constrained, it is -- it
kind of -- it's difficult to ramp up the semi because there's no cells. So, we need to solve the cell
constraint before ramping Semi to significant volume. That's the only real constraint on Semi
progress. And just we found over and over again, we just kept running into cell production
limitations. And then we're just taking things out of one pocket and putting them in another. So,
we just need more cells so that we can do more stationary storage, more vehicles, more vehicle
lines (inaudible) but we need more cells.
Q - `Gene Munster, Analyst, Loup Ventures `
So It makes sense. A question just, as you think about -- you've talked about robotaxi and how
you think that's going to impact kind of humans moving around. How do you think about Semi
impacting freight longer term? I mean, is this something that is nice to have and a complement to
all of your tech in new markets? Or do you think that this could be a material business?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's very material for sure. Really long term, all transport will go autonomous. Yeah, horses
are already autonomous. But all transport will go autonomous, yeah. So (inaudible) way. So it will
be pretty significant.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `The technology that we're putting in Semi is identical to what we're putting in the other vehicles?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. It's just bigger and more motors.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you, let's go to the next question.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Ben Kallo, Analyst, Baird with Baird. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben Kallo, Analyst, Baird `
Hey, thanks for taking my question. Elon, what do you think the biggest structural issue is with the,
let's call it, old school OEMs or one or two of the structural issues for them by getting their act
together and catching up with you? And then you mentioned what you -- we want the world to
look like ahead of us. What do you envision that? Is it like just Tesla or Tesla and Rivian or what?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I do think there will be other car companies. I don't think we're going to be the only one. So I
mean, the things that -- like what other car companies do even in the auto segment is quite a
small subset of what Tesla is. So at Tesla, we design and build. We're very vertically integrated.
So, we're designing and building so much more of the car than other OEMs who will largely go to
the traditional supply base and like I call it, catalog engineering.
So it's not very adventurous and it basically ends up like all the products end up looking the same
because they're going to the same suppliers. So I mean, to the degree that you inherit legacy
components, you inherit the legacy limitations and cost structure. And so you kind of need to
make new ingredients, new parts, and then you need -- then there's no machine to make those
parts. So, you have to make the machine that makes the part. So Tesla is like -- we're probably --
we might be, in order of magnitude, more vertically integrated than other car companies. And
which we're not now, we certainly will be.
And then we also we also have to create our sales and service and distribution system in, I don't
know, something on the order of 40 countries, somewhere it will be over 100 countries. Whereas
the other car companies do not own their sales and service and distribution. So they kind of
assemble parts from a supply base and then hand them to a dealer base. So it's just like -- it's not
just -- it's like comparing dozens of car companies like just comparing just really one facet or
dimension of Tesla, we're like maybe 10% in common with other car companies.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the last question, please.
Operator
And our final question today will come from `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `Yes, thank you for taking my questions. I've got two. The first one for me is, I tried to understand
your business model for stationary storage. Have your thoughts on it. I mean there are two broad
directions. One is selling hardware, which is a bit of a cost-plus business. And I'm just wondering if
there's an opportunity where Tesla could actually share into the savings that utilities, in particular,
could be able to achieve in like grid stabilization. The information I was able to get on your
business in Australia a few years ago suggest that given the savings that are achieved, your
hardware could have been sold at a higher price. I'm just wondering if you have -- share views on
where the business already is going?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think you're probably right about that. I mean, RJ and Zach, what do you guys think?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, we're already seeing this in Australia, where we're seeing behind-the-meter
aggregation that is providing grid services back to the grid, which effectively reduces the price to
the customer and reduces the prices for the grid operator. So you're seeing this trend happening
across the globe. And it's going to be at the residential level as well as the wholesale level. So
Megapack on one end and then PowerWall on the other side. Those two working together in
tandem and the software layer on top of it, Autobidder being that, that really is going to help
make the grid more efficient using the hardware platform and software together.
A - `RJ Johnson, Global Head of Commercial Energy `
And just a point of clarification, like that the large power plant in -- largest battery power plant in
Australia, like we continue to operate that power plant and generate revenue in the market. So
whether we could have sold it from or less, like we're continuing to make money off of that
power plant.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay, thank you. And the follow-up question I had was, during the Battery Day, you talked about
this sales vehicle integration approach. It's very interesting. And when I look at that -- when I think
about it, it looks like this means that the skateboard designed the Tesla pioneered and many of
your followers are using is going to become obsolete? Or am I not thinking about it the right way?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
It will be obsolete long term, yeah.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Are you talking -- yes.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean several years from now. Now it's not like existing cars still having value. It's just that, that if
you have -- if you have -- if you have a structural pack, where the pack is contributing structural
value to the car because of like the sort of like the composite honeycomb effect of shared
transfer between upper and lower fleet, then anything that doesn't do that is going to have to
duplicate hardware. It's going to weigh more. It's going to cost more. And then the same goes
for the front and rear castings.To be frank, we're trying to make the car like you'd make a toy. If you had a toy model car, I would
-- and then it's got to be real cheap and look great, how do you make that? You'll cast it. And
that's how it's done. It would be absurd to make it up of tiny little pieces of stamp metal joined in
complex ways. So it's sort of a natural thing to do. And then the same goes for using the energy
storage, the battery as a structure, which is done for aircraft wings and for rockets. The early
rockets and aircraft, they had a separate error shelf from propellant tanks or fuel tanks, and then
they realized that doesn't make sense. And you've got to integrate. You've got to have your fuel
tank in wing shape and you got to have your propelling tanks in the shape of the body of the
rocket, for example. You don't want to put a box on a box, basically.
So -- which over many years made it like basically uncompetitive to have an aircraft that has
separate fuel tanks from the wing. The wings need to be (inaudible). I wouldn't think of this as like
it's like an overnight transition. It's several years. But like I said, over time, it just would be
competitive to have a different architecture, in my opinion.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. Unfortunately, this is all the time we have for the Q&A today. I appreciate all
your great questions, and we'll speak to you again in about three months. Thank you. Goodbye.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.