Q3 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to our telephone
conference for the third quarter results. With us today, are `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Chairman of the Board of
Management and `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
For today's telephone conference, we slightly changed the usual procedure. First, `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer
will take you through our financial results. `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG will then give you a general business
update for the BMW Group. Afterwards, we will have time for our Q&A session.
And now we start with Nicolas. Please go ahead.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Max. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I hope you are all staying safe and healthy.
Over the past several months, the BMW Group has again proven its ability to act flexibly in high
volatile market environment and to adapt quickly to new circumstances.
After experiencing the full force of the Coronavirus pandemic initially in the second quarter, we
delivered a strong performance in the third quarter, we were able to increase sales and group
earnings. These earnings quality is also reflected in our free cash flow. Currently however, the
situation is worsening again, particularly in Europe and again requires a great degree of flexibility.
The measures we introduced in the first half of the year to lower costs together with our
investment are now paying off. This shows that we are safely steering the company and are
making the right decisions, enabling us to limit the effects of the pandemic.
Our strict cost discipline is having a positive impact on earnings supported by additional
measures such as focused management of our working capital. One of the main drivers for this
strong performance in the third quarter was a recovery in customer demand in many countries,
including China and Korea, but also in major European markets like Germany, the Benelux
countries and Italy.Electric Mobility has proven to be a substantial growth driver. Our sales of electrified vehicles
increased significantly from the previous year, both in the third quarter and in the year-to-date.
Performance was also bolstered by pent-up demand in many markets.
Ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned, the business environment has been made extremely
volatile as underlined by sales development in the past two quarters. The BMW Group delivered
675,000 vehicles to customers in the third quarter, the highest quarterly sales in the Company's
history. But just before that in the second quarter, we posted our largest ever decrease in sales.
Now, the situation in Europe is worsening again. We have never recorded swings like this within
such a short space of time. Setting the right course has therefore been especially important in
recent months. The market development and performance measures I just referred to, are
having a positive impact across the company and in our individual segments.
Let me go into detail, beginning with the financial figures for the Group. Group revenue for the
third quarter totaled around EUR26.3 billion. Due to the suspension of sales and Coronavirus
restrictions; however, revenues for the first nine months were moderately lower year-on-year at
EUR69.5 billion[ph].
Group earnings before tax for the third quarter reached almost EUR2.5 billion, up 9.6% on the
previous year. The figure for the first nine months was just under EUR3 billion, and therefore
significantly under the previous figure. The Group reported an EBT margin of 9.4% for the third
quarter, and 4.3% for the first nine months. I would like to point out that we achieved this in an
extremely volatile and challenging environment.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group remained well on course as the automotive industry
undergoes a transformation. We are investing in the future and continuing to forge ahead,
particularly with electrification and digitization. A good example of this is the iNEXT, which will
celebrate its world premiere in the next few days.
Research and development activities accounted for around EUR4.4 billion in the first nine months
with an R&D ratio of 6.3% as expected. A word about our capital expenditure, which was around
EUR2.4 billion. In the year-to-date, we have systematically prioritized and focused our efforts
without deviating from our road map for the future mobility and innovation. We were able to
reduce capital expenditures significantly from the EUR3.3 billion reported in the same period of
2019. This also had a positive effect on our free cash flow.
The third quarter financial results stood at EUR514 million. The key driver for this was BMW
Brilliance Automotive results of EUR430 million. Thanks to effective pricing and high volumes, this
figure was significantly higher than the previous year.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the individual segments. I would like to start with the
automotive segment. The segment's EBIT margin for the third quarter was 6.7%. Its operating
result was EUR1.5 billion for the quarter and EUR152 million for the first nine months. This means
that despite losses in the first half of 2020, earnings went back in the positive range, although still
lower year-on-year. This stems from healthy third quarter sales, a strong model mix and better
pricing from our young and attractive model line.
Sales of our electrified vehicles are providing crucial contributions for complying with the
European Union CO2 limits. In the first nine months of 2020, we sold over 116,000 electrified
BMW and MINI models. This is 20% more than in the same period of last year. Strict management
of our fixed costs boosted earnings quality, despite expenses incurred for provisions in the mid
to high three-digit million range for restructuring measures including for personal costs.I would like to give a special mention to our Performance Program, which is making valuable
contributions to BMW Group across the company. I'd like to highlight three initiatives briefly. First is
more effective pricing due to optimized sales management. Second is on the product side,
specifically in reducing manufacturing costs and product complexity. And thirdly, we are also
optimizing new initiatives such as future work structures.
These will enhance the performance capabilities of the entire company. The decisions made so
far are already having an impact as seen in our quarterly result. We are therefore on course to
meet our EBIT margin guidance of between 0 and 3% in the automotive segment as planned.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at free cash flow in the automotive segment, which
totaled almost EUR3.1 billion in the third quarter and benefitted from the positive effect of pre tax
earnings. It was also bolstered by focused working capital management as well as strict cost and
investment. At the end of September, free cash flow stood at EUR552 million. Group liquidity at
the end of September totaled EUR21.8 billion. By the end of the year, Group liquidity will be back
towards its pre-crisis level at about EUR17 billion. We have the liquidity reserves we need to
remain flexible and able to take action at all times if the situation should deteriorate.
Let's turn now to the financial services segment. We also saw a recovery in new financing and
leasing business with retail customers. Between July and September 2020, we reported a solid
upward trend of 6.8% with a total of 538,000 new contracts. This is primarily due to demand in
Europe and China. We also saw definite signs of recovery in new financing business for used car
in key sales market in the third quarter.
The segment third quantum pre-tax earnings trended significantly lower year-on-year at EUR458
million. As in the first six months, the main reason for this was higher risk provisioning compared
with the previous year in the low three-digit million Euro range. This was necessary after adjusting
expectations for credit risk, specifically and to a lesser extent with[ph] value risks.
The financial services segment makes extensive provisions for its main business risks on an
ongoing basis, as is customary in this sector. Based on current assessment, we are appropriately
hedged against residual value and credit risks.
Let's move on to the Motorcycle segment. Here, we saw clear signs of recovery in many
important markets in the third quarter. The segment achieved an EBIT of EUR45 million in the
third quarter, an increase of over 28% compared with a previous year. The total of more than
52,000 motorcycles were delivered to customers in the third quarter and over 129,000
September 1. EBIT margin for the first nine months was 6.4%.
Ladies and Gentlemen, let's take a look at our guidance for the year. As of today, we are on track
to meet our targets for the year and can confirm our guidance for 2020. However, the volatility of
the environment means our forecast is clouded by considerable uncertainty. Our outlook does
not factor in the possible impact of rising infection numbers and the measures to contain them.
The situation is currently deteriorating and if this continues over the coming months, it can have a
significant impact on business development. Pending political decisions like unresolved Brexit
issues are also contributing to this uncertainties.
Although, car markets recovered faster than predicted in the third quarter, we still expect to see
a significant decrease in sales of just over 10% in the premium segment for the full year. We are
therefore still assuming that the BMW Group's global sales will be significantly lower in 2020 than
last year. We cannot expect the pent-up demand seen in the third quarter to continue throughout
the rest of the year.In the Automotive segment, we still expect the EBIT margin to be within the range of 0% and 3%.
Deliveries in the Motorcycle segment are forecast[ph] to decrease moderately during the
forecast period. Based on our assessment, EBIT margin should be between 3% and 5%.
On the financial services side, we anticipate a moderate decrease in return on equity mainly due
to an increased risk provisioning and the decline in new business. Group earnings before tax will
remain well below last year's figure. As planned, our workforce size will be slightly lower in 2020
than last year.
Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to focus our financial management on high profitability and
consistent cost management, while at the same time creating leeway to fund necessary future
projects. We are benefiting today, from our strategic focus on the high end luxury segment.
For example, thanks to our attractive 8 Series models and the BMW X7, we have been able to
grow sales of highly profitable models by more than 70% since 2018. Over the coming months,
our main focus will be on safeguarding earnings and continuing to improve our cash flow.
We are now striving to achieve a free cash flow of at least EUR1.5 billion for the full year. Any cash
outflow in connection with the antitrust allegations by the European Commission as well as a
significant intensification of the impacts of the Corona pandemic is not included in this
assessment.
Capitalizing on all business opportunities and absolute cost discipline will remain a clear focus for
all areas of the Company. We will continue to respond quickly and effectively if needed, to what
remains an extremely volatile business environment.
Our production, sales and purchasing networks have handled these challenges exceptionally well
so far. Aligning our production closely with demand has proven successful, and we will continue to
do so moving forward.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the BMW Group we think long-term. High profitability is a basis to
achieve our strategic objective such as electrification and digitization. The same applies in these
challenging and volatile times. We are making the right decisions and setting the right cost today
to secure the long-term success and profitability of the company into the future. Thank you.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Nicola. And now, our Chairman, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG. Oliver, please go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen also from my side. As you know, 2020 has been
dominated by the highly volatile Coronavirus pandemic worldwide, which is now worsening again
and its impact on the economy and our lives.
At the BMW Group we respond to unexpected challenges like this with flexibility and sound
judgment. The long-term perspective is and will always remain decisive for us. We demonstrated
all of this in the first three quarters.
Firstly, we are determined to target and exploit potential for growth and steer the company
calmly and consistently through the Coronavirus pandemic. In the third quarter, we demonstrated
our performance capacity and kept the company on track for success in a difficult environment
posting the highest quarterly sales in our history. We can therefore confirm our guidance for the
financial year 2020 just like `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer mentioned. We issued this guidance early in thepandemic and has only adjusted it once since. This means despite all the uncertainties, we
assessed the situation correctly.
And secondly, we are aligning the BMW Group for sustainable mobility through our strategic
decisions. This applies to products, technologies and also to our organization. It is precisely at
these so-called tipping points that BMW has often set the course for new beginnings in the past.
We continue to do things the BMW way in terms of upheaval and always remain an attractive and
reliable partner for our investors. With our products and technologies, we're ideally positioned for
the years ahead. And we want to be in a similar position from the middle of the decade on, when
the conditions on markets will have further developed.
This is why we are already working on solutions for after 2025 and 2030. Because in our industry,
timing is crucial to leveraging opportunities as they arise and being able to make targeted
investments in the future. Therefore, today I would like to focus on two timeframe related topics.
First, our perspective up to 2025; and second, our perspective for the second half of the decade.
Let's start with the first topic. We have a fresh, attractive and diverse model lineup in all
segments, that is winning over customers. That is how we were able to absorb the regional
lockdowns and even improve at the same time on the previous year in some cases.
For example, in the third quarter, we delivered 8.6% more cars and almost 21% more BMW
Motorcycles to customers than in the same period of last year. In the year to the end of
September, our automotive sales decreased by only 12.5%. And at the same time, we even
increased our global market share during the pandemic to 3.2%. A look at the market in the first
nine months shows how much the situation varies.
In China, the recovery that began in the second quarter continued. By the end of September our
sales had risen 6.4% to reach a new all-time high. In Europe on the other hand, deliveries were
down almost 20%. And in the United States sales decreased by about a quarter. Our models in
the luxury class and especially our electrified vehicles emerged as winners from these times of
pandemic.
You could say circumstances provided a boost aided by government initiative -- initiated
measures in a number of countries. We delivered more than 116,000 electric vehicles and plug-in
hybrids to customers in the first nine months, a new all-time high and a significant year-on-year
increase of 20%. And this trend became even clearer during the month of October. We are
already firmly established as one of the absolute leading manufacturers of electrified vehicles
worldwide. And we already laid the foundation for this back in 2013 with a fully electric BMW i3.
Our project I was the beginning of Phase I of our transformation to sustainable mobility and has
been a great success story. Since then we have sold the i3 more than 200,000 times. And there
is still no other vehicle on the market that has a lot -- that has a comparable 360-degree
approach and no vehicle with a longer life cycle.
Overall, we have delivered well over 600,000 electrified vehicles to customers worldwide to-
date.
And now, as demand for electric model starts to pick up, we are starting Phase II of our
transformation with highly innovative vehicles. The Mini Cooper SE has delighted around 13,000
customer since March, and our current order book is just as for[ph]. The BMW i3 will be arriving in
showrooms in the next few days. Employees at the BBA plant in Shenyang, celebrate the start ofproduction in late September. The iX3 brings e-mobility to the extremely popular X family and
paved the way for the 5th generation BMW's E-Drive Technology.
In 2021, the BMW i4 will come out of Plant Munich with an electric range of up to 600 kilometers.
Followed in 2021 as well by the iNEXT, the board of management took the series version for test
drive just last week. I'm sure this car will surprise and delight a lot of people. The driving feeling is
unique for an e-drive, it sets a totally new benchmark for digitalization and connectivity, its
operating system is a revolutionary, the interior is minimalist and absolutely user-focused and the
exterior is progressive. You will hear more about this when our next next-gen kicks off next-week.
Other fully electric BMW models will include the high volume 5 Series and the X1 as well as the 7
Series. All of these will be available with four different drive technologies: Petrol; diesel; plug-in
hybrid and fully electric. We call this as you know, power of choice. Customers choose the
drivetrain that best suits their needs. That is why we need and use flexible architectures for
several drive technologies. This enables us to meet demand for different drivetrains efficiently
across all model ranges and segments. This is not only an exceptional capability, but also a strong
competitive advantage for us.
Our Electric Offensive encompasses all model ranges with much more to come. By 2023, we will
offer 25 models within an electrified drivetrain. Our plug-in hybrids are also doing very well. This is
a great opportunity to introduce people to electric drivetrains. We want our customers to use E-
mobility for themselves, because they recognize and appreciate the benefits. Later this month,
we will be expanding our plug-in hybrid options for the 5 Series from 2 models to 5. That is more
(inaudible) variance than in any other model range.
With the right timing and right technologies and despite the Corona virus pandemic, we will meet
the European CO2 targets for both this year and next year. And this year alone, our fleet
emissions will be around 20% lower than in 2019. We are preparing for future CO2 targets just as
systematically and just as persistently.
The key to success for our Electro Offensive clearly lies in our plans. We are expanding our
production network for e-mobility and the necessary components. Here, we are specifically
strengthening Germany as a manufacturing location.
Let me give you three examples. By 2022 each of our four automotive plans in Germany will be
capable of manufacturing fully electric vehicles. And secondly, also from 2022 on (inaudible) we'll
be able to build e-drives for up to 500,000 electrified vehicles a year. Leipzig and Regensburg
will also produce battery modules and high voltage batteries respectively.
And thirdly, our new pilot plan for new Serious 10 battery cell production will also begin operations
in 2022. The BMW Group has more comprehensive battery cell expertise than any other car
manufacturing in the world.
Our aim is to have the most efficient and at the same time, most sustainable battery cell industry
-- cell in the industry. Together with Northvolt and Umicore, we are creating a closed material loop
for battery cells.
We're combining the reorganization of our production network with structural efficiency
improvements and optimized utilization of capacity. By doing so, we aim to save a mid-triple-digit
million Euro amount by the middle of the decade. At the same time, we are investing in research
and development according to our commitment more than EUR30 billion by 2025.Here also, we are continuing to focus on our locations in Germany. In September, the first
(Technical Difficulty) project was put into service. At the new fits note[ph] facility in Munich, a total
of 4,800 employees are developing innovations for the mobility of the coming decades. This
makes the fit[ph] Research and Innovation Center one of Europe's largest R&D sites. It connects
our 14 tech offices from California to Shanghai and Tokyo at a new digital R&D hub.
Let's move now on as promised to the second topic. Our perspective for the second half of the
decade of the 2020. We expect demand for fully electric vehicles to continue to increase
significantly from 2025 onwards. Exactly then just at the right time, we will launch Phase III of our
transformation.
Here in addition to electrification, the focus will be on extended digital connectivity and also
volume capability. In 10 years, we aim to have more than 7 million electrified BMW Group vehicles
on the roads, two-thirds of them fully electric. The company is already scaling up for this both
strategically and technologically. Therefore, we have established two new cross functional areas
internally to coordinate, shape and take company wide responsibility for key areas of
transformation.
First, in car digitalization. Over 20 years ago, we began focusing on digitalization in our vehicles.
And to this very day, we have brought 40 million connected vehicles to roads worldwide. They
collect 25 million bits of traffic information daily. Now, we are strengthening digital across the
company and creating a new central decision making function. All key software functions have
been pulled into the new digital car unit since October, and report directly to the Board Member
for Development, Frank Weber.
Our vehicles are managed devices, they are always up to date with the latest services and
features. We're continuing to expand our very successful operating System 7 to support this. And
it goes without saying that, our user interface is easy to operate because technology should
serve the user, and digital technologies are at the heart of BMW, hardware and software are
equally important to our customers.
And secondly, underlying product development and its implications for our vehicle architecture
from the middle of the decade. Our new cluster architecture is geared mainly but not only
towards electric drive. This area reports directly to me.
It is organizationally connected to all divisions from markets, finance, procurement, development
and production all the way to sales and marketing. This gives us greater leverage and makes us
much faster. Also in our cooperation with partners, the objective is for the new architecture to
create an overall optimum. Our new plant in Hungary among other plants will play a key role in
this ranking up the new architecture from the middle of the decade.
But there is another aspect of -- to our transformation phase in Phase III. In the midst of the
Coronavirus, we geared our company towards a circular economy. We aim to reduce our carbon
footprint per vehicle by at least a third from 2019 levels by 2030. No other manufacturer in our
industry is making its business model as holistically sustainable throughout the supply chain,
production, used phase and all the way to recycling. We cannot achieve this through offsets, we
are using renewable energies and even more importantly efficiency measures. This is impactful
progress through technology.
Ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus pandemic is far from over. The current rate of infection
especially in Europe, makes this abundantly clear. The virus will remain the biggest of many risks
for the global economy in the foreseeable future. New lockdowns could severely impact ourHowever, the same rule applies in this situation, we will continue to respond flexibly to short-term
challenges and we will systematically and proactively set the course for the long-term
development of the company. The BMW Group is in a strong position and exactly where it needs
to be for the second phase of the transformation up to 2025 with an ever growing share of e-
mobility and maximum production flexibility. And now, we are starting to concentrate on the third
phase of the transformation from 2025 and beyond.
Thank you very much. I look forward to your questions.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG. And now the line will be shortly be open for questions. Please
wait for some technical advice.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your patience. We will now start the Q&A session. (Operator
Instructions) And the first question is from `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane, Exane. Your line is now open.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane `
Yes. Hi, there. It's `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane for Exane. Thank you for taking my question. I have two if I
may. The first is around this new vehicle architecture that you're planning from 2025. I'm sure we'll
hear more about it in the coming months. But I wondered if you could confirm that your targeted
CapEx and R&D ratios remain in safe. So the under 5% of sales for CapEx and the 5% to 5.5% of
sales for R&D. Will you hang on to those despite the costs associated with this new architecture?
And then if that is the case, perhaps you could also tell us how quickly you expect to achieve
those targets in the wake of this year's coronavirus disruption, are either of those targets already
realistic for 2021?
And my second question is around the earnings dynamics in the Autos division for Q4. Could you
give us some idea of disruption to sales from dealerships closing? How much can you keep the
business going given you have digital distribution? And I'm guessing that with dealers are closed,
you can still deliver the orders that were placed in the lockdown? And then perhaps you could
give us some visibility over Q4's mix dynamics? I am guessing that the proportion of xEVs will rise
even further into year-end. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Dorothee. The opening for the first question will come from Oliver and
then Nicolas. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Dorothee, hello. Thank you for your questions. Let me give you some perspective of how we
think about architectures. They are renewed every five to seven years, and our current
architectures we have they are twofold. It's a front-wheel architecture and the rear-wheel
architecture, and especially in the second renewal phase where we are now going into flexibilize
these architectures, quite successfully by the way, but we were able to introduce it with the
current setup.Now we go almost biologically into the next phase after 2025 and the question is, what kind of
character do these successor platforms have? And I think due to the very high volume of electric
vehicles, they will be more aligned towards electric demand. There -- they will not be electric only.
They must start electric only and so, it's very much the successor architecture, but under new
boundary conditions. And we call that phase 3 because it's -- for us is a continue. And that also
leads to my answer to your questions. Of course in our plant, there were always a successor
architecture put into our figures. And as we say, we will stick very much to the figures we
communicated and that is our setup that we will -- that we will do with the current R&D
information, so here what you had so far.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Oliver. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
And Dorothee, maybe to follow up on what Oliver just said, our strategic targets remains
unchanged, meaning EBIT margin 8% to 10% CapEx below 5% and R&D between 5% and 5.5%. If
we briefly focus on full year 2020, we expect CapEx to be in the area of slightly below EUR4
billion and R&D ratio plus minus on the same level as 2019.
Now very important topic, with your second question Q4 dynamics and particularly if we think
about the business development, in particular in some of the very relevant European markets. We
believe the situation is slightly different compared to the situation we were facing in spring when
we had really (inaudible) 100% lockdown, showrooms closed, workshops closed, deliveries not
possible. We expect that the showrooms will be closed in some markets. However, deliveries and
workshop services will still be possible and we have two different type of lockdowns. We have on
one hand side more severe lockdowns in markets like most part of the U.K., Belgium, France,
parts of Slovenia, parts of Greece; and on the other hand side, markets where even the
showroom is open, service delivery is possible, markets like Germany, Italy which by the way
developed in a quite impressive way after the very difficult period in spring, Netherlands, Austria
and Spain. So it will be different from spring -- we expect an impact but not as severe as the one
we had between Q1 and Q2.
On the mix side, we've seen a positive effect in terms of mix and pricing in 2020, in particular
based on 8 Series, X7; still very strong performance across the world of X5 and X3. And looking
at incoming orders, I see no reason why this trend should not continue. However, if we look at, of
course, at profit impact, we have to state that with a growing share of xEVs, we have on the other
hand side negative impact on our profitability.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from (inaudible). Your line is now open.
Q - Analyst
Yes. Hi, everyone. Thanks for allowing me a question. I've two actually and the first one for Oliver,
please. Oliver, in your discussions with regulators these days, do you believe there's a reasonable
chance to assume that government incentives in future will be linked to CO2[ph] emissions andalso to actually driving or charging behavior? And if that's the case, how will that impact the most
suitable EV architecture moving forward?
And the second question, please for Nicolas, please. Nicolas, shouldn't you be a bit more
progressive with your ambition to generate free cash flow? The annual target of more than EUR3
billion as now been said about eight years ago, so it's just quite outdated and also looking at your
peers, Daimler has demanding cash conversion targets, Volkswagen is aiming for more than
EUR10 billion, BMW just looks a little bit outdated concerning its efficiency to generate cash. Thank
you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Ande[ph]. I think, we start with Oliver, and then Nicolas, the free cash flow.
Yes. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Yes. Ande[ph], thank you. Thank you very much for your question. I think that's a very important
one. I understood your question as, is hybrid charging behavior and the regulator may be
regulating the charging behavior is influencing our strategy? I think the most important thing for
hybrid driver is that they charge the car, of course it is, because only then they will reach their
communicated emissions. And what we are very much after and working very tightly with the
regulator is to make sure that people charge their cars and that starts with our own fleet. We
want to give only hybrid cars to people who can prove that they can charge the car and we work
highly closely with all regulators in Europe how to make that possible that we also have proof of
charging behavior.
And we actually open -- we are open for that discussion because we have no interest in people
driving cars, which should be charged and or not charged. So we are very aligned with the target
of the regulator. On the other hand, we believe that plug-in hybrids apply worldwide by the way.
It's very important part in moving towards more electrification and also to contribute to CO2
emissions targets and in Europe, three-fourth of our cars are currently plug-in hybrids. They've
great market demand overwhelmingly so, also because of the high subsidies -- subsidy levels we
have in Europe, but we believe firmly that independent of what the regulator actually will decide,
the plug-in hybrids have a great future at least in our product portfolio.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
As you know, first welcome back. BMW is very long-term oriented company and we spend a lot of
time thinking about our strategies and our key KPIs. And not only our free cash flow ambition is a
couple of years old, also our 8% to 10% EBIT margin target was fixed back on the basis in of the
strategy number one and I was part of this working group. And if you reflect on how the company
-- and this is a second element, so long-term oriented and a very reliable company. If you look at
our free cash flow performance over the last 10 years, I think it's quite impressive. And in
particularly in such type of environment we are in as the one I've described on one hand side with
short-term impacts coming from the virus and the more mid and long-term impact related to the
transition of the industry. The most important thing is to deliver.And we have fixed ourselves the targets. We are highly motivated to deliver against those
targets for 2020. The target is on the free cash flow side minimum EUR1.5 billion.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. So ladies and gentlemen, I know we have a lot of questions today,
so I can guarantee a longer time for our Q&A session today. So next question, please?
Operator
The next question is from `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Yes. Thank you very much, Oliver, Nicolas and Max. It's Tim from Deutsche Bank. I would have two
questions as well please. The first one is we're very close to now getting Gen 5 into the market
from you guys. Can you remind us on the current cost advantage or disadvantage versus
Generation 4 and also versus ICE?
And then secondly, you sound very confident that you're going to make your CO2 target by now.
A lot of other major manufacturers are feeling quite confident well, but primarily because of
pooling. How close are you to make this target? Or would you be able and willing to share some
of what you are achieving there with others to also pool? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So we start with your second part of the question, the CO2 targets with Oliver and then Nicolas.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Yes. Tim, also welcome to you. Thank you for your questions. The CO2 targets, I'm sometimes
surprised that it seems to surprise that these targets are there. Because they have been around
for many, many years and it all depends on your product strategy whether you are fulfilling these
targets and also your ability to read the market in its entirety.
So we will reduce our CO2 footprint of the complete fleet in Europe by more than 20% this year,
which leads us into a fairly -- I wouldn't say comfortable, but we have even a little flexibility in
there. So that is why we trust ourselves to state that we will reach the targets. And it's not a
surprise for us, because the whole setup on how our best strategy is allocated, our PH[ph]
strategy, but also not to forget, what is the contribution of our normal combustion engines,
because the combustion engine at least in 2021 and 2022 is the majority of the transcript and if
they don't contribute, it will always be extremely difficult to reach these CO2 targets. And that
was the main characteristics of our power of choice strategy that we will with not too many
market pressure we can reach this target. A wrong strategy would be, if you are so close that you
can only do it by reducing -- by hiring your cost of retail. It's not -- it does not help the climate and
it does -- definitely does not help your margins. So that is not our strategy, very clearly not. And
yes, that was (inaudible).
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
-- question, Tim. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `Of course, this is one of the most relevant topics you were raising, we are addressing with our
budget. We are allocating to research and development because the question behind your
question is, are we at cost parity between electrified drivetrains and ICE? We are not, we are not
at this point in time. However, we made a significant improvement with Generation 5, if you can
look at 8 from two angles, energy density is approximately 20% better versus Generation 4 and
from a cost perspective Generation 5 that is more impressive, is approximately 30% more
competitive compared to Generation 3. And furthermore, we are less dependent with
Generation 5 on warehouse because there are no warehouse in the (inaudible) which is an
additional advantage.
So still we have cost disadvantage which you probably know pretty well in mid four digit area
between an electrified and ICE part of it is offset by pricing. Why because we see in particular in
the European environment that there is a really very, very strong demand for plug-in hybrids and
electric cars and we are very confident as we are launching the iX3, as we speak in China and in a
couple of months in Europe, followed by the i4 and the iNEXT in '21, MINI E -- very high demand i3
as well. So we have (inaudible) step-by-step we will make progress in this area as well.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you. I think my first question was misunderstood, Oliver. I meant, are you happy to help
others since you can achieve the target and some others may not?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
This is your point --
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Tim, I tried with my answer to answer your questions that --
(Multiple Speakers)
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. Then I understood it. If that was the some effect, it's okay.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
We're not pooling in either direction.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. Got it. Thank you. Thanks again.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Tim. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Gautam Narayan, RBC Capital Markets, RBC. Your line is now open.
Q - `Gautam Narayan, RBC Capital Markets `Hi. Yes, I'm Narayan, RBC. Thanks for taking the question. So you've sold quite a lot of plug-in
hybrids thus far and I know you talked a lot about them in your prepared commentary. You sold
far more than your full electrics. This is contrasting with some other European OEMs thus far.
Curious as to what you're seeing on the demand for these plug-in hybrids, like who are these
customers. Are these ICE people that you've converted to EVs general? Are they folks who are
actively selecting plug-in hybrids over BEVs? Asking because it seems like there is a strong
demand developing for full electrics. And the concern would be, if this transaction -- transition
happens to full electric quicker maybe than you anticipate, what happens to the residual value of
all these plug-in hybrids that you have on the roads? Would those not decline significantly? Thank
you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Yes. So that is the fundamental question, what kind of customers do we have? And there's no
such thing as the battery electric customer or the PH[ph] customer or the combustion engine
customer, every customer is quite different. So, it's a matter and that is the topic of power of
choice that we let the consumer decide what is best for his needs. A customer in Oslo, due to
the very good charging infrastructure, is much more likely to drive a battery electric vehicle than a
customer in Naples, because there is no charging structure at all. So, it's both in Europe and what
we try to do that for every customer -- for every customer need and taste we have something to
offer him. And that strategy is working excellently for us. BEVs are -- all the BEVs we are offering
they're more or less sold out currently. Even an underestimated product like the MINI BEV, it's
going extremely well in the market. And we expect the same thing for the BEVs to follow.
The same is even more true for the PH[ph] because a lot of customers whether they're on the
business fleet side or on the private customer side, they feel interested, they would like to try out
what is electro-mobility. They want to -- they don't take the risk of making a big bet on charging
infrastructure. They want to blend into and that is perhaps proved very successful to us also
because BMW plug-in hybrids are excellent to try. From all customer tests we get, BMW PHs[ph]
are one of the best in the market around. So, we will -- we would like to convince our customers
and not to forget, this line of the equation is always forgotten that there is still a combustion
engine market, which is extremely efficient towards CO2 reduction.
That's always forgotten and it's in Europe and United States and also in China today the majority
of the market and at least for 2021 and 2022 and 2023, that will be the case and the rest we will
see. And I allow myself to see we will see because our company is structured in a way that we
can follow the market, if it's more, we do more; if it's less, we do less. And that is I think the big
hit and trick in how we see our business and up to now and every day, we look forward, it's
proven to be the right strategy for us.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. Thank you very much, Tom. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan, JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `Thank you very much, Oliver, Nicolas and Maximilian. It's Jose from JPMorgan. Couple of
questions, please. Oliver, maybe the first one is for you. I mean, you're taking the firm into a
different direction versus all other companies in terms of the vertical integration of components in
the electric car. You make a very, I think, big statement where you are saying that, you have
comprehensive batteries expertise and in fact, larger than many other car manufacturers in the
world.
So I'm just trying to think about this and can you give us a bit more details about your battery cell
expertise? What have you been preparing for the past three, four, five years? And can you put
this also into context with a new pilot plant you're launching in 2022? That'll be question one,
please.
Also if you could put this little bit into context with iX3 and maybe provide some numbers in
terms of the other backlogs if possible?
Nicolas, for you, please. The second question will be, I'm getting a lot of questions on your
Chinese joint venture partner. And the question is simple basically, the health situation of your
Chinese joint venture partner seems to be in a tricky spot at the moment. So, is this impacting
your strategy to increase the stake in your Chinese joint venture operations? Is this impacting at
all your strategy in China? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. Thank you very much, Jose. We'll see we start with Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Yes. Jose, I think what -- how we develop and how we structure our electric drivetrain is in a sense
the accumulation of all our experience with the i3 but also with the development of the fifth
generation of our battery electric drivetrains. And what we learned is you must be extremely
precise what you do and not do, and it's far more common[ph] like then to say, well we either do
it everything by ourselves or we buy everything. It's right in between and I think we have an
extremely high competence on the engine side, we just launched the HEAT, the highly integrated
electric drivetrain, and we built that in-house, completely in-house. And we are very extremely
happy about the development because the physical properties of the car and the functional
properties of this engine is fantastic.
On the battery cell, we have an approach where we build up all the competencies to know how
to develop research and produce a battery cell and leave the decision whether we to do that to a
later point in time when we would need to do it. Until now, we restrain ourselves in development
that would be developing, planning and prototyping battery cells and then go to the supplier
markets. And the supplier market is bigger. There are more than 25 battery cell suppliers in the
world. So, there is no monopoly coming up. It's quite different. There are European suppliers
coming up, Chinese suppliers, as you know, with CATL. So we currently don't see the necessity to
go into, but if a day comes where in this, for example, the sixth generation of battery cells, which
we already start researching about. We just launched the fifth generation, but we always think
about the sixth generation.
We, of course, question everything whether it's better to produce it ourselves and we will make
our own conclusions and I think the characteristic of BMW is we like to draw our own conclusions
and do not depend on a so-called mainstream what other people are doing.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `Okay. Thank you very much, Oliver and Nicolas. Jose, on one hand side and you probably
understand, I can't comment the situation of other companies. However, I can state the following.
On one hand side, the BMW Group and our joint venture BMW Brilliance, we are not affected by
any difficulties of the Chinese Brilliance Group. And as a second point, there is from our
perspective no indication at all, which is regarding the validity of the contracts regarding the
increase in our joint venture from 50% to 75%. So we see no impact from this perspective neither.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 3 o'clock, but we have time for two, three, yes,
more questions. So we start with the next question and then we will see.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, UBS, UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
Yes. Thanks. Good afternoon. Patrick from UBS. And well done on the quarter. Let me play a little
bit devil's advocate regarding your EV platform strategy. BMW is known as a technology leader
and this time it really feels like you're lagging competition because you're now announcing
something that will happen in five years from now whilst basically most, if not all, of your
competitors are already in the race with a dedicated electric vehicle architecture.
And I just like to understand you presented as a logical evolutionary step that you're doing now,
but to me, it feels like something has changed in your thinking, and I'm trying to understand what
that is. Have you come to the conclusion that the unit costs for a dedicated platform are lowered?
You take now more bullish view on EV adoption rates. Do you see sticker price parity of EVs now
reached by 2025? What is it really that has changed your thinking?
And another aspect to this whole debate, do you -- how do you think and do you care about the
valuation aspect of it? Because when we talked about that before, the market seems to assign
huge valuations to companies that are seen as structural EV winners and undoubtedly, you have
the technology in-house. We just talked about Gen-5 powertrains, et cetera, but if it takes
another five years for you to bring EVs to the market on a dedicated platform. And then only
you're really all in and push the pedal to the metal to sell EVs, that's not helpful for the valuation
in the next couple of years, if you're thinking about the multiples that people assign to legacy
versus EV centric businesses. So a lot of questions, but on the same topic. Just interested in your
thoughts. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So, thank you very much. Patrick, we start with Oliver and then Nicolas. Yes.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Patrick, thank you for your question. Nothing changed in our approach. That is why I try to tell you
the three phases. And that was started in 2013, then we said well this is becoming mainstream,
that is why we have now '20, '21 and '22 with new cars coming up. And then I tried to make theconnection into the third phase which was always quite clear to us. For us that was always quite
clear that there is a third phase coming when the next architecture step is due.
And we don't talk about platforms. I think there is a big mistake to think that there are platforms
which must always be distinct. And watch next week's next gen when we will tell you much more
about the iNEXT. That is neither a platform; this is part of a bigger architecture. And always
technological progress every year going on, you have new technological advances. And of
course, every five years you update your architecture. And the Phase 3 I was talking about is a
very natural next step in our architecture base because we would renew the architectures anyway
and as markets progress with more digital in the car and at the same time with more EV
emphasis, this is quite natural that this -- that the next architecture will have the best technology
at that time.
So for us, it's quite a natural phase and that is not anything new. And I don't -- we still don't think
that the world is separating immediately very quick in two completely different phases, the
combustion world and the EV world. It's about architecture's competence overall and is not only
about EV. It's much more about user interface, digital competencies, connectivity, and of course,
the right drivetrain for the right customers in the world. And our current market success tells you
also a bit what can be successful and with our approach, we don't have problems reaching the
CO2 targets. And until 2030 we adapt very quickly and I think Peter, you wanted to say something
also about the financial implications of the architecture.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Patrick, maybe let me start with a more personal comment. I'm not an engineer and I was
driving 10 days ago the i4 and the iNEXT. By the way, the iNEXT is on a dedicated -- it's on a
dedicated platform. Both cars outstanding and with i4, the iNEXT -- the iX3 as the MINI and the i3,
we will be already in more or less all very relevant segments to our business. We will be in the
KKL SEV[ph] segment and (inaudible) SEV segment. We will have with the i4 and high
performance sedan. So I think we are well positioned from this angle and there's more to follow,
and I think this is exactly the way a customer -- consumer is looking at the market.
From valuation perspective, we are not a starter. So, we are not a greenfield organization. We sell
the between 2 million and 2.5 million cars every year. We have to manage the transition in a
successful way. And this is something we are -- I believe we are in extremely strong position
based on our high profitability. We can invest in the right technologies and we will focus on one
hand side on what Oliver just described; and on the other hand side, in particular, on the digital
backbone of our products. So I believe, we are in a -- definitely in a good position.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
And will that give you full sticker price and margin parity with a new platform in 2025 end versus
ICE including all the development costs down to the EBIT level?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Tim[ph] this is -- I believe this is exactly the challenge for everyone in the industry to bring down
the cost level of electric drivetrain. It has nothing to do with an dedicated or not dedicated, is the
number one challenge and as we are already talking about Generation 5 level, I would assume
we are more advanced than most of our competitors.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `Appreciate it. Thank you.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG `
Maybe one short comment on this one. More important that what you call a platform is that you
have an architecture, which spread over all your cars. And when we talk about the Generation 5,
these components are in all electric vehicles, not only in one specific car segment. And I think that
has to be understood. That is the real big leverage you have in the cars if you are in one platform.
You can only apply your components in that one platform, which might be a big disadvantage.
Second of all, as Nicolas stated, we are not a greenfield company. And as I said in my speech, in
2022, our factories can do purely electric vehicles already. So the transformation into electric
architecture is almost behind us. We've already done it and when another new architecture
comes, we will simply blend this into our current structures. So we are almost through already.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
Okay. Appreciate the color. Thanks, Oliver.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. Thank you very much. So, next question and I think last question from.
Operator
The last question is from `Angus Tweedie, Citigroup, Citigroup. Your line is now open.
Q - `Angus Tweedie, Citigroup `
Hi. Thank you for taking my questions. First one hopefully quite quick. You made some comments
about credit risks rising in the FinCo[ph]. Could you provide some sort of gauge of what credit
loss ratio you're assuming in that guidance? And then secondly, on the Chinese JV. You saw a
very strong performance in the quarter. Could you perhaps talk about how you're thinking about
the volume trends into 2021 in that business? And how you think about the cost of emissions
compliance? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Angus. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, Angus, let's start with credit losses in the area of 0.21%, 0.22%, so still extremely low.
However, based on some of the indicators we see in some markets, we believe it's appropriate
to build some provisions for credit losses. Performance of BBA in fact was throughout 2020
excellent, not only from in volume perspective, but also from an pricing perspective. We've seen
strong improvement in pricing while at the same time in particular in the third quarter and double-
digit growth in the area of nearly 30%. Too early for any expectations in '21. We will guide '21 in
our press conference in March. However, looking at the indicators we have, as we speak, we are
confident that we will see a strong finish in China in 2020. We still have strong order income.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. Thank you very much to Nicolas and Oliver. Thank you very much. And ladies andMunich, and please stay healthy. Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This conference has been concluded. You
may disconnect.