Q3 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon and welcome to the Novartis Q3 2020 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Audio Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the
presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions (Operator Instructions), A recording of
the conference call including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly after the
call ends. (Operator Instructions).
With that, I would like to hand the call over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much and thank you to everybody for participating in today's call, and we
appreciate, very busy day for you all as lots of companies are reporting at.
Before we start, I just want to read you the Safe Harbor statement. The information presented
today contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties
and other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future
results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For adescription of some of these factors, please refer to the Company's Form 20-F, its most recent
quarterly results on Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and furnished to the US Securities
and Exchange Commission.
And with that, I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Samir and thanks everyone from my side as well for joining today's conference call.
With me today, I have `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer; `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, our
President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals; `Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology, our President of Novartis Oncology;
`John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer, our Head of Global Drug Development; `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer of Sandoz, our CEO of Sandoz; and
Shannon Klinger, our Chief Legal Officer.
So if we move to Slide 5, I'd like to start out by providing some perspectives on the third quarter.
As you saw, we delivered very solid results. And I think it's important to put those results in the
context of COVID-19 and the impact it's had on healthcare systems. Despite that impact and
despite the impact of those healthcare system disruptions on some of our legacy brands,
because of our key growth drivers, because of our execution on launches, we were able to
deliver solid sales performance in line with Q3 of last year, 4% sales growth year to date and
strong operating income performance; core operating income performance was 11% in the
quarter and 16% year to date.
As important was our ability to continue to deliver on our innovation agenda. In the quarter, you
saw important approvals, Kesimpta in the US for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, multiple
approvals for Cosentyx, Piqray, and then some indication expansions as well for Xolair. We had
multiple positive readouts in Beovu in DME, ABL001 in CML and importantly, a range of readouts
as well for LNP023 Iptacopan, our Factor B inhibitor, which we believe could be the next -- one of
the next major medicines for Novartis. And we also achieved positive CHMP opinion for Leqvio in
hyperlipidemia and Adakveo for sickle cell disease.
So a solid a strong quarter really for delivering on innovation. There were also multiple important
designations we received both for LNP023 and also for LMI070, an orphan drug designation for
Huntington's disease. And I'll say more about that in a couple of slides.
Moving to Slide 6. Turning to our growth drivers. There were strong performance across our key
growth drivers. Some of the highlights include Entresto growing 45%, Zolgensma having a strong
quarter with strong uptake in Europe growing 79%, Cosentyx growing 7%, it had a challenging
market right now in dermatology, but still demonstrating its overall strength in both dermatology
and rheumatology and exceeding a $1 billion for the first time.
And solid performance across the full range of our oncology portfolio. You also see Mayzent
beginning to accelerate and continued solid performance for launches such as Piqray as well as
Lutathera.
Now when you look overall at our key growth drivers, they are now accounting for 50% of our
sales in the quarter in Q3. And I think that shows the transition from our legacy portfolio to our
next wave and Innovative Medicines as well, well entrenched and continuing at pace.
Moving to Slide 7. I just wanted to say a word specifically on Zolgensma. Zolgensma's cumulative
sales since launch now has exceeded $1 billion. You can see on the left-hand side of the chart, we
achieved sales of $666 million year to date with strong growth in Europe and also recovery in the
US. Just to say a few more detailed words about the geographic highlights. In the US, we saw arebounding from the pandemic disruptions we saw throughout the summer as well as in the
spring. And that I think is allowing us to get patients tested again and then on treatment. 74% of
the newborns are now being screened for SMA and we see that rate continue to grow. And well
of course in states with newborn screening, Zolgensma tends to have very high shares. We're
also seeing an overall shift to the incident population away from switches from nusinersen. You
can see 83% of our sales in Q3 were switches. Our new starts for -- from an incident population
was 34% in Q3.
In Europe, we're seeing very solid uptake, nine EU countries have established access pathways,
it's already covering 25% of the population. The overall dynamic we see in the ex-US marketplace
is, as a country comes on board, we see a bolus of patients come on to Zolgensma, then we
move back to the steady state, and then we get new countries on board. So in line with that,
Germany delivered 50% of our ex-US sales in quarter three, we continue to see very strong
uptake in Germany. And now we'll expect to see multiple other countries start to come online in
the coming quarters. The majority of the early patients are coming from prior treatment with
nusinersen and over 30% of patients thus far have been over two years of age given our broader
label in the EU.
Now looking ahead in Japan, we see rapid uptake with the immediate deploying full
reimbursement. We've had an approval recently in Brazil and we're expecting multiple approvals
around the world. So we continue to believe ex-US will be a key driver. The US should stabilize
now post the COVID situation and we expect to reach a steady state on our US sales and we
continue to expect Zolgensma to be a strong growth driver for Novartis.
Then moving to Slide 8. Sandoz year-to-date sales were in line with prior year and there were
really two sides of this Sandoz story. When you look at the biopharmaceuticals sales on the right-
hand side of this chart, you see that we grew 13% in Q3. And in the nine months year-to-date,
we've grown 20% with biopharma, primarily our biosimilars business. But you do see the drive of
our retail sales was minus 6% in the quarter and minus 4% year to date. That's been primarily
driven by an oral solids decline in the US as COVID-19 has impacted patient traffic and also some
similar dynamics we see in Europe as well as after the Southern Hemisphere flu season.
Now importantly, we've been able to maintain our profit trajectory with gross margin increases
both from product mix and productivity, reduced SG&A spend. So overall, we have made some
small adjustments as far as Sandoz top line guidance, but overall feel good about our margin
progression in Sandoz over the course of the year.
Then moving to Slide 9. I want to take a step back again and provide some perspective on the
overall trajectory of the Company and give you some details on some of our pipeline assets.
When you look at the outlook for the coming years, we continue to have strong in-market growth
drivers. We're in the midst of a range of major launches, multiple novel assets in our mid-stage
pipeline, and have been pleased to see a multiple analyst reports now appreciating the depth
and breadth of our mid-stage portfolio, which we believe is one of the best, if not the best, in the
industry with 80 submissions planned, 50-plus late-stage programs, and increasingly coming into
focus as well will be our lifecycle management program across many of our in-market growth
drivers as you can see on the right-hand side of this chart.
Now turning to Slide 10. I wanted to provide some more detail and I go through this slide in a little
bit of a slower pace, slide 10/11, just to make sure you have full clarity on where we are in the
various pipeline elements. It's important to note that we are seeing on select instances delays
due to COVID and those COVID delays typically are in the range of three months to five months.
We're transparently reflecting that in our documentation to all of you so you can see where weare. But overall I think relatively speaking, our portfolio has remained resilient and largely on track,
despite the massive disruption of COVID all around the world.
Now with Leqvio, you've seen our EU positive CHMP opinion. In the US, we've completed the
most parts element of the review with the FDA, including the full clinical review. The only
outstanding item now is a single manufacturing inspection, which we're working with the agency
on and a facility in Italy, we've provided an extensive documentation and currently work with the
agency to try to maintain the action date of December 2020.
On Ofatumumab, you've seen of course the strong US approval and Marie-France will provide
you more context. A EU approval is planned in the first half of 2021.
Now with respect to Entresto too critical and important lifecycle management and preserve
ejection fraction, and in the post MI. And the FDA has released a notice today that we will have an
AdCom for the preserved ejection fraction filing in December. We are fully preparing for that
advisory committee and look forward to those discussions. The FDA action is -- I mean, it
continues to be in the first quarter of next year.
Now with respect to AVXS-101 IT on the partial clinical hold. We continue to work on our proposed
confirmatory clinical trial study and we'll plan to engage with FDA. Our hope is that we can come
up with a lean program that will enable us to move extremely quickly, but it would be premature
to provide any guidance on timelines at this point in time. So we don't have any further guidance
on specific timelines on AVXS-101 IT. And we'll continue to provide you updates as we continue
those discussions with the FDA.
There were a few notes this morning also noting the Ligelizumab timeline. We do expect the trial
to readout on track, fully enrolled, and to readout in the second half of next year. However, given
the COVID disruptions, we are now forecasting that the submission will be pushed into the first
part of 2022.
Now, moving down the line. The next item I wanted to highlight was canakinumab, our CANOPY-1,
as you know, enrollment is complete, the DMC did recommended continuation after -- without
change after the interim analysis, so we remain fully blinded to that study. The full readout is
expected in the second half of 2021. And similarly, CANOPY-2 is fully enrolled and we expect to
read out in the first half of 2021 for that program.
And lastly, I wanted to note on Kisqali that we did expand our Adjuvant NATALEE study by 1,000
patients learning from the recent readouts from some of our competitors to ensure we maximize
the success of this medicine in the adjuvant setting across both intermediate and high-risk
patients. As you know, there is a unique profile here with Kisqali, the most potent CDK4 inhibitor,
which we believe is most important in this setting, and also three years of treatment in this
patient population with a 400 milligram dose, lower than what we have in the metastatic setting
to really ensure patients can stay on therapy. We're optimistic about this program and look
forward to continuing to provide you updates as it progresses.
Now moving to Slide 11. On the emerging pipeline assets, on many of these, we'll provide more
details on on our upcoming Meet the Management. I had mentioned Iptacopan, I'll go through
some more details in the next few slides, but a range of positive feedback including positive
Phase 2 results in PNH and C3G, we're on track now to have a single PNH pivotal trial for the
frontline and combination setting to start in 2020, as well as pivotal studies in both C3
glomerulonephropathy and IgA nephropathy to start in the first half of next year.Moving down the line, the other asset I wanted to spend a little bit of time on is Branaplam, our
mRNA splicing inhibitor, which we announced had received orphan drug designation for
Huntington's disease, this was based on extensive preclinical data, which we expect to be
published in the coming months, as well as clinical data from our SMA trial in which we were able
to look at Huntington RNA expression. We believe Branaplam's RNA splicing mechanism has a
unique profile to be able to tackle Huntington's disease as a potentially once-weekly. We'll have
to see the final dosing oral therapy and we'll plan to start that Huntington's disease Phase 2b in
the first part of 2021.
Now in terms of oncology, probably the one asset I wanted to spend a moment to highlight was
our SHP2 inhibitor, that is in a broad range of combination studies, multiple combination studies
with spartalizumab, Kisqali, nazartinib, as well as Mirati's G12C, and we're working very hard to
finalize some of those early results, which we hope can inform pivotal studies in the combination
path going forward across a range of solid tumors.
So moving to Slide 12. Just briefly on Iptacopan in PNH, this was data we recently presented. It
demonstrates that we were able to significantly reduce residual hemolysis in eculizumab-treated
patients and return their hemoglobin to normal. It's important to note there is a significant
proportion of eculizumab-treated patients that don't reach goal and we believe as an add-on
therapy this is an important medicine. But even more importantly, you can see in the black
squares, patients that were able to move off of their eculizumab treatment and maintain their
overall hemoglobin levels, which is the basis of us going forward as a monotherapy as well in this
indication.
Moving to the next slide. Similarly in C3G, we see a very strong result, that data was presented
over the weekend just recently. It demonstrates a significant reduction in proteinuria. You can see
a very impressive p-value as well as importantly a stabilization of renal function through -- as
measured by eGFR, again a very clean, safe tolerable profile. This medicine with this data was
able to receive EU Prime designation, I think the EU's highest designation with respect to these
sorts of medicines. So very exciting data for LNP023.
Now lastly moving to Slide 14. Over the course of the quarter, you saw us making important
strides in ESG across all our operations. It is our absolute goal to be a leader in ESG across large
companies and in the healthcare industry. We adopted ambitious targets in terms of access to
innovation, our global health programs committing to full carbon neutrality, that's on top of
already committing to full neutrality in our own operations by 2025. We track, we measure we
transparently public our targets annually, which I really think is unique amongst the companies in
our sector. We launched the first sustainability-linked bond and linked the social targets,
particularly access to medicine. The bond was oversubscribed. And we also received upgrades to
ESG scores from a range of third-party rating agencies, now ranked number one by multiple
agencies across the healthcare sector.
So we have a lot of work to do, we're nowhere near where we want to be, but we continue to
make important progress on this front.
So with that, I'll hand it over to our Chief Financial Officer, `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, thank you, Vas. Good morning and good afternoon everybody. So I'm now going to walk
you through some of the financials for the third quarter and the nine months, as well as provide
you with an update on our full-year guidance. As always, my comments refer to results ofSo. Slide 16 shows the summary of our performance for quarter three and the past nine months.
First, I would like to focus on the year-to-date results on the right-hand side. The nine months'
performance was strong with sales growing 4% driving core operating income and core EPS
growth of 16%. As you know, sales were mainly driven by Entresto, Zolgensma and Cosentyx for
the nine months, as well as the rest of our growth portfolio. And the core operating income
growth at this significant level was driven by the higher sales, improved gross margin from various
productivity and cost-saving initiatives. Of course, COVID-related lower marketing and sales
spending also contributed to core operating income growth.
Free cash flow was $8.3 billion, went down 12% in US dollars, mainly driven by legal settlement
cash-outs and lower divestment proceeds compared to the prior year. With respect to quarter
three, net sales were in line with prior year due to the increased generic competition particularly
of Afinitor and Exjade as well as the impact of COVID-19 mainly on our ophthalmology portfolio,
which we will discuss in more detail later. Despite this, we were able to deliver another quarter of
double-digit increase in our core operating income, which grew 11% driven by lower spending and
improved gross margin. Overall, a strong year-to-date performance, especially given the
challenging business environment that we are all in.
Now next,let's focus on our core margin on Slide 17, broken down both again by quarter and year
to date. For the year to date, on the right side, continuing operations' core margin was 33.2%
growing 360 basis points, with strong improvements in both divisions. Innovative Medicines'
margin moved up to 36.3%, up 270 basis points, and in Sandoz, margin grew 420 basis points to
25.4%.
Innovative Medicines' margin is likely to be around 35% for the full year reaching our mid-30s
margin target a couple of years earlier than planned. Of course, we had a contribution from
COVID-related reduced spending, but a significant part of these margin gains were also result of
productivity and cost-saving initiatives that we have implemented.
The quarter reflected a similar pattern with continuing operations' margins at 33.2%, growing 320
basis points, and Innovative Medicines' margins at 35.8%. Clearly, we are also well on track to
deliver on our Innovative Medicines' margin target of the mid- to high-30s margin in the mid-
term.
Let's now turn to Slide number 18. We have updated the chart that we showed last quarter on the
impact of COVID on our different categories. As a reminder, the graph shows you Innovative
Medicines' weekly sales evolution based on a rolling 4-week average index to quarter four of last
year. We have used the same classification categories as before to allow you to compare. Our
recent launches and the detail of what we called in the recent launches you can see at the
bottom of the slide footnotes, continue to grow quite strongly.
The growth drivers slide appears to be flat during the quarter. However, all growth drivers
performed well. The flatness of the curve from the red in center is also a reflection of (inaudible)
managing. Now turning to Consentyx, the dermatology, at the same extent, rheumatology
markets continue to see lower new patient starts as a result of COVID-19. Consentyx also was
impacted by its trend with growth rates declining during July and August. However, there are
clear signs of recovery in September.
So ophthalmology, in order to understand the market dynamics, it is important to split the market
for the back of the eye and the front of the eye. Back of the eye clinics were able to recover
much quicker due to the urgency of treatment. Our key of larger products for the back of the eyedominated by Lucentis and shown in the gray line again to see signs of recovery towards the end
of the quarter.
The recovery has not been seen in other ophthalmology due to roughly a meaningful impact
from COVID-19 disruptions and the expected generics impact on the US for only for (inaudible)
and few products.
Similarly, our Sandoz retail business continues to be impacted by COVID as Vas mentioned as
well as the slide of US oral solids which we have decided to retail earlier this year. Overall,
COVID-19 continued to negatively impact the margin in quarter three particularly in dermatology
and ophthalmology. However, we are pleased to see that our recent launches and growth drivers
continue to do well.
Now turning to our full-year guidance on Slide 19. We continue to expect continuing operations
sales to grow mid single digits. We are now upgrading core operating income guidance to grow
low double-digit to mid-teens. Within the divisions, we expect Innovative Medicines sales to grow
mid single-digits, and we have lowered the Sandoz top line guidance to be broadly in line with
prior year. This is due to the decline of US oral solids which we we have decided to retain as
mentioned earlier -- earlier this year and the impact of COVID on our retail business.
The key assumption for this guidance is that we see continuation of the return to normal
prescribing dynamics in the fourth quarter. September and early October, patient visit data in the
US point in that direction.
Now I want to go into some of the reasons behind how we got behind our guidance and the
various pushes and pulls. On Slide 20, we show you actual and expected quarterly development
and expectations for the full year. During the fourth quarter, we anticipate for sales, which you
see on the left side, low to mid single-digit growth. And then for core operating income, it's
going to the right side, mid to high single-digit growth.
The core operating income growth is expected to be somewhat lower than year to date as we
will see some higher investments including those for the Kesimpta and Leqvio launch and
prelaunch investments. Still, after delivering 16% core operating income year to date, this results
in our upgraded full-year guidance of low double-digit to mid-teens for core operating income.
Of course, if there would be a resurgence of the COVID-19 impact on the healthcare systems
and prescribing behavior in our major markets, there is a scenario of lower sales growth in
quarter four which is what we assume here which could also reduce our full-year sales growth to
the 3% to 4% range as we have delivered 4% sales growth in the first nine months. On core
operating income, we would expect this quarter four and full-year level even with potentially
COVID-related lower sales growth in quarter four, as we have kind of naturally hedged on the
bottom line, should lockdowns happen again due to the expected lower spend levels in such a
scenario.
Finally on Slide 21, as currencies are constantly changing, I want to bring to your attention the
estimated currency effects on our results using the current exchange rates. So if late October
rates remain for the remainder of 2020, the full-year impact of currencies on sales would be a
negative 1% point and on core operating income would be negative 2% point.
If the same rates prevail for 2021, the full-year effect of currencies on sales for 2021 would be
positive 1% to 2% points and on core operating income between 0% to plus 1% point. And as a
reminder, we do update these effects in our website on a monthly basis.And with that, I hand over to Marie-France for an update on the pharma business.
`Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Harry. Good morning, good afternoon to all of you. So let's turn to the overall
performance for Pharmaceuticals. The first nine months, our sales grew 6% with continued
momentum from our two key growth drivers. Q3 saw sales growth of 2% despite the continued
COVID-19 impact. Our focus continues to be on driving Cosentyx and Entresto, also leveraging
the launch of new indications and geographical expansion. And of course, executing on the
launches of Beovu, Kesimpta and Leqvio.
If we turn to Slide 23 -- 24. For Cosentyx, Q3 brought us our first $1 billion quarter and 7% year-
over-year growth, despite COVID-19 impact, intensifying competition, biosimilars and pricing
pressure. This is a great testament to the complete profile of Cosentyx. The market growth has
slowed versus previous year due to COVID-19, and today, we still see only an estimated 70% to
90% of patients returning versus the pre-COVID levels. We continue to see delays in diagnosis
and slower new starts across the US and the EU, particularly in dermatology.
Despite increasing competition, Cosentyx maintains a strong position in derm and is
outperforming the market in rheum. If we look at the US, we saw double-digit TRx growth year-
over-year, strong momentum in the second half of this quarter. Our focus is on maintaining value
in derm while driving the growth in rheum. If we look a little bit more closely at dermatology, we
maintained our market share and our IL-17 leadership, and in rheumatology, we're growing three
times the market year over year and leading in NBRx share around 30%. If we turn to EU,
Cosentyx has a stabilized market share in derm and maintains rheumatology despite the
increasing mandatory use of biosimilars in our key markets.
There are significant opportunities for short and long-term growth through increasing biologic
penetration, something this year has suffered given COVID, and expanding our geographic
footprint as well as our future indications. We aspire to maintain a strong position in the
dermatology space and we're set to accelerate in rheumatology. In Q4, we expect to return to
double-digit growth and we see a continued strong growth trajectory for Cosentyx in 2021 and
beyond with a potential of $5 billion and beyond for the brand.
If I turn to Slide 25 and to Entresto, Q3 saw another excellent performance quarter driven by
underlying strong demand across geographies. Entresto's great momentum is reinforced by how
significant the unmet need is and how Entresto is increasingly used as an essential first choice
treatment. The US weekly NBRx has returned to above 4,000 by the end of Q3 despite the
seasonality of the summer, and we continue to see strong TRx growth versus previous year.
China continues strong growth as well increasing penetration and account expansion. I think we
can say that Entresto is recognized the standard of care for treatment of HFrEF and delivers on its
value proposition of keeping patients out of hospital. This is of course especially important right
now. We're confident in the future growth of Entresto. Please remember that about three out of
four eligible HFrEF patients are still not on Entresto. We're seeing expansion in China and Japan
and potential new indications in the near future.
If I turn to slide 26. Beovu. So what's new? If we look at three post-hoc analyses that have recently
demonstrated the correlation between the role of fluid in wet AMD and vision outcomes. These
recent analyzes are showing that more than 50% of the eyes treated with the current anti-VEGF
therapies have residual retinal fluid after two years of treatment. What we also see is that about
30% of patients at year one of follow-up are dosed more frequently than every eight weeks.Beovu offers. We have a full development program that's continuing and we've recently released
the results of KITE, our pivotal DME study, which met its endpoint and confirmed the importance
of fluid reduction on vision outcomes. We now have approval in more than 50 countries with an
updated label. Ex-US, we see steady uptake in Germany and Japan. We've seen US demand
recover and stabilize around 1,200 vials per week. We believe that the rare events can be
managed, and we continue to educate HCPs about how to reduce risk as clinical practice impacts
the effects of this medicine. With Beovu's favorable benefit-risk profile, we believe we can
achieve blockbuster status with this product.
On Slide 27, if I turn to Kesimpta. Kesimpta has the potential to become our first choice high
efficacy DMT for patients, physicians and payers. We're launching with an agile approach and
focusing our efforts on HCP adoption, patient initiation and access.
For us, it's key to have broad HCP engagement and have this translate into adoption. Our field
force has reached above 90% of our targets, either through face to face or through adaptive
digital initiatives. And we are now covering over 90% of our field force territories as our field
force has returned to the field. We've delivered our first access wins in record time and we're on
track to obtain broad rapid access. Patients are experiencing seamless process in the patient and
treatment initiation, this has seen a simple, easy and fast by both patients and physicians. We're
fully focused on execution. 2020 is about driving demand to benefit as many MS patients as
possible and we believe this will translate into solid sales growth in 2021.
If I turn to Leqvio on Slide 28. It's a unique product and it addresses both clinical and non-clinical
barriers. With Leqvio, we will be providing effective and sustained LDLC reduction up to 52% with
two dose a year. Our worldwide launches are progressing rapidly and underway, and we've just
received CHMP opinion ahead of schedule for the treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia
and mixed dyslipidemia. The EU approval is expected in the January -- December-January
timeframe for all 27 member states and the UK. And the FDA action date, as Vas mentioned, is
expected in December 2020.
I want to just spend some moment and talk a little bit about the unmet need in this space. It is
extremely high for patients and healthcare systems. We see above 135 million ASCVD patients in
the key markets, 18 million deaths a year. 80% of patients treated on statins are not at goal, and
more than 50% of patients are not adhering to treatment. ASCVD costs the healthcare systems
over $1 trillion a year in healthcare spend. This is not because they're not good treatments, but
because the non-clinical barriers are high, either access, affordability or adherence, which we
know will take time and a different approach to results. But this product has a long patent life and
we're committed to differentiated approaches to make an impact on ASCVD. With this unique
profile and our innovative commercial model, we think we have a real chance of tackling ASCVD
at a completely different scale.
So in conclusion, we expect to deliver further growth in Q4 despite the continuing COVID-19
impact with our relentless focus on our priorities and with our innovative approaches to deliver
customer value, we are setting up ourselves for short and long-term success.
We're driving growth with Cosentyx and Entresto, leveraging new indications and geographical
expansion, we're executing on the launch of Beovu, Kesimpta and Leqvio, and we're preparing
the market for our future blockbuster launches.
I want to thank the teams for their hard work in these trying times. And hand it over to Susanne.
`Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `Thank you very much, Marie-France. And let's turn to Slide 30. The oncology business remains
resilient delivering 4% of growth for the nine months, with sales reaching $10.9 billion. In the
quarter, we have seen a very strong uptake of our recent launches Kisqali, Kymriah, Piqray,
Adakveo and the recently launched Tabrecta. And also, our growth drivers Promacta/Revolade,
Tafinlar Mekinist and Jakavi continued very strong double-digit growth.
The strong momentum across these brands was offset this quarter by increasing generic erosion
of Afinitor, Exjade/Jadenu in the US and Sandostatin LAR in Europe as well as continued COVID
impact in some areas of the oncology business. Due to the pandemic, our radioligand therapy,
Lutathera, continued to experience increased number of cancellations and delays in new patient
starts, still achieving sales of $109 million.
But overall, oncology business remains very resilient and we are confident about the dynamic into
the fourth quarter maintained by the strong performance of in-market brands and recent
launches.
Moving to Slide 31. Kisqali continued its very strong growth trajectory. This Q3 sales of $183 million
and 50% growth from previous year benefiting from the ongoing impact of positive overall
survival data from two pivotal Phase 3 trials. We have seen very strong uptick in market share
gains ex-U.S, especially in European markets, where both post and pre-menopausal indications
were approved for reimbursement in Germany, Italy, France and Spain.
And also, in the US, where Kisqali continued to grow and gain market share in Q3, and this,
despite patient screening being suppressed and approximately 20% decline in NBRx of CDK4/6.
And at the moment, Kisqali is the fastest growing CDK4/6 in the US. We are also pleased to see
that differentiation this in the CDK4/6 class is increasingly recognized. And just to remind you that
Kisqali has a unique profile versus other CDK4/6 inhibitors with preferential inhibition to CDK4
over CDK6 and a high concentration to inhibit the target. We are very proud to share with you
that Kisqali has received the highest rating as the only CDK4/6 on the ESMO Magnitude of Clinical
Benefit Scale, confirming once again the substantial benefit for patients based on significant
overall survival benefit.
On the development side, we are expecting a readout with overall survival results from our
MONALEESA-2 study in H2 '21. Our NATALEE trial, as Vas mentioned, in high and intermediate
adjuvant breast cancer is enrolling well. We have extended the enrollment in the trial in order to
enrich the datasets generated with the increased sample size and allow more robust assessment
of the treatment effect. The NATALEE trial is on track for final readout in 2020.
So overall, we are very pleased with the performance of Kisqali. And with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susanne. So just in conclusion, as you can see, we had a very solid quarter with
double-digit core operating income growth despite the impact of COVID on healthcare systems.
Our growth drivers, our launch brands are the key drivers for our mid to long-term growth are
well intact and performing well.
We raised our full-year core operating income guidance, as Harry outlined, our mid and late-stage
pipeline is advancing, and I hope all of you will continue to appreciate the depth and breadth of
our mid-stage pipeline in the coming months and years.
And lastly, we continue to progress on our journey to become an ESG Leader with concrete
advances over the quarter.We look forward to taking your questions. So, operator, we can open the lines.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your first question today comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thank you very much for taking my question. `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley. Just a couple from
me. In terms of Sandoz, I noted on the middle management event, there is going to be a focus
on this business. So perhaps could you sort of talk to us about some of the pipeline opportunities
you see here? And over to Harry, in terms of there is a significant opportunity on the global
manufacturing footprint within this business. What sort of operating margin targets you believe
you could get? And for the pipeline. I mean things like Gan & Lee and Biocon and denosumab
which you haven't spend much time talking about yet.
And then a second one for Harry on the Group margin, 360 basis points improvement. Could you
help us understand the underlying improvement and the sort of COVID-related improvement and
how sticky that COVID-related part might be going forward?
And the last question is on Iscalimab, so it will be like LNP, it's a -- I guess a pipeline and a product
here. Could you help us understand if there is going to be any more sort of interim analysis from
the proof of concept data as that matures in the transplantation setting and sort of frame the
opportunity in Sjogren's syndrome. I think it's the second most prevalent autoimmune disease. So
how should I think could that opportunity be -- proof of concept data in the second half of this
year? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mark. So first Richard on Sandoz pipeline and global manufacturing.
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer of Sandoz `
Yeah. Thank you, Mark, Let's start with the pipeline. We don't generally disclose specific elements
of our pipeline, but we have a very strong pipeline across small molecules, but increasingly
biologics and more complex products to bring to market with the goal ideally being at first entry
of market and LOE formation across pretty much all our territories. You raised the point about
supply. Actually, first of all, supply this year has been remarkably strong given the challenges that
we've had and also we've gone ahead and informed Sandoz Tech Ops over this year. That
means that we have far more control over site utilization, investment and strategy that is helping
to bring better COGS reduction and a greater degree of alignment between the retail and
commercial businesses and the supply chain, which as you know in generics is a key success
factor. So thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe just to add, one point, we have signed a range of deals over the recent years, to continue
to bolster the Sandoz portfolio including the Aspen Pharmaceuticals business in Japan, which
helps us to build out our injectables portfolio and pipeline in Japan. the Gan & Lee as you
mentioned in diabetes, the Biocon collaboration. So our aspiration is both through the internal
portfolio and biosimilars, but also through range of partnerships, to not only tackle the kind oflargest opportunities in biosimilars, but also the mid -- so-called mid-tier opportunities in
biosimilars and build a broad and deep portfolio, I think Mark, you also asked there on margins
and we have an aspiration to get to the mid to high 20s margins in Sandoz over time. This won't
be necessarily overnight, but we believe that we have the potential to be in line with the top-tier
peers in the generics sector and that's absolutely our goal. Harry, on Group margins?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, also on Sandoz, we are in the mid 20s clearly to high 20s we see as achievable, and Mark,
you're correct, of course, the manufacturing initiatives transformation are also in significant ways
improving the Sandoz margin. In addition to, of course, will be the biologics success given that
structurally biologics and biosimilars of higher margin structure versus the other parts of business.
So very good potential we have for this business. But of course, overall, for the Group and
Innovative Medicines, also very positive. If you look at the first nine months, 360 basis points of
improvement and I think we can almost split it third, third, third; one-third driven by the gross
margin, also here of course manufacturing footprint and some mix effect that has a positive
impact for a third of that 360-odd percent -- 360 basis points.
And the other -- another third I would say, were the COVID-related lower spend levels and
another third productivity and sales, now 4% sales growth, maybe fixed cost pickup. And now, we
do expect that some of the COVID-related underspend will come back and by the way, also in
the current situation we do invest into our products where it's possible. Oof course, we don't
waste money and some activities are simply not possible or they are possible only at a lower
level. But we do also believe that most of the productivity that we find in this new situation will
also stick for the future and of course the key element that we work with next year and a three-
year to five-year plan. So we expect that with this, we do increase our core margin on the
Innovative Medicines business and the company each of the next years. And that we are very well
on track to get through the mid to high 30s with this margin improvements year by year as we
continue on our productivity programs and also figure out how do we make most of the COVID-
related productivity initiatives also stick.
So overall on a very good trajectory there.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And then John on Iscalimab?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Yes. As you know, Mark, Iscalimab is our anti-CD40 that we're advancing in multiple
indications. Our primary indication that we're pursuing is in renal transplant and we've shared
some of the data previously, and we're moving forward with an innovative approach that we call
iBOX, which is a risk prediction scoring, it combines measurements of kidney function and we
look forward to bringing that to the market, working with the Health Authorities in the early '23
timeframe. That's for renal transplant.
You were referring to the Sjogren's syndrome which is an additional indication that we're
exploring. And that is moving forward currently in a Phase 2a study, there is an interim reading out
in the Sjogren's syndrome population, that will not come out until the first half of 2022. So those
are the general timelines but we are looking at multiple indications for Iscalimab and we're
hoping for potential multiple approaches to treating patients. Back to you, Vas.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `All right, next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. So firstly, on the margin guidance, so Harry was just touching
on that. So, year to date you're almost into your mid to high 30s margin target, which I think you'd
previously pitched as being by 2022. So can you just help us understand when this margin --
where does margin growth stop, so where is it tapped at above that level?
Secondly, on Kesimpta, were there any actual sales in the quarter? Was it all free drug and how
long do you expect the two-month free drug program to continue, is that scheduled for all of Q1
or first half of 2021, for example?
And then thirdly, on the changes on the NATALEE trial, so you've highlighted you've increased to
5,000 patients. But have you changed recruitment criteria there at all to enrich the population for
higher risk patients or amended the statistical analysis plan to allow a primary endpoint readout
only in high-risk patients, for example? Or do you think that the differences we're seeing
between the Ibrance and Verzenio and adjuvant trials were actually products rather than trial
population related? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham. On the mid to longer-term margin, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Graham. Of course, we have to first recognize the first nine months margin in our
business is usually a bit above the full year, as quarter four margins tend to be for seasonality
reasons lower. So we are the first nine month at 36%, I indicated for the full year, we see roughly
35% for Innovative Medicines. So we have some room to grow for the mid to high 30s and then
we don't put a cap on it. But first, we want to get into a range of mid to high 40s. I think most of
our large a comparable market cap companies are in the mid to high 30s, but it depends also of
course on the mix of businesses and the launch cycles. So we don't want to put a cap on at the
moment, but first we want to get through the mid to high 30s and we always -- always want to
ensure that we have the right investment levels at the same time as we drive productivity and
resource allocation.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. On Kesimpta, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah. So our focus in 2020 is really just about driving appropriate demand and initiation of
patients. In other words, for us, the broad HCP adoption and ease of access initiation is key. As
you know, we have this free drug program, and this will be a bridge for a number of patients until
we get to paid script. So, so far, our key metrics is going to be NBRx. We are not underestimating
the extra lift it takes to launch a product during this pandemic. And that's why we're really focused
on driving demand and initiation. We've already seen some early access wins and we're focusing
on broad availability for patients. We've seen that with CVS, now we've had our first Medicarewin, we want to ensure that patients have preferred single-step access. We believe that
Kesimpta has the potential of being the first choice DMT for patients, physicians and payers
because it's highly efficacious and safe and it can be administered at home. So that's what we're
doing right now in 2020 is really focusing on demand and initiation of patients.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Marie-France. And John on NATALEE?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. Thanks for the question on NATALEE. As you know, we increased the
sample size from 4,000 to 5,000 patients to allow for more robust assessment of the overall
treatment effect. But I will say is, for competitive reasons, we don't want to disclose too much
details, but we do believe in the unique Kisqali profile and the overall trial design remains the
same. So what we can disclose is that enrollment is continuing and going very well, we also are
using a 400 milligram dose here and what we've seen so far is that this has been well tolerated,
which is different from the 600 milligram dose in the advanced breast cancer patients. So overall,
it's going well and recruitment is going very well. So thanks Vas, back to you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe just to build on John's point. I mean, we believe that Kisquli is unique in its focus, as I
mentioned in my earlier comments, on CDK4. We also believe with a robust trial in which we limit
patients' discontinuation -- discontinuations in the study, which we think hampered some of the
other studies, we have the opportunity to have the broadest indication in the entire competitive
set, which would be of course a unique selling proposition for Kisqali around the world. So we're
quite excited about taking this forward. Thanks Graham. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Three questions for Marie-France please on Inclisiran. Firstly, in terms of the launch and
marketing, should I assume that the Entresto field force is going to do the bulk of the heavy
lifting?
Second, when would you expect a J-code to be issued? I understand they're issued quarterly
now. So I'm assuming either first or second quarter.
And then finally, just thinking about the degree of cost advantages you have in terms of pricing to
payers versus the PCS kind antibody, could you just compare and contrast the COGS on Inclisiran
versus a monoclonal? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Marie France. If you want to take the first two, I can tackle the COGS. So on the field force
and J-code, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah. So, I mean clearly there are a lot of synergies between the field force that we've built withwith Inclisiran will require us to also build our capabilities in managing different stakeholders such
as government and insurance companies and payers and working with systems, so we will have
to build additional capabilities. But overall, I think it's clear that when you look at Entresto, when
you look at Inclisiran and when you look into the future of our CVM portfolio that there are a lot of
synergies that we can leverage across the board.
When it comes to the J-code, yes, you're right, they're are giving out J-codes quarterly. I think you
-- just to remind you that a lot of cardiologists in this space are not necessarily set up for the buy-
and-bill process, but systems of care are and many of these cardiologists are affiliated with
systems of care. So we believe that through the systems, we will be able to overcome this initial
hurdle. That being said, we will be building the capabilities for buy-and-bill possibilities for
cardiologists and beyond.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Marie-France. And then on our longer-term strategy and how it links to the cost of goods,
we of course have the aspiration to take the product broad into the ASCVD secondary
prevention market, we have the ongoing secondary outcome study and then we also have the
aspiration to test the medicine in primary prevention in agreement with the NHS to take that
forward to potentially additional supportive studies to get us to a primary prevention, which
would open up the patient population quite dramatically. In order to enable that, we of course will
then have to over time be able to provide this in larger volumes and at competitive cost. We
believe that as an RNA-based therapy with small molecule -- a small molecule production profile,
we have the opportunity to drive these COGS quite low -- to not as low perhaps as a traditional
small molecule, but in that range. The way we're going to do that is we are over time planning to
build up our own internal capabilities to produce this medicine. We are working with collaborative
group also in the UK to look at next-gen technologies, but the aspiration would be certainly to
have the COGS be a fraction of the COGS of a typical monoclonal antibody and that would
enable I think that large volume possibilities.
Thanks, Andrew. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS from UBS.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS `
Hello. Thank you. Firstly, on Kesimpta, you've been clear about your plans to drive demand in the
short term, but could you outline for us what you think the ramp towards profitability look like for
this drug? And is it quicker than usual because you've made Ofatumumab historically, albeit in a
different formulation.
Then, secondly, for John, on the Factor B in C3G, a view from the regulator on what the
appropriate endpoint is for a Phase 3 trials, is proteinuria enough or will you need eGFR?
And then maybe finally on Zolgensma sales outside the US, I think you said Germany is playing a
very substantial part. Could you tell us what other countries are contributing meaningfully to
revenue at this point,? Is it just Japan? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Laura. So we'll start with the Kesimpta ramp, Marie-France?A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yes, I think -- I think we have to think about what Kesimpta is, right? So Kesimpta is a high efficacy
therapy, it's well tolerated. It can be administered at home. And for this reason, we firmly believe
that our position goes beyond the current B-cell market, if you think about the fact that 70% of
patients are currently on either sub-cu or oral DMTs and 63% of patients remain on low efficacy
therapies.
When you look at what's happening in the marketplace today, it's very encouraging to see the
shift to higher efficacy therapies. We know that there are a number of physicians that are not
necessarily -- don't necessarily have access to infusion capabilities or patients certainly in this
COVID period were going to be looking for options that don't require them to spend time in an
IV infusion center. So we believe that the way we should be positioning Kesimpta is in a first-line
or first switch and that's why the focus for 2020 is really on the appropriate demand and the
initiation of patients.
If you look at some of the estimates on what the B-cell market could look like over the next 10
years, there are some estimates that point us to 35% to 40% of the market, we certainly want to
be participating in that very strongly.
So what the focus is now is broad adoption, ease of access initiation. We've learned a lot from
our previous launches in this space and we know that it's absolutely crucial for us to have strong
access and for patients to be able to initiate this drug very easily.
We've got, as we said, the free drug program and our key metrics over the next couple of
months is going to be NBRx.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Marie France and then John on the C3G LNP and Phase 3 endpoints.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, for LNP Laura, I guess, we'll call it Iptacopan, if you guys know the new name for it. In fact,
as we look at C3G, as you know that there is no therapeutic agent designed to really target the
underlying disease which is a complement dysfunction here. So we're really encouraged and you
saw the results that Vas shared in the presentation slide. So we're really encouraged by those
results.
Now as you pointed out, in terms of proteinuria reduction, this is not a validated surrogate marker
with the FDA. So we're currently working with the FDA looking at both the urine protein creatinine
ratio as well as looking at the each estimated glomerular filtration rate, eGFR. And what we did
see in the Phase 2 studies was that there was benefit in both. So as we move forward, we're
capturing both in our studies and looking for the best path forward with the regulatory authorities.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then lastly on Zolgensma ex-US, there is, I would say, maybe four groups of countries that
are relevant, the US, of course, Japan as we continue to launch. In Europe, you have some early
adopter countries, so primarily Germany and a few other smaller countries, but then we're now
working very hard on expanding access in the UK, France, Spain and Italy. And then the fourth
group will be the emerging market countries which are substantial markets, countries like Turkey,
Saudi Arabia and the Gulf Coast countries, Brazil, Australia, not emerging markets, but Australiaand Canada. So as the next 12 months unfold, various markets will come online at different points
in time depending on how fast the body -- the various access bodies move in providing
reimbursement.
We do continue to see a reasonable number of patients in self-pay situation as well and also
compassionate use of course through our compassionate use program. I'd say overall the
demand is very robust across these markets both below two years of age, but as I've noted, also
a significant number of patients -- proportion of patients above two years of age as well.
Thank you, Laura. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thank you. `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg. Three questions please. Firstly, in multiple sclerosis, looking at Gilenya,
how much of the sales decline in Q3 is due to pandemic disruption versus the increased
competition you mentioned there. I ask which competitor you're losing share to? I wonder if this is
also a reflection of you promoting Mayzent and dis-interest Gilenya and pitching, do you think that
will continue going forward? On ACZ, can I ask, is there another interim analysis scheduled for the
CANOPY-1 study before the final readout? And if so, when that might be? And then on Lutathera,
I guess I'd like to understand what the risk is here that disruption we're seeing currently due to
the pandemic results in a permanent loss of access or interest to physicians and new patients,
how can you retain that interest and that relationship? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Kerry, so first on Gilenya, Marie-France and then --
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, so our Q3 Gilenya decline is as expected and it's been driven by some inventory decreases
which should bounce back. We have seen, as you know, a significant slowdown in the NBRx
especially in the S1P class and Gilenya due to its pre-testing in first dose observation has seen a
slowdown in the NBRx market. We've also seen a slower recovery in the S1P market versus the
others during this COVID pandemic. We have had lot lower demand due to increased
competition, there are new oral DMTs, and also we have seen some switches happening with
other competitors higher RDs and the fact that the full organizational focus is on driving new
patient starts for Kesimpta and Mayzent. So Gilenya continues to be a third most prescribed DMT
worldwide. We know it's a high efficacy oral, it's the only DMT prescribed in pediatric patients, 10
years or older. In the US, we'll continue to promote it in this population or patients who prefer
oral, but our focus is clearly shifted.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Marie-France. On canakinumab, John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, for canakinumab in first-line non-small cell lung cancer study, Kerry, what Vas did mention
earlier in the presentation is that the DMC did meet earlier this month, and recommended that
we continue to study without modifications and this was an interim as noted previously. Wecontinue to have high thresholds for the interim analysis for both CANOPY-1 and CANOPY-2. The
end analysis step or plan for CANOPY-1 is in the second half of next year and for CANOPY-2 the
end analysis is planned for the first half of next year. So those are the overall timelines moving
forward.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And we do have, Kerry, additional interim analyses, but we're not in a position right now to
predict exactly when those are going to happen based on the statistics. We will of course keep
everyone up-to-date when we have a better visibility on that.
On Lutathera, Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `
Yeah, thank you, Kerry, for the question. So Lutathera was more or less in line with previous year,
reaching $190 million, and it is, as you rightly say, impacted by COVID. When you look at the
different dynamics for the US, we had a slight decline of 4%. But on the other side in Europe
where the situation opened up again, we saw growth of 10% versus previous year. We remain
very confident in Lutathera given the very strong profile of the product. As you remember,
Lutathera has demonstrated overall survival benefits over Somatostatin treatment and we see
still very high interest for the product.
We saw some postponements and cancellation of new patient starts. But we're still activating our
plan to further growth. We are reaching out to the community level where over 65% of the
patients are treated. And we have very encouraging discussions there. So overall, we remain very
confident and the current softness is mostly impacted by COVID, and as soon as the situation is
released, we expect to have new patients taking up again.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
All right, very good. We have a number of questions on the line, so I'll ask the next set of
questions to please limit yourselves to one question and we'll have no more than two sub-parts.
So we can have the next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just on Gilenya, just going back to that, whether you can
provide us any visibility now on the timing of potential US generics after I think will lead as the
legal cases have now been finalized? I'm sorry, could just go back to John just for a clarification on
canakinumab. I know, you said that the word on the interim analysis I think you said. But is the
second half '21 headline data that you're talking about, is that a best estimate for the final
readout of CANOPY-1 or is that your assessment of when we could next hear which actually could
be one of the next interim analyses? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I can take both of these. On Gilenya, we of course are very pleased with the response of the
District Court to uphold our patent. We do understand the filer has filed an appeal. So over the
next 12 months to 18 months, that appeal will now unfold. We continue to stand by our patents,including some of the more recent patents that have been issued. So we would expect again a
court case to potentially happen over the next 12 months to 18 months. And in the meantime, we
continue to operate as planned and continue to aggressively defend our IP.
With respect to canakinumab, the final analysis for the second line studies in the first half of next
year and the final analysis for the first-line study is in the second half of next year. There is an
interim -- another interim analysis for both studies -- both the second line and the first-line.
Learning from some of the disruptions that have happened with COVID, we would feel more
comfortable not providing specific timing until we have a better sense of when exactly those
interims will occur. Is that clear, Peter?
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
That's great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
All right, perfect. Thank you. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs of Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good afternoon. Hopefully you can hear me okay. Vas, would you mind just setting the tone for
the upcoming advisory committee for Entresto in HFpEF. Based on your conversations with
regulatory agencies, what should we expect to be the focus of the advisory committee? That's
one. And then very quickly, secondly, for Harry. Harry, can you just remind us for your priorities for
capital allocation as we get into kind of next year, and especially, how are you thinking about kind
of stock buybacks versus business development? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Keyur, thank you for the questions. On the advisory committee, we'll see ultimately what
the FDA focus is on. I think our expectation is two major areas of focus. One, on the primary
endpoint, as you know, the centrally adjudicated result was narrowly missed. The investigator-
adjudicated result was in fact positive and met statistical significance. A re-analysis by an
independent group also indicated a positive result. So parsing those various results I think will be
one major topic. And then looking at the various subgroup analyses, there was a clear trend for
benefiting patients with DF up to a certain cut off roughly 57% as well as in women and how the
FDA might navigate all of the above from a labeling perspective, we expect those to be the
major topics. From a safety perspective, don't expect major discussions. Harry, on capital
allocation?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Keyur. So thank you. As you probably imagine, there is no change in our capital allocation
strategy. First priority always add to the investments in the organic business. The second priority
being (inaudible) growing annual dividend in Swiss franc, which we again expect to pay out in
usually March of next year should AGM as always approve. Third priority value creating bolt-on
M&A, and fourth, share buybacks. So it depends very much what opportunities do we find. We all
know that these are usually on M&A bolt-on quite heavy premiums have to be paid. And so we
are super selective on them and so let's see if we find them up to 5% of our market cap andshould we not find them of course share buybacks I expect always to be part of our capital
allocation but the fourth priority. Having said that, we always do some share buybacks to avoid
any dilution from our employee participation programs, but that's -- we don't announce the
ongoing commitment to not dilute our shareholders.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Harry. Thank you, Kerry. Next question please, operator.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thanks very much. Just a question on Sandoz. Richard, could you give us an idea of how
important label carve-outs of generics are for you in light of the recent ruling that potentially
vendors from a legal in the Glaxo Teva case earlier this month. And then secondly, I noticed on
the slides the mention of Luxturna in a few of the footnotes, now with the (inaudible) if you could
just give us an update on where you stand with Luxturna? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Simon. On Sandoz label carve-outs, Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer of Sandoz `
Yeah, I know it's a really an important and interesting topic, I mean, clearly we're watching the
progression now with Teva I think going to appeal on the Sandoz -- on the GSK Coreg case.
Clearly, the use of skinny labels has been a routine route to market, particularly in the US, it really
goes in against really the provision that was originally put in place and clearly, as an industry, it's
something we need to explore and consider how we challenge.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
On Luxturna, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, so as you know, we have the rights for Luxturna ex-US and we have certainly made a lot of
progress in making sure that we prepare centers from a training perspective to manage the
product. I will say that during this COVID period, we did see a complete stop to those surgeries
as they were considered non-urgent. What we are seeing is we are seeing pickup happen now.
So the hope has to be that -- that we can continue to see these children getting use of Luxturna
well -- we've seen an increase in approvals overall, we're working on reimbursement and making
sure that centers are basically apt and trained to administer the product. So definitely a slowdown
but hopefully for the rest of the year we'll get as many children treated as possible.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marie-France. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Good afternoon everyone. Thank you very much for taking my questions. Two quick ones. First of
all, Marie-France, on Mayzent, could you please elaborate on what is behind the acceleration of
the product and if it is sustainable? My second question on ligelizumab for John. Could you share
with us how you believe you will differentiate this product versus your BTK inhibitor, which is in
Phase 2? Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Florent. On Mayzent, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, so I mean we have seen an acceleration in Mayzent. We're very happy to show 41%
quarter-over-quarter growth. This is a unique set of patients and Mayzent has unique data in this
population showing really great results in the SPMS population. We've seen growth despite
COVID. And this is just a tribute to the fact that physicians are identifying these patients and are
bringing these patients to treatment. We've got breadth in our Rx, our patient onboarding is
happening and it's easier. So we've improved when it comes to that. And also we have a clear
positioning.
We've also launched in additional markets. So we've seen that Germany has above 1,000
patients. We've also recently seen the NICE nod from the UK and we're preparing to launch in
China and Japan. So I think you can continue to see this growth quarter over quarter and year
over year with Mayzent.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
John, on ligelizumab?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, thanks Florent, thanks for the question on ligelizumab. As you know, ligelizumab is our anti-
IgE that forms free complexes and binds up free IgE. We did have a publication earlier in the year
in New England Journal which compared ligelizumab and CSU where we showed significant
benefits, 42%, versus 26% in Xolair. So based on that, we are moving forward obviously and are
fully recruited in our trial for ligelizumab, we expect the readout to be in the second half of next
year. You asked about differentiation versus remibrutinib, BTK inhibitor. Currently, we're still
looking at -- we are awaiting the full results for remibrutinib in CSU. So obviously for remibrutinib,
this is an oral versus ligelizumab being a subcu formulation. So as we get more information on
remibrutinib, I think we'll be able to clarify with the differentiation is between the two agents.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. Next question, operator.Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. One, please. You talked Vas in the opening remarks about
continued improvement in the US prescriptions. We've seen in terms of COVID coming back with
a vengeance maybe in Europe. So just your thoughts on how new patient starts and new
therapies are going in Europe and outside the US to just give us a flavor going into Q4. Thanks
very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. I think it's a very variable situation. What I do believe is that it's a variable by
country and jurisdiction. What I think is clearly the case. So healthcare systems, one, gotten better
at managing COVID -- severe COVID cases understanding when to hospitalize, when to bring
patients into the ICU and therefore better manage the load. I think second, there is a broad
recognition broadly also published in the academic literature that there is a substantial impact of
this pandemic on non-communicable diseases at large, there is a I think a broadening desire in
the public health community not to see that expand so trying to maintain patients' visit schedules
from --in oncology in all of the various non-communicable disease categories, rheumatology,
cardiology, pulmonology dermatology, ophthalmology, et cetera. And then third, from just an
economic financial sustainability, healthcare systems are quite motivated based on my
conversations to also maintain their normal a bit -- their normal activities to the extent possible. I
think for all those reasons, we certainly are seeing an impact of the second next wave in Europe
but there hasn't been thus far as severe as what we saw in April and May. And as Harry noted,
we're hopeful that that will remain the case. Now If we do see significant disruptions, of course,
we'll have to adjust accordingly.
And actually being it's a similar situation in the US, so the US appears right now to be a bit more
resilient and making sure the healthcare systems operate also I think because of the financial
strain those systems have been under.
Thank you, Richard. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson from Wolfe Research.
Q - `Richard Wagner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. This is `Richard Wagner, Analyst, Wolfe Research [ph] for Tim Anderson. My question,
one thing regarding LAG525, your LAG-3 inhibitor, in Q2 It was shown at the 2023 submission. It's
dropped off of the submission slide. Wondering if you had some underwhelming data with this
novel in a way which changed its prioritization. I know it's not a high visibility program but it's
relative to one of your IO competitors Bristol-Myers Squibb who have a more advanced LAG-3
program. Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. John, I don't know if you have the latest on LAG-3. I certainly don't maybe --Yeah. Based on portfolio prioritization, we made some decisions and the area that we were
looking at was LAG in triple-negative breast cancer and we decided not to move forward in that
indication. So that's why it's dropped off.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. Next question, operator. I believe it's maybe our last question.
Operator
Okay. This question comes from the line of `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. Two quick ones. Do you have any visibility on Sandostatin LAR generics and I believe it
was mentioned that Sandostatin generics in Europe were a factor. Are there more countries is
that becoming a more serious issue? And the second one on Cosentyx please. I know that you
say that there has been a drop in visits to derm, but we are seeing in the first three quarters of
this year substantially higher prescription than sales growth. So there's obviously some increased
competition here and I wonder if you could address the competition angle as much as the lack of
derm patients in the US, and I believe in Europe, you said there is now mandatory use of
biosimilars and I wonder, if you could expand on that comment too?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jo. So first on Sandostatin, Susanne.
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `
Yeah. Thank you, Jo. So as you saw, Sandostatin sales were declining and this was mostly driven
by generic erosion. In Europe, there is one generic that has received marketing authorization in
Europe and has started commercial activities in limited countries, namely, Germany, France, UK
and a few other smaller countries. On the US side, we know that there's one generic application
going through regulatory process. But at the moment, we have no further updates.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then on Cosentyx competitive dynamics, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, so I'll just start off by saying that it's a very competitive class and it's getting more
competitive by the quarter almost, but despite this, Cosentyx continues to deliver a very strong
growth. And if I can just take you through it, first of all, we had our $1 billion quarter which I think is
definitely something to celebrate. And we have seen a slowdown in the market. So if we look at
the expansion in the market this year versus last year, I mean there's clearly been a slowdown.
There has been more competition, we'll get to the biosimilars question in a second, and what we
have seen is we've seen a faster recovery in the rheumatology space versus the dermatology
space. If we look a little bit more carefully at the US, we're maintaining TRx share and NBRx share
in derm even though you see the slower recovery and the increased competition of IL-23s, in the
rheum space, we're actually growing three times TRx versus the market year over year.
So what our aspiration is to maintain our share in derm and accelerate in the rheumatology space.
If I look at EU where biosimilars are -- have entered and where there is mandatory use, so it'sexclusively in some of the markets in the EU and namely Germany, Spain and the UK. What we've
done is we've actually maintained the share in dermatology, after the initial entry of biosimilars
and the same with the rheumatology space where we've seen the biosimilars being more used.
So what this means actually is that we're just seeing a delay in use for Cosentyx in Europe, we still
maintain a number one or number two position in most EU major markets. And then with China,
we're outperforming incumbent biologics and we expect NRDL listing in the first half of this year,
so this all leads us to believe that through the complete treatment approach of Cosentyx we see
very broad indications from the PSO space to the axial SpA spectrum. The fact that we believe
that we and others will continue to grow this market. If you can consider the market penetration
rates or the biologic penetration rates in both rheum and derm they're still relatively low and the
fact that Cosentyx we were investing in future indications, you can anticipate three additional
indications in the rheum space, three additional indications in the derm space, this will address
approximately an additional 3.5 million patients. So, for these reasons, we believe that Cosentyx
despite the slowdown of COVID, despite the competition, despite the biosimilars, we have the
potential to go beyond $5 billion in sales.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Marie-France. I think we have two more perhaps questions on the line. Operator, please
take the maximum.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst from Intron Health.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst `
Hi there thanks for taking my question. Just one big picture one on ESG and it's obviously been a
big topic when discussing Novartis with investors and you clearly made a concerted effort to
improve the rating. To what extent have those efforts surprised you that they actually led to
better financial or operational outcomes and it's unfair to assume that only (inaudible) has
covered the expense of the bottom line. Just a bit of color around what you're seeing. Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Naresh. I think the ESG efforts have had multiple benefits for us, it's been a big focus for
us. We're really pleased not only to have gotten important ratings, the number one ratings across
many of the agencies, also in various specialty rate agencies in climate and diversity, also moved
off of the Red list for MSCI, which I think a lot of the investors had on their minds. All of that is
cleared off the table.
But I see a few fundamental benefits for years. First, with our own associates. It's a huge
motivator to be a leader in the space, I think for our people more than 50% millennial. This is a
huge topic. So we see it as an element of our own story internally. I think second with a broader
stakeholder group, the issuance as an case steady issuance of our bond led to me to get a very
positive feedback from a range of stakeholders ranging from Ministries of Health, very senior
people in government, the Gates Foundation. And so I think it creates the ability to have a
broader conversation about your company and the impact you're trying to have.
And then lastly, we do believe that getting much more efficient on how we use energy much
more diverse and how we source and bringing people into the company getting to be a leader in
building market in emerging markets and low income and low-middle income countries throughour work in Africa, all of these things will benefit Novartis strategically for the long term from a
talent markets and all of the fundamentals of the business.
So I actually think it's totally sensible. We talked about it as a leadership team and a Committee
that I chair, we systematically have the targets, which we published transparently, I think we have a
leadership team is very passionate about it and again in the long run, it won't show up in the
quarters, but it will show up in the long run trajectory of the company that I'm convinced, so
thanks for the question, Naresh. Next, last question I believe?
Operator
Thank you. And the final question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane BNP from Exane BNP.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane BNP `
Hi, thank you very much for taking my question. Just one on Iptacopan, it looks like you're also
initiating a Phase 3 in IgA nephropathy, so -- I know you might not want to talk about the safety
data until it's published, but maybe you could compare your experience with the Phase 2 trials in
C3 glomerulopathy and IgA nephropathy to the previously reported anecdotal experience of
eculizumab, and also how you're thinking about the safety of the drug in terms of infection risk
and (inaudible) developing of say conflicting opinions from experts whether there's likely to be a
greater or lesser risk of serious infection with Factor B inhibition. So I'd be interested in your
perspective. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for your question, Richard. John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. So thanks for the question, Richard. Across the board, as you know, for Iptacopan, we're
looking at multiple indications. PNH as well as C3G, IgA as well as idiopathic membranous
nephropathy. As we're looking across the board for C3G, what we see is obviously the data that
we shared recently for IgA we're -- the full dataset is going to be available early part of next year.
As we look at the opportunity, there is no disease modifying treatments out there currently. And
so the profile that we're seeking is one where we do believe there is benefit. You asked
specifically about infection risk. So far, based on our Phase 2 studies, we see that it's well
tolerated. We haven't seen significant increases IN infections across the board and that's across
both IGA, C3G as well as in the PNH. So I think with all of that information, we will have a large
pool of safety information and move forward in all of these indications. So I'll leave it there.
Hopefully that answers your question.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane BNP `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Perfect, thanks everyone for joining the call, hope everyone stays safe and healthy and energized
in these difficult times. We will continue to drive the growth of Novartis. We are confident in the
long-term outlook of the company. I hope increasingly all of you will be as well. And we'll look
forward to keeping you up to date. Thank you.
OperatorThank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your call for today. Thank you all for
participating and you may now disconnect.