Q1 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to our conference call Interim Report First
Quarter to 31st of March. I hope you are all well in these unusual times. We have here Oliver
Zipse, Chairman of the Board, Management of BMW AG and `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board, Member of the Board
of Management of BMW AG, Finance. The gentlemen will begin by giving you an overview of
business development and after that as always you will be given the opportunity to ask your
questions.
I give the floor to Mr. Zipse.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Management Board `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The current situation is extremely challenging for all of us,
which makes it even more important to have a clear course of (inaudible) and responsible
leadership. This includes balancing business decisions between short-term impact and long-term
perspective intelligently and effectively. On one hand we have measures to combat the massive
impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on our business and the way we work. On the other hand,
we have future projects. We plan to continue or even accelerate. The BMW Group is in a strong
position and well prepared to handle the challenges in both sides. We have intensified and
accelerated our performance next program through which we have tapped considerable
potential on both the cost and the performance side and we continue to electrify our product
portfolio and are bringing new models on the market at the right time.
We're using the time to make our supply chain even more sustainable. All of this helps us to
balance business, environmental and societal challenges equally. Responsibility is and will remain
the foundation of everything we do. I have three points to underscore this. First, regarding the
company through the Coronavirus pandemic with flexibility and sound judgment. Second, we
remain committed to meeting our climate protection targets. And third, we remain focused on
investing to enhance a successful future of the BMW Group.
Let's turn to the first topic. No one can reliably predict how the global economy and specificallybusiness to be impacted for a long period, our decisions and how we sphere the company are
based on customer demand. The BMW Group is located in over 150 countries with its cars. And
as you know, business conditions are different across the globe and the situation is constantly
changing as a result of Coronavirus pandemic.
At beginning of March, sale of vehicles was only restricted in China and parts of Asia. In all other
market, retail outlets were able to go about their business as usual. Only five weeks later by the
second week of April, sales have come to a complete hold, nearly everywhere in Europe and
Central and South America, Russia, South Africa, India and parts of Asia. Sales were also
restricted at that time in US, Canada, the Netherlands, Scandinavia and several Asian countries.
The only retailers opened at that time without any restrictions were Korea, Japan, Australia and in
China once again. Under these circumstances, our first quarter sales were impacted above all by
the economic fallout of pandemic in China and Asia. There was a pronounced decrease in sales in
all our major market regions, Asia minus 25%, Europe minus 18% and the Americas also minus
18%.
To put it another way, we've reached 75% of our sales volume of the previous year in Asia and
about 82% in Europe and the Americas. At group level, sales decreased by 20.6% compared with
the first quarter of 2019. The geographic spread of the pandemic around the globe from East to
West became even clearer in our sales figures for the month of April, with a decrease of about
44% year-on-year. In China, on the other hand, first signs of recovery started to become visible in
March and April. In March, we had minus 88% year-on-year and in April, we were at plus 13.6%
compared to the previous year.
But I want to make it clear, China is only of limited use as a blueprint for development in other
markets. In our most important sales region, Europe the picture is extremely mixed. It is clear that
automotive demand in countries that has been hit hard by the pandemic like Spain, Italy, and the
UK will probably remain relatively low for the rest of the year as well.
As government containment restrictions are gradually being eased, retail outlets in many markets
cannot partially reopen. Our dealers have stayed in close contact with customers even during the
closure. The dealer mobile sales office is rolled out in more than 60 markets in early April. It
allows our sales representatives to video conference with customers, so they can advise them
and configure vehicles together online, where legally possible they also carried out the necessary
service and repairs providing pickup and delivery of vehicles directly to customers.
With our investments in the digitization of marketing and sales processes, together with our retail
partners recently on the right track. Our advanced capabilities here increasingly enable
contactless sales process which during the Corona pandemic is a big benefit for both our
customers and staff. The situation remains extremely fragile on 18 March, we provided an outlook
for the financial year 2020. Global sales significantly lower than the previous year, group earnings
before tax significantly lower than the previous year and EBIT margin in the automotive segment
of between 2% and 4%. Cost of longer-term economic implications of the Coronavirus pandemic
were not included in this outlook. Over the past few weeks however, it has become apparent that
the measures to contain the Corona pandemic have lasted longer in many markets. It is therefore
clear that delivery volumes in these markets are not going to return to normal within just a few
weeks as was assumed. The consequence we now expect the EBIT margin for the Automotive
segment to be within a target range of 0% and 3%. Deliveries to customers and growth profit
before tax are still expected to be significantly lower than in 2019.It is important to me that we're neither pessimistic nor euphoric about initial signs of
normalization in a number of markets. We need to take a realistic view and must be fully able to
respond accordingly at all times. For this reason, we are taking a measured approach and
exercising sound judgment. This applies not only to protecting our employees, but also when it
comes to ramping up our production facilities. Since 17th of March alongside flexibility instruments
such as reducing over time hours and asking employees to take leave, we've also been
implementing short time working at our German plants around 3 -- 30,000 [ph] employees are
affected.
In line with our agreement with the German Works Council, we're topping up the short time
allowance up to 96% upon for the salaries. What the public wants to know is how short time
working compatible with paying a dividend. The short time allowance is a benefit paid by the
Federal German Employment Agency. It is funded by unemployment insurance contributions split
between employers and employees. It is not state aid, but rather an insurance benefit to
preserve jobs.
The dividend by contrast is always geared towards cost results, it's distributed to shareholders
retroactively for the prior financial year. The profit-sharing payment received by employees are by
the way also tied to the dividend and we cannot forget that many investors are pension funds
which use the dividend for pension schemes.
The economic impact of the pandemic will be apparent in the current financial year. And it will also
be reflected in the dividend, bonuses and profit sharing payouts for the business year 2020. In
2021, this will then become apparent. The most important thing is we have always kept the BMW
Group running, even if operations have been reduced. In both production and non-production
areas, we have continued to implement measures that were urgently needed. We put an
important package of initiatives into effect early on, to protect our employees and their families,
to maintain our operational capabilities and to support society in its fight against the virus. We are
for instance obtaining medical protective equipment and providing relief organizations with
vehicles. All our activities are coordinated by our Corona competence team in consultation with
the authorities and the Robert Koch Institute in Germany. In administrative areas, we are gradually
increasing the number of employees going back into the office. All Managers in Germany have
received a handbook with clear rules and how to -- the measures to protect against infection.
A few examples include face mask must be worn, if a minimum distance of 1.5 meters cannot be
maintained, one-way traffic rules for walkways and assigned seating on five buses. We will also
produce face masks at back store location to meet our own needs. As production is being
ramped up, the machines are currently being set up and will start production over the coming
week. We are also using our employee app to communicate quickly and directly with nearly
50,000 employees.
On 27th of April, we began ramping our plants in successive structured process that would be
strictly aligned with conditions and demand in the respective markets. That is when we'll initially
restart production, with just one shift. The joint venture plant in China, as well as our component
plants already within production several weeks ago. Our engine plants, the Rolls Royce plant in
Goodwood in the UK and the Spartanburg plant in the US have also restarted. Dingolfing, our
largest European plant will start producing again on May 11. All other German plants as well as
Oxford, Rosslyn and San Luis Potosi will follow on May 18 at the earliest.
Naturally our transition towards two shift operation will depend on further development in the
markets. And we will take a cautious approach before a full ramp up, a key indicator for us will be
monitoring of our inventories.Let me move to the second topic. We remain committed to meeting our climate protection
targets. For us climate protection is a given and it will remain one of the central tasks of our global
society. We will deliver on this, while at the same time keeping our promises to policy makers.
Also and especially in the phase of the Coronavirus, we remain more committed than ever to the
climate goals that have been agreed. This applies to both the European Union CO2 targets for
'20 and '21, and the introduction of the Euro 6 emission standard. We are strongly opposed to call
for moratoria, in other words for our deadlines to be postponed. This shows once again the auto
industry is not a monolith, we electrified early and systematically and prepared very diligently for
the new targets. By doing so, the BMW Group possesses a substantial competitive edge.
Even in the first quarter of 2020, we delivered more electrified BMW and MINI vehicles to
customers than in the same period of last year, with growth of almost 14% in March, BMW and
MINI, when it comes to newly registered electric vehicles and plug-ins in Germany, this increased
by almost 50%. Postponing targets and deadlines which we warrant those we didn't make
adequate preparations.
Instead, a restart premium could be used in a targeted manner to connect market efficacy and
innovative products. We are open to the idea of moratoria on additional burdens, for example, if
registration offices or authorities are closed, as a result of the crisis. This does that mean to
discussions about deadlines for the introduction of new and pending regulations, such as the
Euro 7 standard for instance.
Upon to my third and final point. We remain focused in our future success and we'll continue
investing accordingly. We will invest more than EUR30 billion in research and development by
2025. This will also include hydrogen fuel cell technology, which we continue to drive forward. As
planned, we will of course be electrifying our model line-up across all brands. By 2023, we will
have 25 models with pure electric or plug-in hybrid drivetrain on the roads. This will also include
the upcoming generation of the BMW 7 Series both as an electric model and a plug-in hybrid
variant.
We have used the past few weeks for the necessary remodeling at our plants. At the Munich
plant, we have been preparing for production of the fully electric BMW i4. The Dingolfing plant is
gearing up for the launch of the BMW iNEXT, both will be released in 2021. There will be no
compromise when it comes to the iNEXT. This vehicle will enable highly automated driving on
motorways. In the current situation, we are carefully reviewing all our project. As a matter of
principle, we are analyzing structural and construction projects, as well as product decisions and
we're asking our self product contribute to the long-term success of the company and is that
viable and timings still feasible, especially on the new circumstances. And since it's always
expected demand that is relevant, we have decided for example to postpone the opening of the
plant in Hungary by one year.
Ladies and gentlemen, around the world the impact of the Corona pandemic is dominating virtual
all areas of the economy in our daily lives. Although the disruption may continue for long period of
time, we are also thinking ahead of what comes after. We are reviewing different scenarios and
development measures and initiatives that will make the BMW Group even more adaptable.
Thinking in scenarios will enable us to be far more agile and flexible to make decisions and to
effectively combat the changes. It is also clear that the impacts of the Coronavirus come on top
of a complete transformation of mobility. As a result, it will accelerate the consolidation of our
industry. I'm confident that the strength of the BMW Group even in such challenging time lies in its
ability to act in a responsible manner, while maintaining its course for a successful future.Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Management Board and now Dr. Peter.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board `
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The spread of the Coronavirus and the measures to
contain it strongly affected the BMW Group's business development in the first quarter of 2020.
Sales decreased significantly especially in China. This impacted our earnings position in the first
three months of the year. Local production facilities and retail outlets there have since reopened
and the situation is now recovering there. In March due to the decline in demand resulting from
the Coronavirus, we shut down production at our European plants, in the US and in South Africa.
When plants can ramp up again or when they can ramp up again will depend on how customer
demands develop after the gradual opening of more retail outlets. The situation remains
extremely volatile. As the forward is still unclear how and when public life will be largely back to
normal. For this reason, it is currently not foreseeable that demand for automobiles will move
towards the level assumed in mid-March over the next few weeks.
As `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Management Board already explained, we are currently planning in various scenarios. Accordingly,
we're expanding our guidance for the financial year and are now expecting an EBIT margin in the
Automotive segment of between 0% and 3%.
I'll go into more detail on the guidance shortly. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly in crisis
situations, liquidity is essential. The BMW Group further increased its already strong liquidity
position to almost EUR19 billion at the end of the quarter. We still have the best rating of any
European car manufacturer and the second best worldwide, because of our solid credit rating,
we continue to enjoy good access to international capital market. We keep our word and that is
even more true than ever during the crisis. For the previous financial year 2019, we will pay a
dividend to our shareholders and share our profit with employees as promised.
Let's now take a closer look at business development over the first three months. Group
revenues for the first quarter totaled EUR23.25 billion. Despite positive pricing and model mix
effects, revenues in the automotive and motorcycle segments decreased. This was mainly due to
weaker demand in China, resulting from the Coronavirus and closure of many dealerships
worldwide.
Group revenues growth slightly overall, this is largely spend from lower revenue eliminations, as
well as from an increase in revenues in the Financial Services segment. The financial result was
significantly lower than the previous year at minus EUR577 million. Last year's figures have
benefited from the one-time appreciation effect of pulling our mobility services for the Daimler
Group.
The financial result was also impacted by the negative development in the market value of
interest rate derivatives, driven by lower interest rates in the US. The temporary downturn and
demand in China and the negative impact they've had on BBA earnings contributed to this
decline. Another factor was the negative operating result from the YOUR NOW companies.
Group pretax earnings which were also impacted by the effects I described totaled EUR798
million. This figure was slightly higher year-on-year due to in past positive effects from inter-
segment eliminations. In the first quarter of 2019, earnings have been dampened by the provisionfirst quarter of 2020 remained unchanged from the previous year at 3.4%. We expect to face
continued earnings headwinds especially in the second quarter as a result of the decrease in
sales first in China and now in other regions of the world.
Ladies and gentlemen, the first quarter was dominated by the global pandemic which is now
having a major impact on the real economy. In this challenging situation, we continue to
concentrate on managing the crisis. We remain focused on managing the crisis and nevertheless
we also concentrate on the future. We are also planning now for the time after the Coronavirus.
This is also reflected in our research and development costs. In the first quarter of 2020, we
invested EUR1.32 billion in research and development. This remains at the same high level as last
year.
As expected, the R&D ratio according to German Commercial Code was 5.7% and therefore
slightly lower than the previous year. We are securing our future competitiveness by making
targeted investments in new and attractive products like the iNEXT and our popular X models.
The CapEx ratio for the first quarter was 3.0%, which is significantly below the previous year.
In light of the current situation, we will be delaying a number of projects like the plant in Hungary,
other projects will be carefully reconsidered. Now more than ever, our investments need to be
targeted and based on sound judgment. For the current year, investments primarily in property,
plant and equipment will be below EUR4 billion, after lending EUR5.7 billion in 2019.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the individual segments. Thanks to the major model
initiative of recent months, the BMW Group initially made a promising start to the year and thus
reporting sales growth in the Automotive segment. Our young and attractive product portfolio is
winning over customers. Our excellent product mix and improved pricing also helped the year
begin well. We implemented a whole range of high impact measures few years ago to
continuously improve our performance. These efforts are now bearing fruit.
Thanks to our corporate program performance NEXT, which will now be intensified once more.
We are in good shape operationally. However, by February, the pandemic had already significantly
impacted sales in China. Overall sales there dropped by almost a third in the first quarter. The
good news is that this trend was reversed in March, with signs of recovery in this market.
However, by March in Europe and US, the initial effects of the pandemic were also clearly visible.
First quarter sales were significantly lower as a result. The BMW Group delivered a total of over
477,000 vehicles to customers in the first quarter of this year. This is a decrease of 20.6% from
the previous year. Despite negative sales growth, segment revenues totaled almost EUR18 billion
and were therefore only moderately lower than the previous year. Thanks to positive price
development and the strong model mix. As expected, earnings were dampened to the EBIT
margin for the first quarter was 1.3%.
The segment's operating earnings of EUR229 million were significantly higher year-on-year. The
provision recognized in connection with antitrust allegations had strongly impacted last year's
earnings. As expected, the financial result is significantly lower than the previous year's at minus
EUR149 million. This reflects the negative effect of the BBA earnings contribution. Another factor
is the one-time appreciation effect I already mentioned from pooling our mobility services last
year, which is of course no longer included in this year's figures. The global pandemic also
impacted free cash flow in the Automotive segments.
The total for the first quarter was minus EUR2.2 billion. The lower operating result contributed to
this negative effect, since the previous years and adjust provision was a non-cash item that hasproduction being suspended at several locations. Once plants are up and running again, this
effect should be reversed over the coming months. First quarter also saw a seasonal increase in
inventories, which was amplified by the closure of retail outlets.
While the plants are ramping up production, we will focus on systematically reducing our inventory
levels, as soon as sales channels reopen. The development of free cash flow for the full financial
year depend significantly on the earnings side. Despite the decrease in investments and a strict
management of working capital, we nonetheless no longer expect to achieve a positive free cash
flow in the Automotive segment for 2020.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Services segment also felt the adverse effects of the
containment measures and resulting closure of dealership. In the first three months of 2020, the
Financial Services segment concluded just under 450,000 new contracts with retail customers.
This represents a slight decrease of 4.2%, that can largely be attributed to weaker financing
business especially in China.
As expected higher provisions for residual value and credit risks dampened pre-tax earnings. This
item decreased significantly year-on-year to EUR484 million. In the year of data and customer
financing, we have introduced appropriate measures to mitigate the crisis on a case-by-case
basis, including moratoriums and temporarily increasing loans to dealers. The pandemics impact
on used car market in the premium segment cannot be reliably predicted so far. In anticipation of
losses in market value, we already made market specific adjustments to provisions for the
portfolio that's subject to residual value risks in the first three months.
We make comprehensive provisions for our main business risks on an ongoing basis. Due to the
current volatile development in connection with the Coronavirus pandemic, further negative
effects on the risk situation in the Financial Services segments may arise in the subsequent
quarters. Based on current assessments, we continue to be appropriately hedged against
residual value and credit risks. The motorcycle segment was also affected by the Coronavirus and
its consequences, since Europe traditionally the strongest market for this segment, we expect to
see more significant headwinds in the second quarter.
A total of nearly 35,000 motorcycles were delivered to customers between January and March.
This is down almost 10% from the previous year. The operating results decreased as a result to
EUR72 million. The EBIT margin of 12.9% remains at a high level.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now turn to our guidance. The uncertainty surrounding the global
spread and resulting consequences of the Coronavirus makes it difficult to provide an accurate
forecast of the BMW Group's business performance for the financial year 2020. The continuing
restrictions on business operations, as well as the extension of the lockdown measures,
particularly in Europe and the US have further depressed the mid-term economic outlook for
2020.
A rapid recovery of automobile markets seems unlikely. In our guidance, we assume that the
economic environment will begin to stabilize in the third quarter of the year. Possible effects of a
second wave of infection and a corresponding containment, measure are not taken into
consideration in this assessment, likewise a profit build even more severe slowdown of the
Chinese economy as a result of the developments in Europe and the US are not included.
Market distortions due to an increased competitive environment also present a risk for our
guidance. Currently, we expect that the effects of the crisis will impact us significantly longer than
what assumed in mid-March. That is why we plan in scenarios and ranges for our guidance andsignificantly lower than last year. Due to the extremely volatile situation, we have expanded the
range of our EBIT margin in the Automotive segment.
For the full financial year, we now expect an EBIT margin of between 0% and 3% in the
Automotive segment. Deliveries in the motorcycle segment are forecast to decrease significantly
during the forecast period. The EBIT margin will be between 3% and 5%. On the financial services
side, we now expect the return on equity to be moderately lower mainly due to a decline in the
volume of new business and increased refinancing costs, as well as a more volatile risk
environment.
As before, Group profit before tax for 2020 is expected to be significantly below the previous
year. The targets are to be achieved with the workforce size no longer at a similar level to the
previous year, but slightly under previous year's level. Ladies and gentlemen, we expect that the
current prices will impact the entire automotive industry for the foreseeable future well beyond
2020. Despite the current crisis, however, the BMW Group is still on a solid financial footing. Our
stable credit rating and good access to capital markets mean that our liquidity is secured. At the
same time, we are quickly and systematically implementing efficiency and cost reduction
measures. We will continue to carefully monitor the situation and are prepared to react quickly
and flexibly at any time to further development. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
This was `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board. Colleagues, we now have time to take your questions. I would now like to
ask the colleagues to give the technical instructions for the conference.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin with the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) Thank
you. One minute for the first question. First question, `Oliver Sachgau, Analyst, Bloomberg, Bloomberg.
Q - `Oliver Sachgau, Analyst, Bloomberg `
Good morning. I have two questions for you today. The first one, it's about the plant in Hungary, it
is now original, you didn't communicate an original date for opening that plant. Can you tell us
what the original start date would have been? And what the new date is? Second question, we
are well into the second quarter. Can you perhaps give us more details about how the second
quarter is going? You said sales decreased in April. Now, how about the other figures in the
second quarter? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Mr. Peter?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board `
Well, Mr. Sachgau, the first question. I cannot really tell you, I mean we postponed the start by at
least a year as Mr. Zipse said. There is really not more to say about it at the moment. Regarding
the outlook for Q2, I think in my speech, I made it quite clear that the second quarter will be -- yet
more difficult than the first one. Why is that? Well, especially in Europe and in the United States
and Canada, the sales markets after the close most of them are -- take UK for example, 100% of
retail is closed at the moment. Now we're in mid-May almost and we're assuming that the second
quarter will be very, very difficult. Thank you. Next question please.Operator
`Markus Fasse, Analyst, Handelsblatt, Handelsblatt.
Q - `Markus Fasse, Analyst, Handelsblatt
Good morning, gentlemen. I have two questions as well. You said China is recovering, but the
major problem seems to be the US market at the moment, in addition to Europe, there seem to
be problems especially on the credit market, a large amount of car credit's could past apart from
you that you made market specifics adjustment. Now you didn't quantify that, Daimler said thaey
had EUR400 million, maybe you can give us a figure as well. You also said that further
adjustments could have to be made as a result. I conclude from this that the entire credit
portfolio and the entire problem have not been finally affected yet. Could you perhaps tell us
how you assess the situation? What possible risks do you see and how big could that problem still
become?
And the second perhaps question relates to the so called car summit you had yesterday with the
German Chancellor, you and your colleagues from Volkswagen, Daimler and the suppliers, you
had a meeting with Mrs. Merkel. And there was the discussion of this restart premium and
purchase incentive. Could you tell us how that discussion went from your point of view and in view
of your high liquidity and your liquidity has yet again increased to EUR19 billion. How could you
substantiate that you need governmental support in order to push sales.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you, Mr. Fasse. Let's begin with Mr. Peter and then Mr. Zipse. Mr. Peter?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board `
(foreign language) I can give you an indication in the first quarter for residual values and credit
risks, there is a low three digit million amount which we have additionally provided. And further
adjustments -- well, I wouldn't exclude them over the course of the year, that depends on the
economic overall development, especially in the three major leasing markets the US, UK and
Germany, (foreign language).
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Management Board `
Well, Mr. Fasse, let me briefly summarize. The discussion we had yesterday was quite
constructive. Car manufacturers, suppliers, German Carmaker Association, many people from the
government took part in it, it was very constructive, quite technical matter of fact. The discussion
also included all relevant aspects. Now this restart premium, it's not meant that scrapping
business, it's meant to push innovation and the discussion was in order to push purchases by
customers, such a premium could have a good effect. We're not asking for that premium or
bonus for our self, it's not a payment made to support car manufacturers, but to support
customers who are supposed to buy cars, it's something received by customers not by the car
manufacturers in order and to support the entire market.
This is what it would be misunderstood. You see the car industry is a systems integrator and there
are many, many other industries attached to it, further downstream to give you a figure about
80% of the value added is not with car manufacturers, but service providers, suppliers and so on.
And we're talking about an effect to push the entire economy will be able to react flexibly. If -- I
mean -- again it's not we who are asking for such a premiums, but we think it will be good for our
customers, because the automobile industry can act as a lever. We understand that in publicperception a restart premium just for the automobile industry is probably difficult to sell, unless it
is part of a larger program to boost the economy.
We of course understand this and we said that we will meet again in June and I think May is a
good month to simply go and see what does the economy need as a whole and if in the end all
of this is embedded in a larger program to boost the economy, I guess we're all in agreement.
Thank you. Next question please.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
`Edward Taylor, Analyst, Reuters, Reuters.
Q - `Edward Taylor, Analyst, Reuters `
Thank you, gentlemen. Could you perhaps tell us to which extent you need to increase your
austerity program, I think you talked about EUR12 billion so far and in which areas are you
intending to make savings, for example, are you still working on Level 3 vehicles and when will
such vehicles be launched?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you, Edward. Peter, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board `
Well, I'll respond to the second part of your question. Yes, there will be a Level 3 vehicle. We are
working on it and it is to be integrated in the BMW iNEXT. The second point, yes, the austerity
program, we'll be getting intensified. And as I mentioned especially it will be extended through
the feat of investments. So this year already this will be going down and then also personal costs.
Q - `Edward Taylor, Analyst, Reuters `
But could you quantify, give us some figures, will that be EUR13 billion or EUR14 billion?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board `
Well, no, we can't do that yet. What's important Mr. Taylor is that we implement measures quickly.
And this -- certain things that we do not consider to be absolutely critical now will be postponed,
that's also somehow depend on restart premiums. I mean if I look at environment bonus, tax
relief and now this so-called boosting the economy, which is to serve only the customer not the
company, is that already taken into account when you talk about your austerity measures? Well,
no -- no there is no connection between the two. Thank you. Next question.
Operator
Marcus Clausen [ph], Dow Jones.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning to Munich. I'd like to ask about cash flow in the Automotive segment. You said this
year, it will not be positive yet. Could you give us an indication, what is the negative amount of the
cash flow in the Automotive segment. For Q2 I'd like to ask the EBIT, could you perhaps tell us
how high that will be roughly. And third point, savings volume, we've already heard about that,
you said Mr. Peter that things will be -- all that measures will be postponed. Could you give us anindication whether for 2020 you will remain at 12 or may be in -- years after that there will be a
few billions more?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you, Mr. Peter, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, Member Of The Management Board `
Well, let's begin with your second question. Q2, we're in the middle of the second quarter. It will
be negative quarter, the amount, well, we'll have to see. It depends on how some of the markets
will ramp up and its simply too early to quantify this. And this is why we deliberately corrected the
EBIT range in our guidance. And as far as the order of magnitude is concerned, we can really not
give an indication yet not for the free cash flow either, this really depends decisively on how
earnings will develop in the next seven months.
Now I think what's important to clarify, this is not about postponing measures -- of the
Performance NEXT program, no, this is about postponing certain issues and projects in order to
take some burden of us for the next few years. And I'm quite optimistic that we are creating a
sound basis here not only to get through 2020 reasonably, but also in order to have a positive
development in the years after. Next question please.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
John Mueller [ph], Financial Times.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. Just one question. Do you already see increasing demand or an increasing
interest in individual mobility, because people are no worried or have concerns using public
transport.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you. I will pass the question to Mr. Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Management Board `
Well, Mueller, the range of individual mobility is a large one, let's begin with cars. Of course and I
said this earlier, all the time we've had demand on the market. In April, I mean it was in a high
two-digit range and the more the markets open now, the more the demand will increase. The
only question is when will we get back to the level we had forecasted couple of months ago, but
of course demand will be increasing as soon as retailers open. But individual mobility is a term
that encompasses much more.
Now the -- there is like business cautionary and all forms of alternative mobility, all these have
suffered much, much more. Take all the airports for example that are -- taxis' operation, they had
declines of more than 90%. Now car rental business also died as a consequence of that and the
associated Taxi business. So the reduction in that kind of individual mobility is much, much greater.
We are also observing that in our joint venture now where we offer all forms of individual mobility
and we are also -- well we are having -- we are monitoring this very closely to see what are
temporary effects and what are more sustainable effect. We firmly believe that now in the Taxi
business that's pretty stable also for the future.But now alternative sharing offers and how this will change, that's something that remains to be
seen. But all in all, we could say they really have suffered greatly. Of course, we're also seeing a
trend that people no longer use public transport, because of Corona and they now resort to
using cars, this is (inaudible).
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Next question. `Max Hagler, Analyst, Suddeutsche Zeitung,Suddeutsche Zeitung.
Q - `Max Hagler, Analyst, Suddeutsche Zeitung
Good morning. Thank you. I have a couple of questions. Now this innovation premium or restart
premium, to which extent is that important for your segment at all or if it even resonable,
meaningful fleet operators are among your major customers. And to them, I guess, it doesn't
really matter. So this is more likely a premium for the mass market in the A&P segment, perhaps
you could comment on that. Then question for austerity measures. At Hawk last night, you spoke
of a slight decline in the number of employees. Could you give us any indication, it would really
be helpful also for your staff, what's the scope? Of course, how do you -- how much declines will
there be a four-digit number or whatever, of course an agreement with the Works Council.
Third question CO2, CO2 is never really addressed, I mean people have or are asking a
postponement of targets, you've never mentioned is other half though. Could you perhaps
describe what's going on in the background, are there any ides of actually pushing those CO2
targets back into the distant future?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
All three questions will be answered by the CEO, Mr. Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Management Board `
Good morning Mr. Hagler, thanks for your questions. Now what I've already said before about this
premium, if the customer who is in focus and we have also some customers, they are fleet
customers, private customers, there is used car customers and in order to support this premium
in its effectiveness, we want to achieve in all market segments. This why it's important that this is
not only a premium for e-cars or only for private customers, but the effect is created by
increasing the number of units. All market segments, all the fleet customers need to be included
to a premium of all those who applies to the fleet, it goes without saying. What is important
though is when we talk about sustainability, we already have a program in place, the
environmental bonus and that works very well.
Now here to get with the government, we did everything right. This is going well, not only for
BMW, but all car manufacturers. Of course you could reinforce the budget, but you don't have to
because that term is already exist. So we would like to have a more widespread effect such as all
cars with reduced CO2 are supported including combustion engines and hybrid that all of these
models in the market get some support.
On the other hand, if you are too specific, you cannot reach the entire market and you cannot
give the entire economy a boost. That's is all my answer to your third question. Now, when it
comes to our head count, the discussion in the public and of course I understand it. I mean -- the
discussion seems to concentrate very much on headcount, number of staff, but that totally leads
out of the count that we have very, many and flexible instruments in order to use employees
definitely, commensurate with the situation. We have then bought and ever since the crisis thatwe had the one in 2008, 2009, then the robot crisis and this goes way back to 1992, 1993 where
we had agreed on a principle that we will always be flexible in terms of staff, more flexible than
any other manufacturer. So firstly, we can reduce temp workers.
And with that we already managed to reduce capacities without touching BMW associates, then
of course we have certain fluctuation. Fluctuation in the year we will be around 5,000, some of
them leave for eight reasons, the other half is natural fluctuation that you could make use of.
Then of course, we have limited contracts where we decide whether or not to extend those, then
we have those overtime account and we had a very good market development last year where
over time was accumulated and now we are reducing that. Then we are able to approve leave
and holidays early now. We have certain levers to reduce the amount of working time per
employee individually going from a 35 hours per week to a different number of hours per week.
Well, we're not there yet. But all of these are possibilities we have. We have 35, 37, 40, hour
agreements and as part of our agreement with the Work Council, we are able to reduce that to
lower number of hours. What I want to say is, there are many, many instruments, there's a great
degree of flexibility that we can still make use of before we if you talk about anything else.
And I guess more than the guidance that we have given is -- while we cannot be given at the
moment, because we really need to respond to the market situation. So, my answer to your
second question was that. And the third question, CO2 postponement of targets. I already said
that this is no question for us, because in our industry everything needs about -- we have a
planning three to five years ahead, this is how our product program works, how our system of
building blocks works, be it combustion or electrified vehicles. And regardless of whether the
total volume goes down, I mean fleet legislation in Europe that is you know defined ratios and
these haven't changed. 50% increase in Germany alone in electrified drive trains, all of that is fine.
So from our point of view and I can only speak on behalf of BMW. There is no reason at all to
change anything about what have been agreed on in order to change anything about the
regulations and laws for 2021, the same goes for the introduction of Euro 60 truck. You could talk
about introducing additional even more stricter laws and we could actually talk about responding
that, but they will be talking about 2025 to 2030, Euro 60 on the emission side, whether or when
that will be replaced by Euro 7, that's certainly a matter we could talk about and that affects the
entire automobile industry. But let me repeat to -- as at the moment for the current year and also
for next year, we are not in favor of postponing any of these targets or requirements.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you. We have time for one further question. Next question, `Olaf Preu bei eBay, Analyst, Die Welt, Die Welt.
Q - `Olaf Preu bei eBay, Analyst, Die Welt
Thank you. Two question probably to Mr. Zipse. Could you explain again this innovation bonus,
what exactly does it looks like you're saying Euro 60 for the diesel you still see it has a future in
the market. I mean at the moment the diesel affair is before the courts and doesn't want to talk
about it. The second question, this trend that you identified you and other manufacturers that
people will now turn more towards the car when it comes to individual mobility, especially
younger customers. Could you -- and this is that this will last beyond the summit of the pandemic
that in the long run, more people will be buying their own cars rather than making use of car
sharing or is this just the current effect?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you, Mr. Preu. Mr. Zipse?A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Management Board `
Well, Euro 60, the BMW Group follows the customers and their demand and diesel cars are fairly
stable also now in the crisis, their absolute volume is still strong. But in relation to combustion
engines really diesel are stabilized, because diesel has advantages, it has a long reach and it's
cost efficient, so this is fairly stable. You just mentioned that diesel a fairer scandal, well BMW is
not affected by it. BMW is not part of this scandal. And for this reason, you know the gradual
implementation of Euro 60 is coming. And I guess the date 1st of July and then the final
conversion 1st of January 2021, we will be able to comply with that and the rest is up to the
regulator and will comply with all regulations and laws. And whether or not the customer thinks
that the product is adequate in the end, well, you have to see.
Now turning to your second question, as I already said before, currently, we do see that people
tend to use a car, whether it's shared, leased, rented whatever, yes, we do see a trend, but right
here now I cannot make a forecast that it will fit our way. The process that everything we do
especially also with our joint venture, this goes towards multimodal mobility, we follow the
customer. If the customer doesn't want to own a car, then there's various offers of using cars
otherwise. And we follow these wishes and the rest will be decided by count planners, the
offering of public transport and the current and very specific behavior now under the Corona
crisis storm, that also have an effect, so people tend to use their cars, more than public transport.
But I cannot tell you whether that will be a long-term effect. But we believe globally and the world
not just Germany, we believe in the future of the car no matter how it's operated, whether it's in
fleet was owned by a private customer, whether it's shared or driven, the car has a future and we
firmly believe in that future.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications and Governmental
Thank you, Mr. Zipse, colleagues. Thanks for your questions. We will now end today's call, saying
hello from Munich and goodbye.