Q2 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Unidentified Speaker
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to our Telephone
Conference for the Second Quarter Results. With us today is `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board
of Management of BMW AG and `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board, our CFO.
First, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer will give you an update on the business performance during the quarter. Nicolas
Peter will then take you through our financial results. Afterwards, we will have time for a Q&A
session.
Oliver, it's your time now. Please go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Recent months have been marked by the massive
impact of global measures to contain COVID-19. At the BMW Group, we still achieved positive
Group earnings before taxes in the first half of the year and we've always kept the Company
running. And all vehicle projects are coming to market as planned.
And it's also clear there remains great uncertainty. Nobody knows how the situation in the
individual countries and world regions will develop in the face of the Corona pandemic. But you all
know BMW. We are meeting responsibly the current challenges. We make realistic plans based on
solid data and pursue our long-term goals with determination. This approach has always made
the BMW Group reliable.
Let me give you three examples. First, the most important trait of our global production network
is flexibility. I can't emphasize this enough. We swiftly shutdown production in the lockdown and
restarted it just as quickly. We continue to align our production strictly to demand and are
preparing ourselves for different scenarios.
Secondly, we have agreed on a package of measures with the work council in Germany that
would reduce our personnel costs. Our tradition of constructive cooperation has once again
proved extremely valuable. We are taking advantage of natural attrition and are also makingcompensation offers on a voluntary basis. For young apprentices, this year nothing will change.
We are hiring again at the same high level as in 2019.
Parallel to these measures, we have fundamentally sharpened our performance program and
extended it until the end of 2021. Absolute cost discipline is top priority for all divisions. And we
are also boosting the Company's performance by fully capitalizing on market potential,
optimizing product design and creating much more efficient processes and structures. New
initiatives for strategic modules and efficiency in IT have also been added.
And thirdly, we issued guidance in the early days of the global pandemic back in March, when we
then adjusted in early May in line with global developments. After the first six months of the year,
our outlook remains stable. We can confirm our targets for the financial year 2020, although this
does not factor in a second wave of infection or more sustained or deeper recessions in key
markets.
As expected, our business felt the full effects of global efforts to contain the pandemic in the
second quarter. Our sales fell by a quarter from the previous year. The markets are now
recovering, but at varying speeds and different levels of intensity. In China, we were once again
able to deliver more vehicles to customers in the second quarter than in the same period last
year with growth of almost 17%. In Europe and the Americas, on the other hand, second quarter
deliveries were significantly lower.
What matters now is how robust this upward trend is and when individual markets will follow suit.
In July, sales were moving in the right direction. At Group level, our automotive sales posted a
significant year-on-year increase for the months. However, in the comparative months of 2019,
there was a model changeover for the 3 Series in China and in Germany there are currently
positive effects from the reduction of the value added tax.
At this point, we are cautiously optimistic about the second half of the year. The new BMW 2
Series Gran Coupe, 4 Series Coupe, the 5 Series, the 6 Series Gran Turismo and the iX3, along
with plug-in hybrids like the x2, 3 Series Touring and 5 Series will all create press momentum.
The backbone of the BMW Group has always been based on our strong cost consciousness and
financial strength. We've reported a profit for 44 consecutive quarters and that is why we are
able to make targeted investments in our future, even during the conditions and uncertainties
resulting from COVID-19. In September, for example, we will mark the first milestone in our major
project for future. Research and development activities at our Munich location will be substantially
expanded up to 2050.
And of course, we are making good progress with electrification. Even with the restrictions from
the Coronavirus pandemic, we sold more electrified vehicles in the first six months of 2020 than
in the same period last year. More than 61,600 vehicles is an increase of 3.4%. In July, there was a
real push. Sales of our electrified BMWs and MINI models were up more than 50% year-on-year.
For the whole year, we are moving towards a total of 200,000 electrified vehicles. The plug-in
hybrid models BMW offers in all segments are especially popular. This shows we are on the right
track. And we can already say with confidence that we will fully meet and even outperform the
European Union's CO2 target for this year by lowering our fleet emissions by more than 20%.
Incentives in individual EU countries are also having a positive effect and we continue to start by
our plans all plug-in hybrids and all-electric models will be launched as planned. The popularity of
the MINI Electric has well exceeded our expectations. The BMW iX3 will follow later this year
initially for our customers in China.Our first fully electric sports activity vehicle is impressive in many respects. It's both an electric
range of over 500 kilometres according to NEDC and 460 kilometres according to WLTP, a
drivetrain we developed and produced in-house, including an electric engine with rare earth, and
the latest version of the BMW Operating System 7 including over-the-air updates.
Currently, we are hosting our Electric Days in Munich. Media representatives will have the chance
to drive and experience our full range of electrified vehicles for themselves, including the new
BMW 545e that will be available starting in autumn. And they can also experience our eDrive
Zones. As you know, we're actively helping our customers use their plug-in hybrids in the way that
is best for the environment.
Our electro offensive is also part of our Company's new strategic direction. For me premium and
sustainability are inseparable. Our mobility, like everything else is only justified, if it is not in the
opposition to an intact planet as the basis of life and humanity. Exceptional products are
especially desirable if they are sustainable and we can use and consume them with a clear
conscious.
For this reasons, we at the BMW Group will focus even more beyond our product and their
attributes. That is why we are expanding the dimensions of our corporate responsibility to a full
scope of sustainability.
How sustainable are our vehicles produced, which raw materials do they contain and how are
those materially extracted, what's the environmental impact of our vehicles while customers are
using them and what happens afterwards when their service life is over. All these experts are
essentials to commercial success in the future. Therefore, we are designing solutions to reduce
our environmental footprint in a sustainable way.
And let's be clear, this is a mammoth challenge that will require efforts from all of us. However,
we don't want to wait until the distant future to make a difference. It is important to everyone at
the BMW Group that we will take action here and now. We are setting ourselves highly ambitious
goals for the current decade. This is a timeline we can oversee our ourselves and directly taking
responsibility for it.
Sustainability and resource efficiency are anchored throughout the Company with corresponding
targets. This applies to all divisions from purchasing to development and production, all the way
to sales and administration. It also applies to our top executives. Going forward, our
compensation will be tied to what we actually will achieve in this area. In this way, we can take
sustainability to a whole new level and make it part of the BMW mindset.
We are substantially reducing CO2 throughout the entire value chain. My team on the Board and I
have a clear direction forward. We are using 2019 as the starting point for our timeline up to
2030. Our ambitious targets, up to 2030 are as follows. In the use phase minus 40% CO2 per
vehicle, in production minus 80% CO2 per vehicle and in the supply chain, minus 20% per vehicle,
reversing the trend by which CO2 would actually rise as a result of increasing e-mobility.
The aim is to reduce total carbon emissions per vehicle by at least a third across all of these
phases. With around 2.5 million new vehicles per year, that adds up to over 40 million tonnes less
CO2 worldwide. This makes us the first in our industry to set ourselves concrete targets for CO2
reduction throughout the entire lifecycle from the supply chain through production to the end of
the use phase and beyond.
We will do all of these things in accordance with the guidelines of the globally recognized Science
Based Targets initiative. The initiative's overall aim is that Science Based Target setting becomesstandard business practice and corporations will play a major role in driving down greenhouse gas
emissions.
Let's quickly begin with our vehicle fleet. We will continue to expand e-mobility on a large-scale. In
10 years, we aim to have delivered more than 7 million electrified vehicles to customers total, two
thirds of them will be fully electric. By 2023, we will have some 25 electrified models in our lineup.
This will include fully electric variance of the next generation BMW 7 Series, the X1 and 5 Series.
Customers will also be able to choose either a plug-in hybrid or an efficient diesel or petrol
engine with 48-volt technology. The power of choice will continue to be an important part of our
drive towards sustainable mobility. We will win customers over by offering options to suit their
individual needs and preferences.
Next, to our locations and facilities worldwide, what you need to know here is that we've already
lowered emissions per vehicle produced by more than 70% since 2006. We are the clear industry
leader in this area and we will now take it one step further. Our new goal for our own locations
goes even further than limiting the increase in the temperature to 1.5 degrees.
How do we achieve this? Starting this year, all BMW sites worldwide will source only green power.
We are systematically applying data analytics in production. We are expanding renewable energy
sources at all our locations. This also includes green hydrogen for logistical purposes. And we will
fully offset the remaining CO2 emissions from 2021 on with appropriate certificates.
And also take a look at the supply chain. What you need to know is that more e-mobility will
automatically lead to higher CO2 emissions per vehicle in the supply chain because producing
high voltage batteries is very energy-intensive. An increase of around 40% in CO2 in the supply
chain by 2030 is inherent to the system. We don't just want to stop this. We intend to reverse this
trend and reduce our supply chain's carbon footprint by 20%. In this way, we can create the most
sustainable supply chain in our industry. We are also making CO2 a criterion for awarding
contracts from our EUR60 billion purchasing volume and of course, we will continue working
together with our suppliers as partners in the future.
Our suppliers will only source green power to produce better results for us and we have agreed
upon that in our contracts. This measure alone will save around 10 million tons of CO2 over the
next 10 years. And we will gradually expand the use of green power to our component and raw
material supplies throughout the entire supply chain.
In addition to these three elements of sustainability, use phase production and the supply chain,
we will also be adding another component. How do we basically deal with the resources and
value of the raw materials? Natural resources are finite, that is why we have to use them sparingly.
When we use them, we should use them at least more than once and make sure we recycle
them. This requires redirecting the underlying flow of resources and closing the material slope.
Raw materials can be used much more efficiently in this way. And of course, in this context,
recycling takes on a whole new relevance on top of that we are already today be able to recycle
our vehicles by 95%.
As you can see with this new strategic direction, the BMW Group is systematically developing its
business model towards a circular economy and thereby, staying efficient. Our efforts are
focused on making our vehicles and our entire value chain the most sustainable in our industry.
The road ahead will be long and challenging, but we are convinced it will be worth it. Our holistic
approach is right on track to achieve significantly more than the 2 degree goal for limiting CO2
emissions worldwide.Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few months, we have proven once again that even in
challenging times we are thinking well ahead to the future, a future in which individual mobility
remains a crucial element in society. To this end, we continue to make targeted investments in
relevant future fields and technology. We will invest EUR30 billion in research and development
up to 2025. The BMW Group currently has a high level of liquidity and good access to the capital
markets and manages its costs very stringently. In this way, even under the conditions of a
continuing Corona pandemic, we assume overall responsibility and are reliable partner for all our
stakeholders.
Thank you very much.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Oliver. Please, Nicolas, go ahead.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In the second quarter, as expected, the Corona crisis
had a strong impact on our business. However, because we consequently took action to secure
our liquidity, applied strict cost discipline and leveraged opportunities, for example, in China and
Korea, we were able to limit the effects of the pandemic on the BMW Group. Our flexibility in all
areas of the Company has been particularly valuable, enabling us to continue steering the
Company according to demand.
As previously announced, we significantly reduced inventory in the second quarter to bolster our
free cash flow. As measures to contain the virus have gradually been relaxed after almost
complete lockdown, business has now stabilized somewhat as expected. The sustainability of the
current recovery will depend on how infection rates continue to develop, the politically response
and the resulting economic impact.
Development in the markets around the world varies greatly. In China, the market has been
developing better than expected and we are benefiting from our strong market presence in
China and good local supply situation. The same applies to Korea. We are now also seeing a
slight recovery in Germany. We are, therefore, on track to meet our targets for the year as
planned.
Against this backdrop, we are cautiously optimistic about the second half of the year. However,
we will continue to monitor the situation very closely so we can respond quickly and flexibly if
needed to what remains a highly volatile situation. Our outlook does not currently factor in any
renewed deterioration of the situation or possible second wave of infection and containment
measures.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now turn to the financial figures for the Group. After starting out in
January with strong product and market momentum, first quarter earnings were dampened by
the situation emerging in China. In the second quarter, business in China bounced back, but by
then, the global spread of the pandemic brought wide-ranging sales restrictions in almost all
other markets. As a result, revenues for the first half year fell to EUR43.23 billion. Thanks to swift
and systematic corrective action, Group earnings before tax for the first half year reached almost
EUR500 million despite the challenging conditions.
With sales suspended for nearly two months in many key markets, the total for the quarter was
minus EUR300 million. The Group EBT margin was 1.2% for the first half of the year and minus1.5% for the second quarter. As I already mentioned the main influencing factor was the
temporary closure of retail outlets and the resulting loss of vehicle and after sales business.
Provisions for residual value and credit risks were also adjusted to reflect the current volatility.
Also affecting Group EBT are the high expenses for our successful electro offensive. On the other
hand, a strong product mix and better pricing from our young model line-up produced a positive
effect. We were also able to lower personnel costs, as well as expenses for marketing and
communications.
Our performance program plays an important part in managing this unprecedented situation. We
are benefiting now from the important work done over the past three years, which allows us to
act effectively and efficiently. The performance program also gives us the leeway to continue
systematically investing in the future during these challenging times.
Our focus is clearly on the topics that are important to us like emission free drivetrains,
sustainable mobility and autonomous driving. We are mainly concentrating on market launch for
full electric models like the BMW iX3 in 2020, and the i4 and iNEXT in 2021.
We are also launching new plug-in hybrid models such as the 3 Series and the 5 Series Touring.
Furthermore, we are continuing to make upfront investments for our next generation of electric
models.
The BMW Group's R&D ratio for the first half year was 6.6%. This slight increase from last year
reflects lower revenues due to Corona. In view of the current situation, we have adjusted,
prioritized and focused our investment activities. We will continue to pursue future projects to
leverage and expand our competitive edge. Capital expenditure for the first half year totaled
around EUR1.48 billion. The CapEx ratio therefore decreased to 3.4%. Capital expenditure for
property, plant and equipment for the full year will be below EUR4 billion.
The financial result for the second quarter increased to EUR366 million, mainly thanks to a strong
performance by our Chinese joint venture BBA on both volume and pricing. The sale of shares in
HERE to the Mitsubishi Corporation and NTT also had a positive effect. The financial result for the
year through the end of June was minus EUR211 million.
The positive appreciation effect from pooling our mobility services with Daimler in 2019
negatively impacted the year-on-year comparison. Tailwinds from fair value gains recognized on
marketable securities in the second quarter could not fully offset the headwinds from lower
interest rates in the US in the first quarter, in particular.
A word about inter-segment eliminations, which at EUR1.3 billion were significantly higher in the
first six months than last year. In inter-segment eliminations, profit earned in the automotive
segment from leased vehicles are taken back at the time of sales and pro-rated over the term of
the leasing contract. The decline in new leasing business caused by the Corona crisis had a
positive effect in the inter-segment elimination since margin realization from previous year
exceeds margin eliminations from new business in 2020.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the individual segments. In the automotive segment,
vehicle sales for the first half year decreased by 23% overall to just under 963,000 units. At the
same time, we are seeing a positive development in China where our second quarter sales were
already higher year-on-year. We also saw the first signs of recovery worldwide in June and July.
With restrictions on sales during the first six months, revenues in the automotive segment totaled
EUR32.87 billion. The figure for the second quarter was EUR14.88 billion. Thanks to the strongmodel mix and better pricing, revenues decreased at a lower rate than sales.
As expected, the operating result totaled minus EUR1.33 billion for the year to the end of June
and minus EUR1.55 billion for the second quarter. This mainly reflects the volume lost due to the
temporary closure of many retail outlets, especially between March and May. Additionally,
provisions for residual value risk in a three-digit million amount had an impact on earnings.
However, tailwinds from lower personnel costs and selling expenses as well as ongoing efficiency
programs helped stabilized earnings.
Despite an EBIT margin of minus 4.0% for the first half of the year, we are on course to meet our
guidance of 0% to 3% for the full year as planned. Compared with the previous year, the financial
result benefited from two effects in the second quarter. On the one hand, BBA contributed
EUR176 million more to earnings than in the same quarter of last year. Additionally, the sale of
shares in the mapping service HERE to Mitsubishi and NTT also had a positive valuation effect.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now take a look at free cash flow in the automotive segment. This
stood at almost minus EUR0.3 billion in the second quarter, mainly due to the decrease in pre-tax
earnings. We were able to bolster free cash flow in the second quarter by consistently managing
working capital and specifically by significantly reducing inventory.
We expect to report positive numbers again in the third and fourth quarters, and to continue
steadily improving. We have already taken effective measures to achieve this. Over the coming
months, we will set all levers in motion to get our free cash flow for the full year back to positive
territory despite all the challenges. Not included in the free cash flow are possible payments
related to the antitrust provision.
Overall, our liquidity position remains excellent. By the end of June, Group liquidity had increased
to EUR21.7 billion. This gives us a liquidity reserves we need to remain flexible and able to take
action at all times if the situation should deteriorate. If the situation continues to stabilize, Group
liquidity will return to pre-crisis levels by the end of the year.
Compared with our competitors, we continue to benefit from attractive refinancing conditions
thanks to our good credit ratings even in these highly volatile times and we retain the confidence
of the capital markets.
Ladies and gentlemen, now, let's move on to the financial services segment, which was also
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the second quarter. The total of around 804,000 new
financing and leasing contracts were concluded with retail customers in the first half of 2020. A
decrease of 17.2% year-on-year. The total portfolio of 5.5 million retail contracts was at the same
level as the start of the year.
Due to the slump in demand caused by the depend and higher risk provisioning in the light of the
worldwide slowdown of the economy in the second quarter, segment earnings before tax for the
first half year decreased significantly to EUR581 million. We constantly monitor the development
of all the main business risks. Based on current assessments, we are appropriately hedged
against residual value and credit risks.
Let's turn now to the motorcycle segment, which also felt the impact of the Coronavirus
pandemic. However, we did see a slight seasonal catch-up effect in the second quarter after a
number of European markets gradually reopened. Despite temporary retail closures, a total of
around 77,000 motorcycles were delivered to customers in the first half of the year. The segment
reported an operating result of EUR65 million and an EBIT margin of 6.0%.Ladies and gentlemen, let's now take a look at our guidance for the year. Our forecast still
assumes the economic environment will stabilize slightly over the course of the third quarter.
Moreover, our outlook does not factor in the possible impact of the rising infections for COVID-19
and containment measures. The same applies to the risk of production stoppages resulting from
local Coronavirus outbreaks near plant sites.
The possible economic downturn in China due to recession in other regions of the world is also
not taken into account here. Supply disruptions from more intense competition also pose a risk
for our guidance.
Automobile markets are only recovering slowly, despite the current signs of recovery, we expect
to see a significant decline in the global premium segment of almost 20% this year. We are,
therefore, still assuming that global vehicle sales at the BMW Group will be significantly lower in
2020 than last year. In the automotive segment, we still expect the EBIT margin to be within the
range of 0% to 3%.
Deliveries in the motorcycles segment are likely to decrease significantly during the forecast
period with an EBIT margin of between 3% and 5%. On the financial services side, we anticipate a
moderate decrease in return on equity, mainly due to the decline in new business and an
increase in risk provisioning. Group earnings before tax will remain well below last year's figure.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are cautiously optimistic about the second half of the year. Thanks to
our good credit ratings and the immediate action we have taken, we have an excellent liquidity
basis. Having good access to capital markets, secures our operational capabilities at all times.
Our focus is on safeguarding earnings and stabilizing free cash flow. Over the coming months, we
will set all levers in motion to get our free cash flow for the full year back to positive territory. As
mentioned before, possible payments related to the antitrust provision are not included in the
free cash flow.
To achieve this, we have set many measures in motion, some of which have already had an
impact in the second quarter. This includes, for example, the systematic management of our
vehicle inventory. We will see further efficiency gains in the second half of the year as we intensify
and extend our performance program.
Absolute cost discipline and fully leveraging the opportunities presented will remain a clear focus
in all areas of the Company in the second half of the year. This will pave the way for us to meet
our targets for the year as planned. Thank you.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.
Please wait for some technical advice.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) One moment please for the first question. And the first question is from Jose
Asumendi, JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan `Thanks very much. Jose, JPMorgan. Hello, Oliver and Nicolas. Couple of items, please. And I'm
trying to understand how BMW is using the current situation to come out stronger from this crisis?
And looking to get also, I guess a confirmation that you are also looking to achieve that 6% to 8%
margin target in the near term. So the specific questions please behind this topic is, can you
quantify please the impact of these agreements you've done with the unions, specifically the
40% (inaudible) reduction, how much EBIT wise, will it improve the performance of the auto
division and from which quarter will it will kick in?
The second question please around the 6,000 workers you have agreed with the unions to leave
gradually. Could you quantify a bit the time frame behind this workers leaving? And the third
question a bit more strategic for Oliver, please, can you speak a bit about the ramp up of your
Mexican plant and what is the status of the Hungary plant at this stage? And how are you
progressing across both plants? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Jose. We start with Oliver and sort of the plant in Mexico and
Hungary. Yes.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you for your questions, Jose. Let me start with the two plants. The Mexican plant,
which we opened now some three years ago, I think, it's currently fully running. We currently have
-- despite the pandemic evolving in the United States and also in Mexico, we don't see any larger
supply problems. So our plants in Mexico and also in Spartanburg are running full steam. They
both produce vehicles, which are in high demand, Mexico the 3 Series and Spartanburg our X
models. So currently our fingers are crossed for supply chain, and also the plants supply the
markets in a very good fashion.
To your second question, the 6,000 workforce reduction time-frame, this is directed towards the
end of 2021, about half of which we will do this year. What you must know that temporary workers
where we usually have a very high proportion of it is not included in that. We reduced during the
pandemic without being seen in our official structure because these were temporary workers,
more than 12,000 workers we were able to reduce during the low point of the pandemic. Some
of which we have now employed again because production has been ramped up very fast, but
the 6,000 is only our BMW workforce and we are currently running with a reduction a little bit
ahead of our originally planned targets.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. And the first part.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
So maybe, let's start with the -- and maybe add one or the other element to what Oliver just
explained regarding the 6,000 workforce reduction. If you compare the 6,000 to the size of our
Company, I think, that's an ambitious target. We are, as Oliver just said, very well on track to
achieve the number by end of 2021. By the way, it's likely that we have built this in our 0% to 3%
EBIT margin guidance that we will have in provision -- been the provision in the area of mid three-
digit million euros amount in 2020. That's already included in our guidance. And definitely if you
add all different elements of our headcount and personnel cost elements, we are working
extremely well and in a constructive way also with our workers council and this will lead to an mid
three-digit million euro positive impact.And of course, coming to your first topic, we stick to our target of 8% to 10% EBIT margin in what I
would call normal circumstances and this is why we have already set up three years ago our
performance program and with our performance program, we are not just focusing on cost
elements as personnel cost is just mentioned and bringing down the investments in order to
reduce depreciation in the years to come, but we also focus on the top line in areas what we call
our really granular performance management to improve the quality of our business pricing
market-by-market. And as I said at the beginning of my speech, we were well on track at the
beginning of the year, of course, impacted by the Corona crisis, but I'm very, very optimistic that
we will come out strongly.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC, RBC. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC `
Hi. Yes. `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC, RBC. Thanks for taking the question. My first question is, how were you able
to maintain the guidance for 2020 on automotive EBIT margins, given the Q2 results? From the
prepared commentary, it sounds like it's may be coming from better than expected delivery
outlook. Is that right? And then, my second question is, how should we think about working capital
in Q3? A large supplier this morning called for a meaningful decline in production in Q3, but as
we've been noticing July auto sales, especially for you guys in Europe, are looking quite strong,
possibly helped by stimulus. Could we expect working capital to be as a source of cash as a result
in Q3? Thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Tom. Your question will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Tom, let's start with the working capital development in Q3. And of course, your underlying
question is, I assume, how will free cash flow develop as well in Q3 and Q4. So as I said, our clear
aim is to achieve a positive free cash flow for the full year. The third quarter will be slightly better
than the second quarter. Why just slightly, because you rightly said, we have a good momentum
on one hand side in some of the markets and you've likely mentioned some European markets,
Germany, France, Italy are doing in our segment pretty okay. And of course, we have -- as we
have to supply those markets with production and in particular also to supply production to
overseas markets, we will have the balancing effect coming from working capital. And we
forecast, as we speak today, with all the things we have set in our guidance for the full year, with
a stronger fourth quarter. So slightly better third quarter and stronger fourth quarter.
Now, what will be -- coming to your first question, why do we believe that the guidance we
already gave at the beginning of May is still valid despite and as planned a negative Q2 of EUR1.5
billion, a little bit more than EUR1.5 billion, we will see definitely stronger sales. In the second
quarter, Oliver mentioned, the strong demand, good demand in Asian markets, as you rightlymentioned the improvement in European markets, compared still US is a little bit more
challenging, but compared to what we've seen in April and May, also improving, so this will from a
volume and EBIT perspective contribute.
Furthermore, we have a strong product momentum and there luckily in particular despite all the
challenges we might face in the industry, our production is running very, very smoothly, including
Spartanburg. We have some positive effects if you compare year-on-year coming from warranty
and of course, efficiency gains, and from our perspective, if you look -- and I have mentioned it, if
you look at our provisions we've took for residual value OpEx in the automotive segment, as
based from what we know today, we believe we have done what we had to do for the full year.
So we definitely stick to our guidance.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you very much, Patrick. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question is from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS, UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Hi. Good afternoon gentlemen. Patrick from UBS. Few questions please. First one for Nicolas
regarding the relatively high credit and residual value provisions you booked in the second
quarter, which seem to be substantially higher than for the peers. I'm just interested whether you
would consider that a big bat approach so that we shouldn't see any material provisioning
anymore in the quarters ahead? Or have you just been more aggressive in your underlying
assumptions than your competitors triggering these relatively high provisions in the second
quarter?
My second question is a bit bigger picture and I guess, more for Oliver. You've given yourselves
your 2030 CO2 targets and implemented that in your compensation structures and everything. I
mean it seems very much compliance-driven rather than driven by the willingness to sell as many
EVs as possible. And in simple terms, one could say, a strategy that aims at selling as many EVs as
possible and in Tesla's case yeilds a $300 billion market cap. Your power of choice strategy yields
a EUR40 billion market cap. So isn't it actually more feasible right now to say, we're all in on
electric cars and just incentivize the entire management team on selling as many EVs as possible?
And in that regard, do you still firmly stand behind your flexible architecture approach as even
more competitors like PSA seem to grow into the dedicated architecture?
And the very last one very shortly after the AV joint venture or collaboration with Daimler has
been put on hold, can you just update us how you want to tackle the AV topic, because it's a
quite cost intense area and now that you're by yourself, it looks like that's required quite some
spending with limited returns in the next couple of years? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Patrick. So we start with your bigger picture, the power of choice and
CO2 and our collaboration with Daimler, and Oliver. Please, Oliver.A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Patrick, very good questions I think. If you look at the time frame from now until 2030, you
will see different phases. Europe is by far not yet a fully EV market. It's not even 10% of the whole
market as EV, and that is growing now and we are already substantially profiting from that. But
Europe is far away from becoming a 100% EV market until 2030, otherwise the target would be
zero gram CO2 in 2030, if it would be a full EV market. So the question for the next decade is,
how do you conquer the growing EV market and at the same time do not lose the existing
market. That's the task at hand and we are not talking about 2050. Nobody of us knows how the
automotive industry will exactly look took like then.
Our aim is to stay as profitable as possible and grow as much as possible during the next
decade. Therefore, the approach to have a power of choice strategy, I think, is the only one which
is going to work. Despite the fact how you achieve that, whether with flexible architectures or with
dedicated flexible and that is our approach and I think the current market conditions support that.
We have strong growth in the EV markets, plug-in hybrid and EVs. The MINI electric is fully sold
out. Fully sold out independent of range. So the range is for us a completely over rated topic. And
for us, there is I think no other way. Specifically, if you want to have a cost-based approach.
We are convinced that if you are not able to include EV structures into your normal industrial
structure, your cost base will go out of range. So I think we feel fully confirmed in our approach
and we will see together next year when the i4 comes to the market, when the iNEXT comes to
the market, these are outrageously great products. We drive them every day and we are quite
proud of what is happening there. And so we confirm that approach.
In the second half of the Century, so '26-'27-'28 when we have a market share of EVs of 50%
plus, then you go into new, into the next phase, into the next cycle of architecture development.
Of course, then if we develop new cars, the focus on more electric will of course be dominant,
but at least for the next six, seven years, we are exactly on the spot with our strategy.
And coming to your ADAS question, we amicably and very professionally put our plans together. I
think we know what we have at hand. I think we departed amicably and put a pause into it. We did
not terminate it forever, we just said, with our product content, as you know, we will bring our next
-- next year we will bring our iNEXT product, and we will bring the 7 Series product. I think this will
be absolutely competitive products. So the question was how do you bring your development
cycles together? I think in '20 -- end of 2021, 2022, we will be right on spot what the market
demands. You will see. And then, of course, if your partner is not at exactly the same timing, then
it's very difficult to bring that together. This is not competence based, this is simply due to the
fact that our time lines don't fit together and at a later point in time, we could continue of course.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Oliver. Patrick, your first question was about the credit and residual value provisions in
Q2. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Yeah. Patrick, first of all, as you know, we have very structured approach to calculate our
provisions and we use market by market underlying assumptions, macroeconomic factors like
GDP development, unemployment levels and so on. I will be very precise. In the second quarter,
we've added in the auto segment, in the automotive segment a mid-three-digit million euro
amount to our provisions for residual volume risks. And in the financial services area, anotheris focusing, no surprise, on two markets, US and Germany. Why no surprise, because we've seen,
in particular, in the second quarter, a negative development in those markets in April and May.
Having said this, outlook for the second half, I have to say, I feel very comfortable with the level of
provisions we have right now. Of course, we are observing further development, but from what
we know today, I think we are well on track.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Nicolas.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Patrick. So it's 5 minutes to 3:00, I think, we have time for two more questions. Next
question please.
Operator
Your next question is from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Your line is now open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah. Thanks for taking my questions. I had two, please. The first one is, again, coming back on
your guidance of black zero in the free cash flow, I just want to understand under which
circumstances you would reach that? And in that context, the upper end of your EBIT margin
guidance of 0% to 3% in automotive. So basically, I want to understand what is the link between
the EBIT margin and the free cash flow guidance?
Then the second question that I have returns [ph] again to the EBIT bridge and comes back to my
question that I asked also in the Q1 call that was on other cost changes. So you said that the other
cost changes should turn positive in the full year. So we have seen now again a quite substantial
burden in Q2, but I understand also from your comments on the financial services provisions that
we should expect a quite significant turnaround in H2. So maybe you can give some guidance on
other cost changes again as you did in Q1. And the last one would be, in the light of the recent FX
moves that we have seen -- policy -- potential impact of currencies in this year, in 2020? Thank
you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Horst. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Let's start with the third one, FX moves. We stick to our guidance we already gave in March and
at our Q1 call early May, a mid three-digit million euro impact for FX and raw materials. There is no
reason to adjust our guidance so far. If we look again to the your first question, as I said we stick
to our EBIT guidance of 0% to 3% and we are confident today to be in a position to achieve both
a black zero and EBIT guidance of 0% to 3%.
What are the main elements in the free cash flow bridge, on one hand side positive, of course,
the EBT development, slightly negative CapEx and R&D, and some lower provisions for warrantyand variable pay and a slightly negative from working capital, little bit lower payables. So that's in
a nutshell the bridge for the free cash flow assumption.
Other cost changes, your assumption is right, will be positive in the second half of the year. Why?
Residual value costs lower in the second half, this, of course, has an impact. Warranty is positive in
a year-on-year comparison and R&D is slightly positive, as planned slightly higher capitalization of
course.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you. Just quick follow up. So the black zero on free cash flow will be also achieved if you
were at the lower end of the 3% EBIT margin?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
We are confident to achieve both 0% to 3% and a positive free cash flow.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Horst. The next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs, Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Firstly, I just had a quick question on future investments. So this morning, you
mentioned EUR30 billion investments in R&D up to 2025. I think traditionally, you've tended to
guide for out year R&D as a percentage of sales, but is it correct to interpret this comment as,
you are expecting around EUR6 billion per annum over the next five years, or will it be a higher
number in 2021 and 2022, which then fades? And is there a similar number for CapEx?
And then, the second question I had was just with respect to eDrive Zones. I believe you
launched this on certain models at the end of Q1. The questions I had were, is this standard on all
your new plug-in hybrids? Are you able to retrospectively implement it on hybrids sold last year?
And then could you give some insight into what percentage of customers are using this and
whether you see any particular trend amongst the 80 cities which I understand it's available for
to-date? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, George. So we start with the eDrive Zones and Oliver. Yes.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, George. The eDrive Zones is I think a peculiarity of BMW to combine
needs of cities with the competencies of the vehicles. We have more than 80 cities currently who
build on our eDrive Zone ability and this is expanding by every week. And we have a high
customer demand for this functions, but of course only in the cities where the city is offering
these eDrive Zones, because we have to map the eDrive Zones into your navigation app. But Ithink it's a very, very smart move to combine the competencies of our cars driving without any
emissions with the needs of a customer to have a car where he can use it also in everyday use.
And it confirms us in our direction that plug-in hybrids are here to stay for quite a while.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay. Thank you very much. And concerning, George, your question about R&D outlook, Nicolas
please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
George, so it will not be EUR6 billion flat over the next couple of years. We will most likely be
slightly higher in the next two years. Why? Because, as you know, we are heavily investing, in
particular, in topics as the one just discussed with Oliver, e-mobility, launching the iNEXT next year
and further fully electric cars, and it will then go slightly down.
CapEx outlook -- you've seen, we've significantly reduced CapEx in 2020 versus 2019. And we will
continue to have a very strong focus on CapEx, but we are not guiding yet year-by-year what we
will spend in CapEx area. Because of COVID, it depends as well on model launches, investment in
the plant updates and so on.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, George. Now the last and final question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you very much for giving me this question. So Oliver, I guess, this is to you. Investors also
have the power of choice and it goes a bit into Patrick's direction and they are choosing to invest
into electrified and connected business models rather than traditional business model, so even
flexible ones. You are a leader on EVs, your cars are OTA capable. Why don't you consider to give
the market a real choice and actually provide some financial transparency around your i brand, for
example, and really give people the possibility to market that and value it may be separately
because I'm 100% sure that the traditional business which is often just called legacy also has a
certain value, but people want that transparency?
And then also just as an aside on the OTA updates, why do you think it is the case that the
average Tesla fan can't stop talking about the OTA feature on its car and the average BMW
customer doesn't seem to know that it even exists? What exactly can you update over there right
now? Thank you.
A - Unidentified SpeakerThank you very much. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Tim. It's a pleasure to answer your questions.
Q - Unidentified Participant
The right question for the CEO.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Right. And you are not the first one to ask this question by the way. First of all, BMW i-brand is a
BMW brand. It's not a solely standing alone brand and it has ever been, even the i3 was a BMW.
And we continue to have these pillars in our lineup. We have the m-brand, quite successful. We
have the i-brand quite successful and after the i3, the road was what we learned from I must now
be integrated into BMW. Why do we do that? Of course, BMW i is a distinct value, but what would
that mean to BMW to separate that from BMW. I think BMW is a brand, which is always at the
forefront of technologies with a slight disadvantage that a brand with very pinpointed but still very
small, has the advantage of being more distinct to the market, but of course, this spans 2.5
million vehicles per year with the growing tenancy. BMW is a growing brand and of course,
whatever means, i will grow here as well. And there will come a time when we have the majority
of our vehicles will be electrified. So I think from a point of where we come from building 2.5
million vehicles there is no other way to go that route if you still want to grow.
Otherwise it would mean you will create an old world and a new world and the combustion world
is not old, it is quite profitable. It is growing by the way worldwide. It's not shrinking and to add the
combustion world with the electrical world, I think that is a sweet spot for us and I think we are
right on track in delivering. And that will expand of course. We have two electric vehicles today. In
three years we will have 12. So there are great things to come.
The over-the-air updates, we are not -- we don't build rockets. And it's quite difficult to have the
same communications for everyone if you don't build rockets. But of course, we can of course
built cars like everyone else, and over the air, we can update every line of code. So we don't see
a very big difference between us and other competitors.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Can I just follow up on the first element of the question? I'm not asking you to spin this business. I
think that's more of an American thing, that wouldn't really be proud for a company like you with
your ownership situation. I think you can fix the problem of not wanting to do that by just providing
a bit more transparency other than unit sales. You could simply give us something that you make
the i brand into something like almost MINI and then maybe provide some sort of cash flow or
EBIT numbers. Wouldn't that be something that you think is possibility?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Tim, I understand your question, but we don't even do that for Rolls Royce and MINI.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `We don't have to do that. It's a very inclusive business and if we would deem that positive for the
course of our business, we would do that, but I think it's not necessary.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you, Oliver.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Oliver and Tim. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us today.
All the best and greetings from Munich. Bye-bye.