S1 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us despite your occupied schedules. We
really appreciate your participation. We would like to start fiscal year 2021 Second Quarter
Financial Performance Announcement of Toyota Motor Corporation. In order to directly convey to
you the financial results, we have invited some stakeholders who are present here today, and this
is distributed online to the media representatives. First of all, let me introduce the participants
from TMC side for the part one. `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer and Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Operating Officer;
Masayoshi Shirayanagi, the Chief Officer for External Affairs and Corporate Communications.
Without further ado, Mr. Kon is going to share with you the overview of the financial results.
`Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer and Operating Officer `
Hello everyone, thank you for joining us today. I am `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer and Operating Officer. First and foremost, we would like
to convey our deepest sympathy to those who have been suffering from COVID-19 and those
who have been affected by the continued spread of the virus. We also would like to express our
heartfelt appreciation to our customers around the world who chose us, as well as our
stakeholders, shareholders, dealers, and suppliers who support us.
Now, I would like to discuss Toyota's financial results for the first half of the fiscal year ending
March 2021. First, consolidated vehicle sales for the first half ended September 2020 was at
3,086,000 units, which was 66.3% of the consolidated vehicle sales for the first half of the
previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales was at 4,011,000 units, which was
81.0% of such sales for the first half of the previous fiscal year. Although vehicle sales for the first
quarter, when the impact of lockdown measures implemented in many countries was severe,
amounted to 69% of that of the quarter of the previous fiscal year. Vehicle sales for the second
quarter recovered 93.1% of that of the previous year. Once again, we would like to express our
sincere gratitude to our customers around the world who chose us and all of our stakeholders,
including our sales outlets and suppliers, who have made an effort to deliver as many vehicles
that our customers want as possible.
Consolidated financial results for the first half of this fiscal year were, sales revenue of JPY11,375.2
billion, operating income of JPY519.9 billion, pretax income of JPY728.8 billion and net income of
JPY629.3 billion. I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year.second, cost reduction efforts increased operating income by JPY50 billion; third, the effects of
marketing activities decreased operating income by JPY970 billion, largely due to the decrease in
sales volume caused by the spread of COVID-19; finally, a reduction in expenses increased
operating income by JPY115 billion. As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange
rate, swap valuation gains and losses and other factors, operating income decreased by JPY805
billion year-on-year.
As for operating income for each region, although operating income decreased year-on-year in
all regions, largely due to the decrease in sales volumes caused by the spread of COVID-19, we
succeeded in securing operating income in all regions.
Next, let me explain our consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates in China as well as
our financial services business. As for China business, operating income of consolidated
subsidiaries increased by JPY34.2 billion year-on-year to JPY112.4 billion, thanks largely to
marketing efforts. Our share of profit of investment accounted for by equity method was up
JPY15.5 billion year-on-year to JPY79 billion, thanks largely to marketing efforts. Regarding
financial services, operating income excluding swap valuation gains and losses for the fiscal year
was broadly flat year-on-year at JPY211.2 billion.
Next, I would like to explain our return to shareholders. In this interim period, although the
automotive industry as a whole was in a downturn due to the spread of COVID-19, we were able
to record a profit for the first half of this fiscal year with the support of our stakeholders, including
our shareholders. Considering these factors, we plan to make an interim ordinary dividend of
JPY100 per common share. In addition, we would like to thank our shareholders for their
continuous support and have decided to add a special dividend of JPY5 for a total of JPY105 per
common share.
As for share repurchases, we have decided not to repurchase our common stock as a form of
interim shareholder return. Although our profitability remains trying and impact of a continued
spread of COVID-19 continues to be unpredictable, we remain committed to accelerating our
efforts to sow the seeds for the future through investment in growth for transformation and
actions for SDGs.
Now, let us move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year ending March 2021. With regards
to our consolidated vehicle sales, we have increased our forecast from the time of our first
quarter results by 300,000 units to 7.5 million units. Regional sales breakdown is as stated in the
presentation. As for Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales, we anticipate that vehicle sales will
increase by 300,000 units compared to our forecast from the time of our Q1 results to 8.6
million units. Regarding the recovery of Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales, we anticipate that
sales will recover to previous-year levels, mainly approximately 100% in October to December
and approximately 105% in January to March 2021.
Next, let me explain the full-year consolidated financial performance. We've adopted ForEx rate
assumptions for October onwards of JPY105 per dollar and JPY120 per euro, which makes the full
year assumptions JPY106 per dollar and JPY121 per euro. Based on this, our forecast for full year
consolidated financial performances are sales revenue of JPY26 trillion, operating income of
JPY1,300 billion, pre-tax income of JPY1,760 billion and net income of JPY1,420 billion.
Now I would like to explain the factors that will be impact operating income year-on-year
comparing to our forecast at the beginning of the fiscal year. Operating income is now expected
to be JPY1,300 billion, up JPY800 billion from the previous forecast at the beginning of the fiscal
year. The detailed analysis is as stated in the presentation.If we [ph] see slide 15, which compares the latest operating income forecast for this fiscal year
with the result of the previous fiscal year. Although we were able to report a profit, the first half of
this financial year has just completed and the environment surrounding us remains highly
uncertain considering the risk of a second and a third wave of COVID-19. In the second half of this
financial year, while continuously making efforts together with all our stakeholders, including cost
reduction efforts at all levels and efforts at manufacturing sites and sales outlets, we remain
committed to continuing to steadily sow seeds for the future and accelerating our transformation
into a mobility company.
This concludes my presentation. Thank you for your attention.
Questions And Answers
Operator
We would like to start the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) And we would like to have as
many people as possible ask questions here. We would like to ask you to limit to one question
per person. Now Mr. Katori [ph] of Yomiuri newspaper, please. I will switch the screen. So if you
find yourself on the screen, please start asking your question, please. We are now switching the
screen, so please give us a little time. Now, Mr. Katori, please, could you start your question,
please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Katori of Yomiuri newspaper. Thank you for the opportunity. First of all, with respect to the
financial results you have just announced, I would like to ask your appraisal and assessment,
especially you have made an upward revision. So what is the most important factor that
contributed to that? What is your view on that? And at the same time, some European countries
have locked down the countries and the COVID-19 is spreading once again in the United States.
So toward the second half, what is your assessment of the likely risk in the second half? That's my
first question.
And second question relates to the production. When you had this announcement in May, you
already had impact on your production plans and you also talked about that because demand
was affected. However, as we look back, the recovery since then seems to be going on quite
smoothly. So for the past half-year, how have you been able to coordinate your supply chain? If
you have been able to do that successfully, what were the keys for that? Those are my two
questions.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your question. First of all, with respect to my assessment and appraisal of the
financial results, first of all, the financial results between April and September, it covers six-month
period. The first three months period and the second three months period, so dividing into these
two three-months period, the first quarter and second quarter show different situations. I wish I
could show you the PowerPoint slide showing the quarterly financial results. Would you show the
quarterly financial results on the screen, please?
Thank you. In the first half, the operating income JPY506 billion, what you see on the screen, it
relates to three months period in the second half. The operating income was JPY506 billion. So if
we divide this as April-September period, the latter half, that is July-September period,
compared with the first three months shows a significant recovery. And the marginal decrease in
operating income compared to the first three months period has shrunk significantly. And on thequarterly basis, the operating income of JPY500 billion was generated, which owes a great deal
to the efforts made by individuals. And that achieved the recovery that we are now seeing in the
figure of operating income. And the fact that we've been able to achieve the recovery to this
extent was also mentioned when the financial results were announced previously, We showed the
projection of 8 million units and 500 billion, but we are not quite sure because the things were so
uncertain. Despite that and although this is just the half year place where the first half was
completed, but the fact that we were able to generate positive profit owes a great deal to every
effort made by dealers and suppliers to deliver as many vehicles as possible and it really owes
the hard work of those people. And that allowed us to keep our plants running, and by us
keeping the plants running also allowed many related industries and suppliers to keep on their
operations, and therefore the entire automotive industry has been supporting this recovery, and I
really felt that in the real field. So that's what I felt in the first half-year period. And as I said, this
shows only the results of the first half or half-year period. But as I look back in specific cases, since
the global financial crisis, for the past 11 years, we consistently engaged ourselves in various
initiatives and activities and those efforts created a foundation for what we see today. I strongly
feel about that.
For example, the financial institutions really supported us and cooperated with us. We were able
to take on loans from the financial institutions and we were able to secure solidly the financial
resources we need. At the time of the global financial crisis, we had JPY3 trillion. But today with
the support of financial institutions, it has been raised to JPY9 trillion or JPY10 trillion. And in
conducting activities and business during this fiscal year, those support meant a great deal to us.
At the beginning of the fiscal year, we really did not know what could happen in charge of
financial and accounting activities of the company. I wasn't quite sure how the things will evolve.
But the top executives, especially, our President Toyoda as a top executive remained very calm
and very stable and that allowed us to make decision whenever that need to be made on the
spot. So that helps us a great deal and I appreciate that a great deal.
With respect to the second half, as Mr. Katari mentioned in his question, we see lockdown in
place and the COVID-19 virus is spreading and we will continue to remain vigilant on those
evolutions and developments. And as I said, we only have actual results for the half-year period.
It's not that we have a clear view of the next half year. So I will continue to watch very carefully the
impact of COVID-19.
In terms of the status of production, right now at this moment, for example, in North America or
Europe, the production in April was almost zero. However at this point, right now, we have seen
significant recovery, for example, in North America, in September, the actual result was compared
with previous year, 108% of the previous year's level. And in Europe, it's 102% of the previous
year's level. And in Japan, the recovery has been made to the extent of the production reaching
104% of the previous year's level. So in the sense, the suppliers and supporters are working very
hard. They have been kept extremely busy, they have huge workload because of the strong
recovery. So while preventing the risk of COVID-19 spreading, working closely together with the
suppliers, we would like to keep this production momentum. That's my response. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Katori. We'd like to go on to the next question from Asahi Newspapers,
Cheeba-san [ph] please. We will be switching the screen. When you see yourself on the screen,
please start with your question. Mr. Cheeba, please?
Q - Unidentified ParticipantA - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. We hear you fine. Question please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. Well, I might be asking you on the details, but for the factors that increased operating
income, for asterisk number two, the Others area within the sales and marketing, there is quite a
large -- more than JPY100 billion -- JPY110 billion and asterisk number three, for the increase or
decrease and expense and expense reduction efforts. This is also plus JPY115 billion -- JPY130
billion, quite a big number. And also asterisk number four, valuation gains and losses from swaps,
et cetera, it's JPY45.8 billion. So I think there are some accumulated from the April to June
period. But can you tell me the breakdown of these? And in addition to that, for July to
September term, is there any characteristic special factors for the second quarter on the positive
side and the negative side? What kind of special factors were there in the second quarter?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your question. So for the contents, starting with -- on the effects of marketing
activities, so for the increase -- decrease -- increase, Others JPY110 billion, the breakdown, there
is mainly two factors here. And the first will be for the sales expenses, this has reduced. And
particularly in North America, the incentives has gone down. In order to -- since we have been
effectively utilizing our marketing expenses, so therefore incentives per unit has gone down. And
also there was a dropping [ph] of the total incentives, because of the drops in the total volume.
So this has had an effect on the positive side. And now for the other negative side, this is a global
factor, but for the supply parts, the income from supply parts had reduced somewhat. And these
two factors in a net has an effect of JPY110 billion.
And the second for expenses, it is -- among JPY130 billion, a large part of it will be the general
expenses. So like business expenses and also entertainment fees, meeting expenses, event
expenses; in our case, for example, consumables for the office works -- office supplies. So,
including those factors this term, this quarter we have been able to reduce significantly. And for
the business expenses -- business travel expenses, of course, it is difficult to move out -- travel
freely. But just looking at the non-consolidated TMC, there is about several billions of reduction in
the business travel expenses.
And going into the details for the consumables, for the office supplies, compared to last year we
have been using only about half of supplies, and also the research and investigations are in --
compared to the peak, it's about one-third compared to the peak. So for example, we are doing
research in-house with our in-house resources. So those are some efforts that we have been
making to reduce the expenses. That has significant impact included in this JPY130 billion effect.
And the final part for these swap valuation gains and losses, thi is accumulation of various factors.
So the ForEx swap expenses and also for the securities, and many of the details have been
accumulated in this numbers of gains-losses from swaps, et cetera.
Q - Unidentified Participant
And, also my question was about the three month special factors for the three months from July
to September.
A - Unidentified SpeakerSorry for that. I forgot, excuse me, and especially for -- looking at July-September items, if there
was a special factor, actually, there was not, there was no special factors. So looking at the
operating income from July to September, no temporary or one-time income or loss. There was
no significant item here.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Cheeba. Let us move on to the next question from Daily Industrial Newspaper, Mr.
Nagatsuka, please. I will switch the screen. So if you find yourself in the scree, please start your
question. We are now switching the screen. So please give us a little while. Mr. Nagatsuka, please
ask your question. Mr. Nagatsuka, please turn on the microphone. Your microphone is still off, still
muted.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Can you hear me?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, we can hear you, Mr. Nagatsuka.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Nagatsuka of Daily Industrial Newspaper. Thank you for the opportunity for asking this question. In
terms of CapEx for the current fiscal year, on the full-year projection, it is JPY1,400 billion.
Compared with the outlook shown at the beginning of the fiscal year, there is addition of JPY50
billion. Could you explain the reason for that addition or increase for CapEx?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. In terms of outlook for CapEx, it has been increased from JPY1,350 billion to JPY1,400
billion, what's the reason for this JPY50 billion increase? There is no major factor behind that. The
yen was lower than we had anticipated at the beginning and therefore there was the difference
caused by the translation difference, and also in different projects, there has been some increase
in project expenses in certain regions, and in other areas, there has been some decrease in
those projected investments. But there has not been any major change that resulted in those
fluctuations. It's just the accumulation of the small factors and this is the most up to date figure
that we have announced today.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.
Operator
Mr. Nagatsuka, thank you for your question. Now, let us move on to the next question. From
Chunichi Newspapers, Mr. Osada, please. We will be switching the screen. When you see yourself
on the screen, please start your question. We are now switching the screen. Mr. Osada, please.
Q - Unidentified ParticipantThis is Osada speaking from Chunichi Newspapers. Thank you for this opportunity. It's a detailed
question. For the last six months accumulated results in the interim results, number three, labor
costs, excuse me, not labor costs -- for the effort made to reduce the expenses. So for the R&D,
there was a plus JPY20 billion. So specifically, what are you talking about here?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your question. Here also it's not a significant item that's included in here, but for
the R&D expenses, especially right now we're focusing on the case areas. So we are now shifting
the conventional R&D activities to the case areas. For about 40%, it will be in the so-called
advanced technology, research areas. So the expenses -- R&D expenses will be in this advanced
R&D field, and especially for prototype expenses, those items have been continued to make
improvements and effect on net, there will be annual basis a JPY20 billion effect. That is, I think,
how this number should be understood. So that is all from my side [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Osada. Allow me to move onto the next question, please. (Multiple speakers)
question please. We will switch over the screen. So when you find yourself in the screen, please
start your question. Mr. Noguchi [ph], could you start your question please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. Noguchi of NHK. Can you hear me?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. We hear you well.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you for this opportunity. Relating to the outlook of the future period, as was referred to in
the earlier question, to a certain extent going forward, the uncertainties remain very high. The
U.S. presidential election has not yet been called. Depending upon the outcome of that election,
the environmental regulations and auto bills, or policies likely to be implemented in environmental
areas might come out differently. So what is your assessment, what is your take on that at this
moment? And in relation to the outlook of the second half, what are expected likely impact on
your second half results?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. With respect to the second half of our year, as far as the outcome of our -- with
respect to the second half of our year, as far as the outcome of our presidential elections is
concerned, the final results are not yet called yet. But no matter what the outcome may be in the
United States, we have been operating our business for many, many years for a long period of
time. We employ many employees including the dealers and suppliers and also the local
community in which we are allowed to operate. We are working with them very closely in the
united states. And through those, we want to be a better corporate citizen and we remain
committed to being that. That stance will not change. By enhancing our competitiveness, by
becoming even more competitive, we will continue to work harder to become a bigger corporatecitizen. In terms of the outlook for the second half, we are not expecting any substantial impact
stemming from how the presidential election turns out to be.
Operator
Mr. Noguchi, thank you for your question. Now going on to the next question. (inaudible) We will
be switching the screen. When you see yourself on the screen, please start with your question.
We're switching the screen, a moment please. Kigawa-san your camera is off. Thank you. Now we
see you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
This is Kigawa speaking. Thank you. Do you hear me?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes we hear you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. I wanted to ask a question about the US -- regarding the US. So you talk about the
sales incentives and you said that there is positive impact from the reduction of incentives in
operating income level compared with the previous quarter. It is -- we see a positive impact on
the operating income. And for the inventory level for US, Autoleader [ph] shows that is about 40
days. So in the past it was around 60 days, I think compared to that it is quite reduced, and
incentives, it's probably -- the level is about the same year-on-year. So it's flat. So I think you can
say that you have a healthy condition in selling the vehicles. And Toyota shares, it seems that it is
increasing, therefore, that probably we can say that it's not just in the recovery period, but you're
having a good performance. So why do you think that in the US you are having a good
performance and also for the outlook for your inventory level, maybe the dealer side is not
having enough inventory. So on a timeline, when do you believe that table will turn to the regular
level? From suppliers we hear that you have quite a tight inventory. And so what will be the
outlook or how do you see the second half?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your question. For North America, yes, here we can see the per region situation for
the segment between July to September. The results are here. It's on Page 19, probably in the
back of the package. And for North America, just looking at the second quarter, we have been
increasing the profit, operating income. And with breakdown here of course the automobile
business is contributing plus the financial business. And so one by one, to answer your questions
for inventories, yes, it is still in quite a tight situation. So according to the model, the situation will
differ but mainly the light pickups and also live SUVs will be those that does not have enough in
inventory. So, when we ask the members in North America they say that the -- based on the
inventory level for the incentives, they will be different according to the outlet of the dealer and
different according to the region we're talking about in the United States. So the incentives have
been adjusted accordingly and tried to work in detail as possible and we believe that will be most
effective in dealing with the situation. And therefore, the reason why we are having a good
performance here is, right now we are putting a lot of efforts in trying to increase inventory levels.
But when you think -- look at the new products, the new models, it's -- we have been able to
continuously supply the new models into the channel. So several years ago the SUVs, we were
said, they were quite behind and late and introducing SUV models but now SUVs are being
introduced for US market and it's being taken quite well. That's what we believe the reason is.And for the inventory level, there is a lot of effort put by receiving the cooperation from suppliers
to continue production and try to come to the level that we think is appropriate. So by the
beginning of the term, we think that we will be able to recover to the appropriate level.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Just one additional question. So incentives from other side comes, do you think that, even
without so much incentives, cars will self? Is my understanding correct? We don't have to make
too much effort in forcefully pushing up the incentives?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, looking at the current situation, I think it's just a result of that. As a result, we can say that we
do not need so much incentives. Thank you very much Kigawa-san.
Operator
Let's move on to the next question. We will switch the screen. So if you find yourself on the
screen, please start your question. We are switching the screen, so please give us a little more
time. Mr. Yuwasaki [ph], could you please start your question?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yuwasaki of Chubu Economic Journal. Can you hear me?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes we can. Thank you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
In terms of suppliers located in central Japan, the Chubu area, and not limited to Chubu area, but
throughout Japan, in from suppliers, as the production recovers, in terms of supply chain, do you
have any concerns or in terms of cash management for suppliers, am I right in understanding that
they have subsided and there is no further concern, as we see a rather sharp recovery. What sort
of attention should be paid to suppliers going forward? How are you going to work together with
suppliers or cooperate with the suppliers? That's the first question. The second question relates
to the effect of the cost reduction? In the first half, you achieved JPY50 billion. The benefits of
that. That may reflect the impact of the production reduction, and especially in the first, you have
foregone the price change of the parts and components so that may be a factor, but moving
forward in the second half in terms of our cost reduction efforts, how are you going to achieve
higher cost reduction working together with the suppliers? What sort of specific activities are you
going to engage yourselves in?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. In terms of concerns or concern about cash management or financial availability, do
we have none? We need to remain very vigilant in terms of the development from that front. With
the suppliers, we are working very close together and our procurement department, for each
supplier that we are working with are hearing out their issues and their conditions. So that's how
we are doing, and this year our procurement department are having very close communication
with the suppliers more often than in the past and more closely than in the past, and by doing so,
such information can be obtained from suppliers so that we can take necessary responses as
needed. In terms of cost improvement efforts, we announced JPY50 billion in the first half. In thefirst half, usually, we talk about JPY300 billion of cost reduction benefits, that's for the full year.
And in terms of the first half, usually it should be around JPY150 billion. But that's a normal
situation. So the normal situation generates JPY150 billion, whereas we actually achieved JPY50
billion. But this JPY50 billion includes JPY20 billion in materials price. On the cost basis, we did
have the benefit of reducing cost or saving cost by JPY70 billion.
During this period, the volume, especially in the first part of the first half, between April, May and
June, the production volume was very small and partly due to that, the efforts were made to
improve productivity to save cost and our support plans have been accumulating those cost
reduction efforts. But because of this smaller volume, the benefits of that was less visible. In the
second half, in terms of the full-year outlook, we are expecting slightly below JPY200 billion.
That's our high level in terms of our target. So in the second half, we would like to accumulate
more and more in terms of costs saved. Thank you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you for your response.
Operator
Thank you Mr. Yuwasaki. There is still more questions. But the scheduled time is coming closer. So
we will just take one last question. From Asahi Newspapers, Kamisawa, please. We will be
switching the screen. When you see yourself on the screen, please start with your question. Mr.
Kamisawa, please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
I am from Asahi Newspapers. My name is Kamisawa. So there was earlier another question. But
for the reason why you have good performance in the United States is also my question. In the
United States they're having a large impact from COVID, number of infections is also increasing.
So in this environment why is it that Toyota is able to have a good performance and also for your
outlook going forward, probably it's difficult to forecast. However, even with this widespread of
COVID, you're able to maintain this level of sales. So does it mean that because it's not in a panic,
you're able to have a forecast thinking from a stable perspective? So can you tell me a little bit
more about your forecast going forward?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your question. Well, thanks to everyone's support and cooperation, for the reason
why we are able to continue our sales is what I have explained previously. So it is -- one, is
because we are able to supply the products and also the dealers, the outlets are looking very in
detail to adjust the incentives and those efforts are bringing out the results. As you have said, as
Kamisawa-san has said, the infection risk is heightening, and so absentee rate is actually
increasing slightly. That is our understanding. Therefore it's difficult to have a steady view for the
next term, the next half. It's not still in that kind of a situation. We will be watching every month,
and monthly we will be making efforts to build up our volume. And that effort and that attitude will
not change. That will not change for a while. So that is my understanding. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Kamisawa. So with this, we would like to end our first part of the second quarter
financial results press conference. Thank you very much for your attendance. After this, we will
take a 10-minute break and from 1:40, we will begin with part two. Thank you. Ladies andgentlemen, I would like to start the Q2 Financial Results Announcement for Fiscal Year 2021. This
is part two of the announcement. First of all, let me introduce to you the participants from TMC.
Representative Director and President, `Akio Toyoda, President, Representative Director; Bunto [ph] `Koji Kobayashi, Board Member, Chief Competitive Officer, Board member,
Chief Competitive Officer; and Chief Project Officer, `Shigeki Terashi, Chief Project Officer. Now, our President, Toyoda
will make his presentation.
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Representative Director `
My name is Toyoda. Today, based on our first half results, I would like to share with you my
thoughts as the person responsible for the management of Toyota. We thought that a forecast
by Toyota would serve as a kind of signpost for those in the automotive industry, especially in
these times of much uncertainty regarding the future, due to the COVID-19 crisis. So, at our year-
end results announcement in May, this year we issued a full-year forecast for 8 million units in
worldwide new vehicle sales and JPY500 billion in operating income. Presenting a guideline
enabled abnormality management, making it possible for each workplace to flexibly respond to
changes in the environment. I believe that the upward revision to our forecast this time are due to
-- not only to our initiatives of the six months, but also to our initiatives over the past 11 years,
making Toyota stronger as a company step by step. The increased strength of our financials and
profit structure has also contributed. But I think that the number one factor has been that the
people working for Toyota have grown stronger.
At our manufacturing plants, we voluntarily produced face masks and medical face shields
needed by the society. On plant, non-operation days, all members engaged in Kaizen, continuous
improvement, and greatly improved productivity. On the sales front, online sales and other
initiatives allowed us to continue building relationships with our customers. Every single vehicle
ordered by our customers keeps our plants and the economy going. To be able to keep on
producing one vehicle at a time, I believe that our members in both production and sales
desperately and fully develop themselves to the -- devoted themselves to their work, but, and
that led to a rapid sales recovery.
Total sales recovery at the time of the global financial crisis lagged behind the market by 4%, but
in the case of COVID-19 crisis, our sales recovery outpaced the market by more than 3%. I
believe this is the result of our ever-better cars being made by everyone, and the effort to
deliver them to our customers. Thus plants suspended by COVID-19 got back into action. I
believe that the sight of plants operating and people working energized their local communities.
Let's make auto builds a driving force of the economy. I only indicated a direction. I believe all else
was thanks to the power of the workplace, which continue to move in that direction. Moving in
that direction was not limited to Toyota, as such actions spread to five auto build trade
organizations in Japan, including the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association. The ripple
effect is extremely strong in the automobile industry. The industry in Japan employs 5.5 million
people in Japan, auto build businesses generate approximately JPY15 trillion in annual taxes and
economic ripple effect is 2.5 times greater than the output of the automotive industry alone.
Although we are only halfway through our fiscal year, I think the fast recovery of the automotive
industry is already having a positive impact on Japan's economy. The numbers we announced
today are the result of the hard work of many people. They are in no ways simply an outcome
that came about by itself. I would like to once again express my appreciation to all those
concerned. Thank you so very much.
Drive society forward with automobiles. This commitment is not something that we realized
during the COVID-19 crisis. It is exactly the commitment of Kiichiro Toyoda when he foundedcalled case revolution, the automobile industry is in a once in a century period of profound
transformation. These are times in which the future is unclear and there are no right answers. To
where are we headed, to answer that question, I realize that we needed to know from where we
came.
Please have a look at this conical shape. This graph was put together more than 60 years ago by
our then top management, after the passing of Kiichiro to guide them as they carried for the
baton passed down to them. I believe that to help Toyota move even further forward in a united
way, top management had the time thought about what Toyota was and believed that the origin
of Toyota should not be forgotten. Toyota, born in Japan, has expanded its presence around the
world. Now we find that we are living in an era of profound transformation. For our 370,000
people worldwide and their families, as well as for the next generation that would support the
Toyota of the future. In our Toyota's philosophy, we have defined our mission as producing
happiness for all.
Even though Sakichi Toyoda made a move and Kiichiro made an automobile, I think that what they
truly wanted to make was a sense of happiness for any customer who used their products, as
well as happiness for all the people involved in work related to those products. We realized that
even if we change what we make, our pursuit of happiness will never change. And our vision, as
defined in our Toyota philosophy, is creating mobility for all. After all, we are in the car business.
Therefore, I would like to continue to be discerning when it comes to mobility. And we use the
word mobility with an added meaning. That meaning is each person should take action. What is
required of us now is that each Toyota person takes actions that lead to the happiness of
humankind, including concerning the global environment.
I believe that the Toyota philosophy, which is a continuation of Toyota precepts is the very spirit of
the sustainable development goals and I believe that management based on this philosophy will
lead to sustainable efforts toward achieving these goals, along with the aim of international
society to make a better world. Even now during the COVID-19 crisis, many people around the
world are doing their best to survive while enduring hardship. If Toyota's mission being producing
happiness for all, we want to work especially in these times of emergency for someone other
than ourselves as well as for society and the future. Going forward, we will be tested whether or
not we can truly mass produce happiness. We will be grateful if we could receive strict yet warm
guidance and support from all of our stakeholders, including you who are here with us today.
Thank you very much.
Operator
Now, I would like to start the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) From Daily Automotive Journal,
Mr. Fukuwi [ph] please. I will switch the screen. So if you find yourself on the screen, please start
your question. We are switching the screen right now. Mr. Fukuwi, could you start your question
please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
From Daily Automotive Journal, my name is Fukuwi. My question is addressed Mr. Toyoda,
President. Once again, what is your appraisal and assessment of the first half financial results?
And you have increased your forecast upward, what is your outlook for the second half? Since
you became a President, I think this is the first time that you are speaking at the announcement of
interim financial results, what is the reason for you taking forward at this juncture?
A - Unidentified SpeakerLet me respond you question, thank you for the question. At the initial stage, we announced
JPY50 billion for the full -- JPY500 billion for the full year basis, that was the projection and we
achieved that in the half-year period rather than in the full year basis, that's not an easy task. As I
mentioned in my own presentation, it is quite true that this past six months was the period of
hard work for those people at (inaudible), is very important, but above anything else since I
became President of the company, we encountered many challenges; great financial -- result
crisis, the greatest Japan earthquake and extreme appreciation of the yen and having gone
through those challenges we added to our efforts and we piled our effort after effort and that
accumulated to produce the results that we see today.
This is the first time that I attend this financial results announcement at the half year period and as
far as TMC is concerned, it is quite rare for the executive to be at the interim result
announcement, but the reason why I am taking the floor now is because we are in the time of
emergency caused by COVID-19 crisis. I have decided to be here. At the time of the emergency, I
think it is very important to contribute to our own business and work, but all of us working we can
protect employment, make a general profit and we can pay tax, that I think is the responsibility
and role of the key industry which is a bedrock of the nation. And automotive industry, I believe,
has a huge spillover effect, the ripple effect is huge. And for us to continue doing business,
continue working can energize the related industries, that's my view as well.
And furthermore, at the initial stage for the full year basis to make a projection for the full year
basis I had the following feeling that is to say by giving some baseline reference point for others,
like dealers and suppliers and employees, energized to respond to those guidelines, as I thought
is there any better way, is there any other way that we can energize people, is there anything
more that we can do, they took very positive initiatives in doing so and I just wanted express my
gratitude on this occasion of financial impact announcement. And at the same time, many people
are fighting this COVID-19 crisis and during sufferings yet they are trying to do their best going
through this and survive that, I am aware of that although this is a half way point, but by us
working together, covering the third quarter and fourth quarter by continuing to work and
continuing our hard work, I just wanted to convey my strong determination doing that on this
occasion. That's all. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you Mr. Fukuwi. We'd like to go on to the next question. From Automotive News, Mr. Hans
please. We will be switching the screen. When you see yourself on the screen, please start with
your question. We are now switching the screen, a moment, please. Mr. Hans, please.
Q - `Hans Greimel, Analyst, Automotive News
Hello, Hans Geimel here, from Automotive News. May I speak in English today?
A - Unidentified Speaker
I answer in Japanese.
Q - `Hans Greimel, Analyst, Automotive News
Thank you. I'll keep my comments short. I just want to ask if you have an update on the Woven
City project. Can you tell us when it was -- when construction will start, when it will finish, when it
will open, when people will start moving there, how many partners you have? And maybe a
second question would be, can you tell us your plans for the Olympics next year? Your
technological showcase, how are you going to have to change that for the Olympics next year?A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. I'd like to respond in Japanese. Probably you have the simultaneous
interpretation. So I would be continuing to speak on in Japanese. So if you can't understand, you
can just raise your hand and let me know that you don't understand. For the project -- Woven City
project, it is steadily progressing and the way that we are promoting this, so we use a 80-sprint
method. So myself, the top executive and the person in charge, every three weeks, we hold a
meeting to confirm the direction of the project. This rule that we introduced to have this meeting
three -- once every three weeks, every time in this meeting, I will make the decision that we
believe is the best at that time. So, maybe it will be that decision would be different to what we
have decided three weeks ago, but the important thing is that every time we have this meeting,
we will make the most appropriate decision that meets the environmental situation. So this is a
rule that we have a adopted to promote this project. Most important, is the candidate area that
we will be using. This place is Toyota Motor Corporation's East Japan Higashi Fuji Plant, and this
plant in after one month, it will be closing its operation. That is the plan. And therefore the
employees that are working in the plant will be transferring to different locations, to the Tohoku
Plant. And unfortunately, there may be employees because of family reasons or other reasons,
they may not be able to move to a foreign place. Therefore we will be cooperating and
supporting, so that they can a new job and any needs that they have. And in the meantime, we
have been working with the cooperation of the community, and also with the suppliers nearby.
We are trying to stand by each and every individuals working in Higashi Fuji Plant to try to secure a
place to work for them after the closure of the plant. At we think that steadily we will be secure
those job opportunities for them. And this location -- for this location the Higashi Fuji Plant, we will
start the construction work (multiple speakers). And from the public affairs division I was told that I
should not say anything about any date. But I like to say that I want to make the announced on
February 23. The reason why February 23 is because it's 2,2,3, when you read it in a Japanese
way, it's (multiple speakers), you can say it's Mount Fuji. So in this data, you can call there to be
Mount Fuji Day, we can make ceremony to do the groundbreaking -- if we can do a
groundbreaking ceremony at the foot of Mount Fuji that will be very symbolic. I'd like to say to
everyone that we are making preparation, so that it may happen that way.
So now what would be happening in this location? Well, for us we have made a declaration that
we are going to change ourselves from automobile company to a mobility company. So in this
plan, we are going to utilize this location to develop products that can create profit for us in the
future, value for us in the future, and one, so we will be doing a demonstration test and it is going
to be used for that. One thing that we'll do using this (multiple speakers) lab will be the
automobile driving vehicles. Automobile driving vehicles, it is important that you think together
with the infrastructure is a package. And by having this infrastructure together, the development
speed will be accelerating significantly, and with that belief, we have created one basic unit to
create this Woven City. I think that's a big news for Woven City project. The basic unit that I am
talking about is that each -- there would be a 150 meters square unit inside of the location and
then that will be consisting three rows, there will be three rows woven in this location. One type
of this road will be a dedicated road for automated driving -- autonomous driving vehicles and
the other road will be dedicated for pedestrians and then the other third road will be a
combination of a small mobility plus the pedestrians. So in this way, we want to look at how we
can secure safety for autonomous driving vehicles.
I think it will be easier to understand if we have this kind of roads. However in the up-ground I
think the weather conditions it will be different according to a sunny day, rainy day, hot day, cold
day, the road conditions will differ. And in this kinds of different -- so we will have this difference
above ground, but under ground, we can have the environment that will not change with weather.So we can utilize that place for vehicles that can -- don't have to think about weather. And up
ground we will think about weather conditions plus moving people and things. So, while the
(multiple speakers) I am not an engineer, but probably will be the most easiest level to achieve
autonomous driving, with these different dedicated roads.
And for the city that is consisted by these three different types of roads, and we are thinking of
having 360 residents living in this area. And for that, what kind of people these 360 members
are, to explain a little bit, one group will be elderly and the second will be people with families,
the family group and the third group of people will be inventors. So, in a sense, in Japan, and this
Woven City, I want to displace -- that would be creating is a place that we will be able to
understand the needs and the challenges that the elderlies and the families are facing in living
environment in Japan. And also in this location, we want to have inventors living together with
those who have challenges in the everyday lives, so that these inventors will be able to invent
things that will be helpful for the challenges that the elderly and the family has. And that can be
invented in a timely manner. And these inventors will apply a certain rule. So they will have a
certain period of time that they can work in the city. If they cannot up with results in that certain
period of time, then we will exchange (multiple speakers) change with other inventors. So we are
trying to have a rule or a mechanism, so that this place will always be a vigorant [ph], will be quite
active.
And currently, individuals and also including corporations -- corporate organizations, there is about
300,000 people and corporate organizations who have applied -- wanted to become a partner
with us in this Woven City. So in that sense, I think I for this vigorant project, it is going to be a
living laboratory. As a demonstration -- we will be doing demonstration with living labs. So it's an
ever evolving city that will never be completed. And our ultimate goal is to develop a state
mobility. And also we want to have it human-centric. So creating this kind of city, a town and
together with infrastructure we want to create the future of mobility. And in order to do that we
can't just work with us alone, in just automobile companies, we want to have many partners to
work with us and together with those partners we want to develop that kind of a city. So it will be
ever-evolving, and it will be a living laboratory.
So I hope that will be understood. And also I like to ask you also to participate in a certain way. We
want to create the future together with you as well. So I hope that you'll -- we can have high
expectations and look forward to this project. I (multiple speakers) was long in explanation, but
that's all from my response. So Mr. Hans, thank you very much.
Operator
Now let's move to the next question. Mr. Shimizu [ph] of Nippon Life. Please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Shimizu of Nippon Life. As an institutional investor
owning Toyota shares for a long period of time, I would like to ask the following question of Mr.
Toyoda, the President. And including my explanation, I might take a little time. Starting with the
strong performance of the second quarter, exceeding the market expectations and also the
upward revision of the outlook and projection for the full-year basis, and I think this is due to the
hard work by Mr. Toyoda and the top management, as well as employees and others involved in
those hard work. I like to express my serious respect to that. I have been paying close attention
to the words and phrases by President Toyoda. For example, in the past, you talked about
intentional pause to increase competitiveness for making things is making people. And also I want
to ensure that I will be the last person to spend time dealing with the consequences of the pastdetermination. I think the very simple and succinct phrases clearly reflected the direction of
Toyota moving forward and the determination of President Toyoda. But I think above and beyond
that, is the role that Mr. Toyoda plays as a President to ensure sustainable development. Of
course, that's naturally expected, but going beyond that, Mr, Toyoda seems to be taking on
voluntarily even greater responsibility at the country and global level. For example, he set as an
objective of perceiving 3 million vehicle production in the domestic production and that's a
reflection of determination to protect monozukuri in Japan, employment, technology and human
resources. And at the same time, he is now trying -- implementing initiatives to achieve full
redesign of Toyota to make it an operative company and that goes beyond the reform and
change of Toyota as an individual company, but rather it reflects the determination of trying to
realize the future of a mobility society that no one has ever envisioned yet with Toyota playing a
central role. And to realize that, I think it is essential and dispensable to create the corporate
alliances, partnering with other companies.
So here, I'd like to ask the following question. Not limiting yourself to Toyota's and company, but
still with Toyota playing a central role, you're at the leading edge of trying to create the society of
the future and to produce happiness for all. I think you are at the cutting edge of that, but I
wonder what drives you Mr. Toyoda, to make those efforts so passionately, aiming at those
activities and responsibility that goes beyond one of individual company?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Representative Director `
Thank you for your question. Especially focusing amongst media people, I don't receive very
positive assessment or evaluation often, I am not used to that, but I feel a bit embarrassed by
receiving such a positive and favorable assessment. As Mr. Shimizu just mentioned and reflecting
in the question, I just wonder to myself what really is driving myself. And probably, I could say that
for one thing the frustration and bitterness that I felt. Since I became President and took helm of
the company, what I have always was said that, you can never pull it off, you can never achieve
this. You have never experienced any hardships and you don't know what's going on (multiple
speakers), you have never been there, so you can't do this, you can't do this job, let's see what
you have got. And many people were simply waiting for me to fail with mistakes. And as
expected I told you so, this is what we expected that's all the people have been expecting. And
faced with that, to this point I have been able to somehow muddle through because we
encountered many, many challenges and crisis. To meet the crisis, the word crisis, the characters
in a sense the critical situation, also reflects opportunity, that is to say predicament on the one
hand and opportunity on the other hand. That word consists of these two words. So I have
experienced those (multiple speakers) crisis and that every time I try to turn that crisis or
predicament into opportunity, and by doing so I try to respond to those people who said you can
never pull it off or you can never achieve that. I wanted to demonstrate that I can do it, I did do
this job. So I never wanted to be dusted and that drove me to work harder and harder. In relation
to that, and I see this in many different opportunities as a member of the founding family I just
wanted to make thinks right for the founders. I have been operating over the history of over 80
years and including myself and those people in the management who have been supporting me
are now sustaining Toyota.
But looking back, the founding members never experience the benefits of what they have
accomplished and the success of their endeavors. I have advocated transforming Toyota from a
automotive company to the mobility company and having in mind the determination of the
founding members to change itself from the automatic road [ph] company into the automotive
company and that really reflect (multiple speakers) hardships they have had to go through and
what sort of challengers they had to go through. By completely transforming themselves, vis-a-viscomply completely. For us to be able to do that, not just Toyota, (multiple speakers), but to make
sure that Toyota to be the company that is chosen by the people in the future society, and for
Toyota to become such a company that I think has been that prime mover that really drove me
over the years. And If I may (multiple speakers) the following, I can refer to love Japan -- my love
for Japan. Toyota is a global company today and we always wanted to be the best in town
company and in any country or region in which we are allowed to operate, we have been trying to
be a company chosen by the community. But the fact that we've been able to do is that owes to
what our founders started that is to establish the first automotive company in Japan. And we all
ask today to them, so to that Japan we want to continue with our business, with our automotive
industry. And then I think has been a very important driving force behind me. At the initial stage, it
is quite true that I felt very lonesome, I felt being alone, even if I (multiple speakers) nobody was
dancing behind me. That's where I found myself, but today, I wouldn't say everybody, or all of us,
but there are so many people who are dancing to my tunes and increasingly more and more
people are dancing to my tunes or dancing with us. So for a little longer, as I look back to the
history, not just looking back the history of the past, for the top management of next generation I
want to make sure that they can move forward looking at the future, so I would like to hand the
baton over in that manner. So I hope you will continue to support us in that, based upon the
history, you are now trying to steer and forge the future. I once again heard from you the
determination (multiple speakers). Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Shimizu for your question.
Operator
Going on to the next question from (inaudible). We'll now be switching the screen. When you see
yourself on the screen, please start your question. We are now switching the screen. Mr.
Nawadska [ph] please. It seems that your microphone is on mute, can you turn on your
microphone?
A - Unidentified Speaker
I'm from Nikkan Kogyo, my name is Nawadska. Thank you. Hi. I have a question to President
Toyoda. For electrification, we are seeing an acceleration of the flow of electrification and Tesla's
performance is quite steady and currently the battery sales for the vehicle batteries, they're
moving in-house and trying to improve the competitiveness on cost. So I'd like to ask how you
view the company Tesla, President Toyoda, and based on your view, can you talk about your
outlook for Toyota's electrification plans?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Representative Director `
Thank you for your questions. And, well, I will be talking about how I view Tesla. And for
electrification strategy I will like to ask Mr. Terashi here to respond. So first of all, in the stock
market, Tesla's market capitalization is around JPY40 trillion and this amount, JPY40 trillion, for
example, if you take Toyota and add the seven Japanese car companies, it will be the total of --
looking at all of these automobile companies, it's JPY33 trillion. So it means that just with one
company, one Tesla, adding all the seven automobile companies of Japan, they have more
market value than these seven Japanese automakers. And this company Tesla, they have made
profit from BEVs. And also with software updates, they have been generating profit. So that is the
business model that we have. And also within adding renewable energies and looking at LCS,
ASCA [ph] also reducing CO2, all these activities that they're doing, there are, for us, many
points to learn from. But I'd also like to say that for Toyota as well, we have been taking measures
to deal with the case areas. For the past three years, we have been making advanced
investments in these areas and in 2019, looking at the trend in the stock market, I think you will be
able to see this reflected into the trend.For Toyota the stock price compared with other car companies, Toyota's shares are -- share price
is making a different move -- starting to make a different move. In 2019, the press releases
regarding the case and the decisions that we made around the case in the companies that are
working with the real industry. I think we have been making significant investments and that has
been acknowledged by the market. And in addition, we have established TRI and TRIAD. And in
these companies, they Arene software development is being worked on and that will be the core
to have our focus, not just on the hardware, but to employ the idea, the approach of software
first, and it will be realized utilizing the Arene that is being developed right now.
And so what we have and what Tesla doesn't have is the units in operation, more than 100 million
vehicles out in the world and this real world that we have in business that we are in. So without
being hesitant, to say this, Tesla's business, if I can say, is a business is like a -- you can use the
analogy of kitchen and a chef, I think. So the kitchen and the chef, they have not created a real
business yet or a real world yet, but they're trying to trade the recipes and the chef is saying that,
well, our recipe is going to become the standard of the world in the future. I think that is the kind
of business they have. But for Toyota, we have a kitchen, a real kitchen, and we have a real chef
too. And we are creating real dishes and there are the customers who are very picky about what
they like to eat and they are sitting in front of us and eating our dishes. So with all these people,
we can say, we see that the energy situation is different according to which region we talk about
in the world, and also we are holding the menu and the recipe, probably will be selective,
because we have the four menu lineup. And of course, in looking at the current share price, we
are losing against the evaluation as a share price, but we will always be watching and learning
from them, and we will always be determined to be the electric application full line-up vehicle
maker. And I think, we will be one step ahead to able to be selected from our customers because
of this situation it has.
And now for electrification strategy, like Mr. Terashi to respond.
A - `Shigeki Terashi, Chief Project Officer `
This is Terashi speaking. I'd like to talk a little bit about our electrification strategy. So Prime
Minister Suga said that Japan is going to target becoming carbon-neutral by 2050, at 2050. So
this means, in other words, in 2050, in the mobility world, you need to have a zero-emission
vehicle in order to achieve a 2050 carbon-neutral Japan. So in this situation, in this environment,
around the globe the environmental regulations are becoming ever more tougher. Therefore,
towards 2050 in order to achieve that target, various types of technologies will become
important. For example, hydrogen. There are certain regions that have excess hydrogen supply.
Those regions should utilize the hydrogen. And then renewable energy, if they have a lot of
electricity that can be created from renewable energy, then they can use that. So I think there is a
lot of options according to the regions that we talk about. And like our President has just said,
(multiple speakers) mobility, who (multiple speakers) cars, at the end it's the customers. So
whatever the regulation is, the customer will select what they want, and we will be trying to
achieve carbon-neutral with what the customer selected. So, from those two perspectives, we
need to advance our technology in order to achieve that target. We can't just look at one side of
these two. We need to look at the region, the customer, the regulation level, also the
environment of that region. All these factors will be a factor to select the what type of mobility.
And at that time we want to be able to provide a mobility that customers can select from in each
of those respective situations. So we as a whole lineup maker will be working on the fuel cell
vehicle and also the electrified vehicles too, but among the electrified vehicles, the most practical
solution will be hybrids; probably next will be plug-in hybrid. So having those multiple options, and
every year the distribution will be different on how much will be supplied. And at end, we will beachieving zero emission by utilizing all of these types of vehicles, and that we want always to
(multiple speakers) of those vehicles we are going to select. Thank you, Mr. Nawadska. Thank you.
Operator
Now let us move on to the next question from Chunichi Newspaper, Osada [ph]. I will switch the
screen, so once see you find yourself on the screen, please start your question. Ms. Osada, could
you start your question, please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. Osada, of Chunichi Newspaper. Mr. Toyoda, thank you for your message and the
presentation. And in your presentation, you mentioned that -- and I was about to ask the question
relating to that, relating to the Toyota's carmaking. You said -- talked about the importance of
producing and selling each vehicle one by one and at the same time for people working for
Toyota, they have grown stronger, you mentioned that in your presentation as well. Looking at
the first half and the new car sales in Japan for fiscal year 2021, amongst the top 10 best-selling
vehicles, the Toyota made cars are number six models -- six models -- Toyota models are
included amongst top 10. So even if you are able to produce those vehicles, but unless they're
appealing and attractive customers don't choose them. The fact that your cars are chosen by
customers means that you have been able to deliver and provide attractive cars in a timely
manner. That I think led to the recovery that you have achieved to date. In terms of the evolution
of car making, has there been any important evolution or important factor in carmaking? Is there
anything that you have personally felt about the important factor in carmaking under the COVID-
19 crisis? And toward the last part of your presentation, you referred to Toyota philosophy and I
just wanted to ask about that, and this is a very good opportunity. Stemming from pre-Toyota
precepts, your referred to Toyota philosophy in which you propose as the company mission to
produce happiness for all. Now, why now? Why have you defined Toyota's philosophy in this
current context? Going back to Toyota precepts, starting with Sakichi and after his passage, in
order to achieve this automotive industry to determine -- the determination, Kiichiro, the founding
father of this company compiled this to the precepts. And stemming from that, as a continuation
from that you announced and qualified this Toyota philosophy now. So could you refer to the
reason behind that?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Representative Director `
Thank you for your question. It is the customers and market that determine whether a car is
attractive and appealing. We are trying to produce those cars, make them appealing and
attractive. But some time, some models are not regarded as such by customers and therefore
the fact that we haven't introduced large number of new models and that's how I analyze the
situation. And one of the reasons relates to the establishment of so-called company system
within Toyota. We produce and sell close to 10 million vehicles on the full line basis, but in the
past, in TMC, we didn't have the system under which we call -- whether it's called global master
plan was used. What sort of model is produced to what sort of the volume and the different
models were prioritized based upon global master plan. That's how we did our business. And
under such plan, those cars that -- well, produced large amount of profit, receives high priority
and some years ago, I don't exactly remember when, but we have decided to introduce
company system. And under that company system in Toyota Motor Corporation, each company
would play a certain role amongst the 10 million units and each company will have the hardest
efforts to make, so that the vehicles produced in that company will become the most attractive
and appealing, so that they will be given higher platforms. So sometimes, it was based upon
platform or the vehicles used for daily life, or coasters or Land Cruiser, which was not redesignedfor over decades or centuries, another model, and for many decades, it didn't have any
redesigns and we didn't have a hybrid version for a century. So that's how we stood. And in that
general context, we wanted to introduce this system where somebody within the company
wanting to to produce and sell certain types of models. And that I think produced positive results.
And in the most reasonable period, at the time of the great Global Financial Crisis, so East Japan
earthquake, we wondered what we should be doing with different projects and we applied the
decelerating brake at the time of the global financial crisis, covering all the new projects we've
decided to stop and discontinue those projects for once. But this time, facing the crisis, instead of
suppressing or discontinuing those activities, we simply try to continue producing and continue
doing business, especially in April and May when we were not able to operate plants, in those
plants what happened in different production plants? Once the COVID-19 crisis sobered, the
dealers starts selling and once we are able to restart the production of vehicles, I am sure there
are many customers waiting to buy new models. And therefore, maximum of 50 units per day
need to be added or increased in production.
What do we have to do now? And many of our workers at the front line thought what needs to
be done at this point in order to add the production by 50 units per day, and in order to achieve
that, the speed of the production line had to be shortened by four seconds in the case of Toyota.
t's not easy to shorten production line time by 4 seconds. Some can be done when the
production line has stopped. If that is the case, the production lines operating in day time or
night, either those lines have stopped using that strategy [ph] based upon (inaudible) efforts.
They try to achieve four second shortening of the production line and on doing so, if the
production had to be increased all of sudden, those increased production requirement was
achieved without increasing people assigned to those production lines.
So by doing so, without stopping any of the new projects that allowed us to introduce new
models as have been planned initially. In the same time, about your question on the Toyota
Philosophy, why now, why did we decide to make a statutory framework for that? Actually, inside
Toyota, when I have discussion with many employees, they talk about fight (multiple speakers) I
seem to have been using that word very often in my discussion. But at the same time, I'd say, we
shouldn't discuss in terms of confrontational context. So people ask who are you fighting against?
And once I was asked by one of the employees, who are you fighting against? And I wonder
whom am I fighting against. And the person I'm fighting against was actually for the purpose of
regaining what it is that makes Toyota. And when I was thinking what is really making Toyota,
Toyota, and when I had that in mind I was faced with this COVID-19 crisis, and during that crisis
time I stayed in the training center of Toyota Group, (multiple speakers) documents and the
materials and one of the employees found that (multiple speakers) that showed the Toyota
precepts. And (multiple speakers) that was really the thing for us to think about Toyota
philosophy. So based upon that conical shape I established this Toyota philosophy, adding the
new vision, and also new mission. But earlier, one of the members of the corporate auditing
board mentioned that Toyota thinks that if the job is done, so long as what is necessary is
produced. We used to have (multiple speakers) we know the reason why (multiple speakers)
survived despite the fact that (multiple speakers) produced what they needed solidly (multiple
speakers). In the case of homo sapiens, in addition to that they added beauty, the enjoyment and
those other aspects, in addition to producing what is needed. And that's what one of the
members of the auditing board said. So that is to say, based upon vision, or (multiple speakers)
to describe what is needed, and even if we can reflect that in those visions, that doesn't ensure
your survival. You also need beauty or certain enjoyment.
Going back to the issue of Toyota production system, Toyota is not necessarily also after higher
efficiency. We always wanted to make things easier and that what I continue to say over the years.And according to that person and also listening to his advice, not just making things easier, I have
decided to make things enjoyable, that is to say to introduce or add the element of homo
sapiens. Of course, the peace and also the enjoyment is the same Chinese character, but those
enjoyment and also the (multiple speakers) because of the factors leads to people choosing our
vehicles and allows us to survive over the years. So in that sense, that is one the reasons why we
decided to create and in (multiple speakers) but by creating that we have been able to invite
those advice flowing into the companies. What is important is by having such vision, we can
continue discussing what it is that makes Toyota, Toyota. And always we have been able to
reflect upon ourselves in response to environmental changes. It's very important to use that as a
build too for doing this. In that sense, SDGs is a very positive factor (multiple speakers) and
comparing the two, we will make sure that we will be able to be chosen by many partners and
(multiple speakers) as compared (multiple speakers) and we will continue to make efforts to that
end. So I hope I can continue asking for your support going forward. I feel as if I'm speaking at
that the AGM. I have many major shareholders right in front of me. So that somehow makes me
to respond as if this is an AGM. Thank you very much.
Operator
We'd like to go onto the next question. (multiple speakers) you begin your question, please.
We're switching the screen now. Mr. Shimashita [ph], can you begin?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. I'm a motor journalist. My name is Shimashita. Thank you very much for this
opportunity. So under COVID, your performance is quite good. And President Toyoda you always
say that you don't like to win. I don't like to lose. And I'm feeling how Toyota is becoming
stronger. And my question is about Mirai. The next generation Mirai had a test drive recently and
very simply, I thought it was cools, that's my impression. And also, I was very impressed with the
very good driving performance. And so, 30,000 units globally and more than 10,000 units in
Japan and growing this Mirai volume is going to be very key for Toyota. And for the previous
generation, I've used Mirai for four years. And from that experience, we heard a question about
Tesla, but in the similar timing, these two vehicles coming out, Tesla vehicle and also Mirai. There
are people around also who is wondering which they should buy. And Tesla, they have been
updating. Do you think those updating opportunities with new technologies and even Muska [ph]
with a strong character, who appeals with strong messages. But Mirai, on the other hand, didn't
have that kind of strong message. But for Toyota, I think Mirai is important, the hydrogen society
in the future is important. And what is the advantage is what is necessary for the future, that kind
of message was not really heard easily from Toyota side, and that's what the people around me
were saying and I felt that way too. So for the people who like the advanced technologies, I think
those people quite resonate with those messages and then they decide to make their purchase.
So for the new generation Mirai, or if as you are going to be spreading out, popularizing the other
CV, commercial vehicles, FCVs, sorry, excuse me, the Fuel Cell Vehicles further, what is your idea
and how you'll be doing that or any -- your plans about the Fuel Cell Vehicles?
Well rather than a message I think it's a story that we try to step out [ph]. So we want to introduce
our vehicles with a story, we want our models to be understood together with a story that it
brings. And for us, when we launch a new vehicle, we talk about the new features. I think there is
a tendency to focus on the new features in the past. But now, what we want to focus on is by
using or having this model, what kind of story will be brought to you, what kind of a story that you
will be able to participate in as the main character, I think that should be added to the explanation
that we provide when we present a new model.And for the new generation Mirai as well, it's not that's just by launching the new Mirai, the FCV
vehicle start to be seen on the road. It's not for pure EVs and also the FCVs. It always has to be
thought together with the infrastructure. So it's not about which comes, either comes first. What I
always say is, it's like a flower and a honey bee. So you need both. Infrastructure in the vehicles is
like the relationship between a flower and a honey bee and now in the environment we're seeing
the wave of electrification along these two. So that will be the trigger, and with that trigger, the
electrification will be going in the direction of electrification and as a full line-up maker, we want to
provide multiple options to the customers. That is what we are thinking, and I hope that Mr.
Shimashita, you will always be sharply looking at what we do and if you have any questions about
our story, you should voice that any time. So we are looking forward to your very short comments.
Thank you. So for those kinds of -- I hope that that can be done in a continuous way. I think for us
to give a story, it's important to have a continuation. But give us those sharp comments with love,
please. We want you to have -- with your loving emotion please. Thank you.
So it seems that there are more questions, but because of the time, we'd like to limit the
question to one more.
Operator
(Multiple Speakers) if you find yourself on the screen, please start your question. So we are now
switching the screen. Mr. (inaudible), thank you for waiting. Could you just start your question.
please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) is my name. Thank you for this opportunity for asking a question. About the Toyota
Philosophy, or the company that produces -- mass produces the vehicles for the market, that's
very good to define your company as such, but the important thing is whether you can sustain
that and if you can remain such a company over a long period of time. Looking at the Japanese
companies in the past, of course, the founding spirit talks about very lofty ideas, but companies
tend to change over the years, focusing on profit and thinking about revenue. There are
numerous companies as such, and Toyota does have this Toyota precepts but there may have
been some less emphasis placed on that and I really think it's a very good thing that they have
decided to have this Toyota philosophy, but I don't know how long and until when we will continue
to be in the current position and you never know when Toyota's performance deteriorates in the
future. So when those things happen, for this to remain the unwavering value of the company, to
make sure that that is going to be the case, is it safe whether having the current situation to
make sure that the philosophy (multiple speakers) or if the environment changes or conditions
change, do you think that things could change in the company, the values and focuses may
change? Is that how you think? So you're still thinking what is further needed to ensure focusing
on this Toyota Percepts which (multiple speakers) due to the philosophy and one of the questions
which is addressed to Mr. Kobayashi and you now are called Bunto and I saw a real smile, wide
smile when you're called Bunto. What is your definition of Bunto Mr. Kobayashi? And what is the
role of Bunto or what is it that Bunto should never do? What is your view on that? Could you share
your own thoughts on that? Sorry for asking two questions at a time.
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Representative Director `
So let us start with the answer on Bunto. Kobayashi Bunto.
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Board Member, Chief Competitive Officer `Now Bunto, actually -- actually this is until fourth year of (inaudible) that is 1929, and it disappeared
because of the change of the commercial code, because it may be considered as (multiple
speakers). And when I wanted to introduce Bunto and (multiple speakers). I used to be presented
as Boss and both Kawai-san and myself seem to be a very difficult superior to present. And
therefore, he didn't want to call us Executive Vice President, because, of course, he is a President.
He may be looking down on those. So he eliminated the system of EVPs. And once the EVP
position are eliminated, our President started calling us Bunto and (inaudible). So this would just
be the system for my own generation and Bunto's role is to help and assist the President and to
convey the philosophy of President to employees in an easy to understand manner. And
whatever employees are thinking about and to make sure that those ideas of employees are
reflected and embedded in the strategies. And those I think are the most important role of a
Bunto. So in that sense, I make sure, when I have lunch, whereby I make sure that I have lunch with
executives or key employees because -- and this leads to your first question.
To have good and correct understanding of a top executive is the key, ensuring good running of
the company that's most important. I joined Toyota once again as an (multiple speakers) and
there are numerous people who are capable and with great ability with growth calibers. Whether
you have the same mettle as a top executive, your idea is aligned with the top executive, actually
the alignment of philosophy is very important and I personally feel very strongly about that. I
mean, whether one is performing well or not is up to others to evaluate. But to have aligned
better is different. So in that general context, I wanted to convey and communicate what the
President is thinking to younger employees or younger executives. So by doing so, and we talked
about the philosophy and we said we may only be focused on (multiple speakers) in the future,
the companies tend to change, you referred to that in your question, but including younger
members in the society, as the company itself has in-depth understanding of that, that will ensure
sustained growth, practice of this philosophy itself in the company. And actually in the past, we
created many visions or philosophies. We had to (multiple speakers) qualified, but none of that
had really permeated throughout the company, because once those are qualified and printed
and distributed to employees that was the end of those Toyota way and other documents. But
we wanted to use a new philosophy in a different manner, reconsidering (multiple speakers) I
mean Toyoda Precept is the backbone which reflects the thinking, the idea of the company. And
we wanted to translate that Toyota precepts, which is written in a rather arcane Japanese into
easier to understand Japanese. So in translating that, the role that I play is very important. So in
that sense, I reprimand and scold all the executives almost every day and that raises my blood
pressure significantly.
The younger employees have nothing to be blamed. But when I discuss those things with the
employees, I think I now for the first time understand what the President had in mind. So I'm not
quite sure I'm responding to Mr. (inaudible) question. But that I think is the role of a Bunto. What
are the points which relates to the Toyota philosophy? This is a not a goal, the philosophy is not a
goal itself. It's only a starting point in my view. As I mentioned earlier, to a certain extent, going
forward, I mean conditions and environmental change and when those changes take place, for
the next generation top executives, when they face difficult challenges and probably to have
some guiding post when they find themselves in difficult situations, the philosophy could serve a
useful purpose, if it could be used in that manner, I think it will be really good.
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Representative Director `
Mr. (inaudible) talked about focus on profit. I don't think it's vile and it's a bad thing to pursue
profit. Building a company means to make profit and pay tax. That I think is very important actually.
And that's the best way to contribute to the society. So, seeking only profit doesn't mean theprofit is going to be used. And having people have full understanding of the importance of to
whom the profit is used and how the profit is used, to generate such people as many as possible
is very important. Generally speaking, in the society, that making profit is something wrong, but
company not making constant profit cannot make any investment towards future (multiple
speakers) in general. When I became President at the initial stage, the company was booking
deficits, we were a loss-making company at the time and when we are still making profit, we'd
have to stop and put and put a brake on everything we have been engaged in and in that general
context, we went through that and today we find ourselves capable of making investment for the
future and secure good employees and we can shift to those works and jobs that people can
really enjoy. Unless you're making profit, you won't be able to do (multiple speakers). You will
simply continue putting your foot on the brake pedal. So (inaudible) and all those stakeholders I'd
like to ask all of you, not to criticize or put a brake on Toyota trying to say profit -- for making
profit. But please question us what those profits are used for, for what purpose and what sort of
determination and intention that we're making for those profits. You can be criticizing that. But
please look at us from that light. Faced with criticism or advice we're willing to listen to those and
all times and over a long term. If you said that decision made at that time is not paying off and
although everybody was against that decision made at that time, but looking back that really
represented the turning point. I would like to continue making decisions day in and day out. The
decision we make today could be looked at from that perspective. I hope you will continue to
give us rather strict, but also very encouraging advice.
Thank you very much. With this we would like to conclude this financial results announcement.
Thank you very much for your participation and your attention.