Y 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for taking the time to participate today, despite your busy schedule. We would now like
to begin Toyota Motor Cooperation’s Financial Results Announcement for Fiscal Year 2020.
In order to prevent the infection of the new coronavirus, and also based on the guidelines
provided from the government, we have decided to hold this announcement online; and for the
venue of our announcement, we have minimum staff standing by. In order to secure
announcement clarity, we have decided to provide the sound without using masks. We have two
sections today. Session 1 will be from 1:15 up to 2:00, and Session 2 will be from 2:10 to 2:55.
There will be a 10-minute break in between.
I would now like to introduce our Session 1 participants. We have our Operating Officer, Kenta
Kon. Also, our Operating Officer, Masayoshi Shiroyanagi.
Now, we would like to begin by providing an overview of our financial results.
`Kenta Kon, Operating Officer `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer. First and foremost, we would like
to convey our deepest condolences to those who have lost loved ones to COVID-1,9 and wish all
those who have been affected by the virus a speedy recovery. We also wish to extend our
sincere gratitude to the healthcare professionals and officials who are on the frontlines for their
tireless work. We also would like to express our heartfelt appreciation to our customers around
the world who chose us, as well as our shareholders, dealers, and suppliers who support us.
I would like to discuss Toyota’s financial results for the fiscal year which ended in March 2020.
Compared to the previous fiscal year, consolidated vehicle sales decreased by 19,000 units, to
8.958 million units. This was a result of decreased sales, mainly in Asia, due to market
deterioration in Thailand, India, and Indonesia. This includes a sales decrease of 127,000 units,
caused by COVID-19.
Consolidated financial results for the fiscal year were: net revenue of JPY29.9299 trillion,
operating income of JPY2.4428 trillion, pretax income of JPY2.5546 trillion, and net income of
JPY2.761 trillion. Due to the spread of COVID-19, net revenues decreased by JPY380 billion, and
operating income decreased by JPY160 billion.
Using slide six, I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income YoY.First, the effects of foreign exchange rates decreased operating income by JPY305 billion.
Second, cost reduction efforts increased operating income by JPY170 billion. Third, marketing
efforts decreased operating income by JPY90 billion; and finally, a reduction in expenses
increased operating income by JPY45 billion. As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign
exchange rates, SWAP valuation gains and losses, and other factors, operating income improved
by JPY125 billion YoY. As for the breakdown of the negative impact of JPY160 billion caused by
the spread of COVID-19, JPY100 billion was due to a decrease in volumes of vehicle sales, and
JPY60 billion was due to an increase in provisions for the financial services business.
Now, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region, going from the left-hand side
to the right-hand side on slide seven.
In Japan, operating income was down JPY121.8 billion YoY, to JPY1.5685 trillion, mainly due to the
impact of marketing efforts. In North America, operating income was JPY289.5 billion, up JPY145.4
billion compared to the previous fiscal year, mainly thanks to marketing efforts and a reduction in
expenses. In Europe, operating income was up JPY19.6 billion YoY, to JPY140.7 billion, mainly a
result of marketing efforts. In Asia, operating income, including that of consolidated subsidiaries in
China, was down JPY66.9 billion YoY, to JPY386.8 billion, due to the effects of Forex rates,
caused by depreciation of the Chinese won and appreciation of the Thai bot. In other regions,
operating income decreased by JPY6.9 billion YoY, to JPY82.6 billion. This was largely due to the
effects of Forex rates.
Next, let me explain our consolidated subsidiaries and equity method affiliates in China, as well as
our financial services business.
As for our China business, operating income of consolidated subsidiaries decreased by JPY16.2
billion YoY, to JPY134.4 billion. Excluding the effects of Forex rates, caused by depreciation of the
Chinese won, operating income increased by JPY30.9 billion YoY. Equity and earnings of equity
method affiliates was up JPY13.1 billion YoY, to JPY118.1 billion, largely thanks to marketing efforts.
Regarding financial services, operating income was down JPY32.6 billion YoY. to JPY309.7 billion.
This was mainly due to an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Next, I would like to explain our return to shareholders.
We have decided to make the year-end dividend on shares of common stock JPY120 per share.
Thus, the dividend on the shares of the common stock for the fiscal year will be JPY220 per
share, which grew the interim dividend of JPY100 per share and the payout ratio for the fiscal
year will be 29.9%. We always endeavor to pay dividends in a stable and sustainable manner,
using the consolidated [payout ratio] of [30]% as a benchmark. Considering our earnings
performance, we have decided to pay the same dividend amount as the previous fiscal year. We
will continue to aim to pay stable and sustainable dividends.
As for share repurchases, we have decided not to repurchase our common stock as a form of
year-end shareholder return. Amid a growing sense of uncertainty in the global economy, we
would like to prioritize the [inaudible] of our cash reserve to sustain the automotive
manufacturing industry [inaudible], to pursue competitiveness, and to continue our activities
towards achieving the [inaudible] society, together with all our stakeholders. We would appreciate
your understanding and cooperation.
I’d like to move on to discuss the outlook for the full fiscal year ending March 2021. Please note
that we will adopt IFRS beginning from the first quarter of the fiscal year ending March 2021.
Therefore, the consolidated forecast is calculated in accordance with IFRS.Consolidated vehicle sales for the fiscal year ending March 2021 are expected to be 7 million
units, down 1.958 million units YoY. At this moment, a state of emergency and lockdowns have
likely been implemented in many countries, due to the [progression] of COVID-19. Although it is
difficult to foresee the future, and the situation varies by regions and countries, [inaudible] being
the floor, we have assumed that sales will gradually recover to 2019 level by year-end to next
year. We are not able to provide the regional sales breakdown, as it is difficult to foresee the
future spread of infection and progress with containment.
Next, let me explain the full-year consolidated financial performance.
We have assumed the foreign exchange rate to be JPY105 per dollar and JPY115 per euro. Based
on this forecast, the consolidated financial performance is: net revenue of JPY24 trillion and
operating income of JPY500 billion. Forecast of other items has yet to be determined.
I would like to explain the factors which will impact operating income YoY.
First, the negative effect of Forex rates will be JPY430 billion, as we have assumed that the yen
will appreciate against the US dollar and the euro. Second, we anticipate the adjusted decrease in
volume of the vehicle sales will have a negative impact on operating income of JPY1.5 trillion.
Effective factors, other than vehicle sales, will be even, although this includes the effects of cost
reduction, marketing efforts, changes in fixed costs, product mix, and [by] designation mix. We
are not able to provide detailed analysis. While strengthening TPS and [inaudible] cost at all
levels, we remain committed to thoroughly reshaping ourselves into a mobility company, and
continue sowing seeds for the future with a strong will.
This concludes my presentation. I thank you very much for your attention.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Now, we would like to go on to receive questions. We would also like to ask you to keep your
question to two questions. Thank you for understanding. Mr. Suzuki of Chunichi Newspapers.
Q - Unverified Participant
I am Suzuki from Chunichi Newspapers. Thank you. I have mainly two questions. My first question
is for March 2020 fiscal year for these financial results and what will be your comment and
evaluation, and also, about your forecast for the next fiscal year, as you have explained, at the
end of term, you had the COVID-19 impact. Therefore, with how you have ended, how do you
evaluate the results. For your forecast of the next fiscal year, with the uncertain visibility with the
coronavirus impact, there are many companies who have refrained from making announcements
of forecast for the next term. However, how have you come up with the basis for the calculation
to come up with the forecast?
My second question would be for the current sales situation. In China market, we see that
recovery is quicker than other markets, and sales are recovering. However, for Toyota, compared
with your competitors, it seems that your recovery of sales is faster than competitors. And even
for the domestic market, there is a big drop in the domestic decreased, but compared with other
competitors, I think Toyota’s sales drop is not that big. How do you see the current situation?
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer `Thank you very much for your questions. First of all, regarding your question about the results of
the FY2020 financial results, with the COVID-19 impact that I have explained earlier, including
those, we have seen a drop in volume. Also, we have seen a drop in both revenue and also
profit. If you have your slides at hand, if you can open to slide six please, this is the analysis of the
consolidated operating income, the ups and downs, the plus factors and the negative factors.
Among these factors, looking at the center square box that says excluding the overall impact of
foreign exchange rates and SWAP valuation gains and losses, this was a positive JPY125 billion.
We shouldn’t be talking on hypothesis basis, but if we did not have the COVID-19 impact, this
number would have been an improvement of JPY285 billion. For the past few years, this area
where we exclude the overall impact of foreign exchange rates and SWAP valuation gains and
losses, we had a determination to always be on the positive side, and we have made profit
improvement activities and actually improved profit. Even considering those activities, this plus
JPY125 billion has been a significant improvement. For the past few years, we have been able to
continuously make positive improvement in this item. It is thanks to everyone’s support. However,
we are very grateful that we have made this positive improvement. Also, for the expense
reduction efforts and also for investments, we have been proactively making investments for the
future. However, even though there are positive investments for the future, I think this is an
opportunity to look back and review on whether there are any areas that we should be reviewing
and see it as a way. That would be a challenge that we will be taking on. Repeating myself,
making profit improvements for continuous years has been a good thing. That would be my
response for your first question.
For the valuation of the next financial fiscal year, as you have said, it is going to be very difficult to
foresee the sales volume and also the financial performance, and in this environment, we have
decided to make a forecast. For our actual business activity side, it is very difficult to see. It is very
invisible, and we have consulted with our president, President Toyoda, and we were saying that it
would be very difficult to come up with a forecast. However, we said that we do need to have a
certain kind of a standard criteria so that we would be able to manage the abnormality values. In
order to do good management, we believe that it’s necessary to have the criteria. Also, we are in
the automobile industry. We are in OEM here in this industry, and this industry has very wide
supporting businesses. We thought that there is a necessity for us to show a forecast as some
kind of a criteria as we move forward. That was the reason why we decided to make an
announcement of this year’s forecast. However, as you have said, it is very difficult to do a clear
forecast. Therefore, that is why we have made this type of forecast. Also, compared YoY from
April to June, it would be about 60% of the total. From July to September, it would be around
80% of the usual YoY total, and October to December, about 90% of the YoY total. This is our
estimate of our market situation compared to the past term. That is the basis of our calculation,
and also, we did not look just from a short-term perspective. We looked at what we need to stop,
what we need to change, what we need to continue to do. Those are perspectives that we held
in reviewing our various activities. Not just stopping or changing certain activities that we have
been executing, we are looking for the perspective as something that we will continue to do. This
would be from both perspectives of making investments for the future. This is all reflected into
our forecast that has been announced. For the details, usually we do provide further details on
geographical breakdowns. However, we are not able to do it at this point in time. We are very
sorry for that. That will be the situation for this running term’s forecast.
Also, for your next question about the China market compared with other competitors, your
question was that we are somehow holding on. As you have said correctly, the China market, the
April results have been about slightly over 100% YoY. For the automobile sector industry, the
market has been below, but I think compared with the drop in the market, I think our results were
good. I think this is because mainly with the hybrid models, new models have been accepted byour customers in the market very well. Corolla, Levin, RAV4. Also, this February, we have launched
the Wildlander, a new model for this year. Those new models have been accepted by our
customers in a positive way. I think this is one of the reasons. For the domestic market, yes, it is a
very tough situation, but as we have entered May, we have moved into selling all models at all
channels. This initiative has started. Therefore, we have been able to create a structure where if
there is a customer who wants a certain model it will be more accessible, and Kinto, a new
subscription service has also started. We are trying to provide various and more opportunities
and options for customers to select from. That is my understanding of the current situation. That
will be my response. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much, Mr. Suzuki. Next question please. Mr. Yuzawa of Nikkei Shinbun please. It’s
your turn.
Q - Unverified Participant
I am Yuzawa from Nikkei Newspaper. Thank you for this opportunity. I have two points. In the
major countries, what is taking place? For the individual markets, I don’t think you counted the
details as results analysis, but North America and Europe, in those major markets, what is the
trend for the cars market? For North America, there are parts supplied from Mexico. This is a
worry for us and also China, Southeast Asia. These nations are sending their parts to North
America, and there is a breakdown of the supply chain because of the COVID-19. Do you have
that worry? If there is a concern, what is your reaction?
Second question, about the cash reserve. In April, JPY1.150 trillion was the commitment line that
you have secured, according to the mass media. Do you think that the current cash reserve is
enough? What is your idea, including your action to support the suppliers? I’d like to ask for your
comments on the cash reserve, if it’s enough or not, including your support to suppliers.
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer `
Thank you very much for your question. First of all, major markets, trend of the market that you
have asked to me. First of all, to look at each region in a separate manner seems to be very
difficult as of now. However, for North America, first of all, starting from May, the lockdown
regulation is released as of today, and also, the starting of the operation in the plants in North
America was started already. After COVID-19 is over, since the American economy seems to be
very strong as of today, and also, there’s supporting activities and the major stimulus payment of
the federal government. In the early phase of this year, it may return to the normal condition.
Also, Europe, you can say the same thing for Europe as well. There are economic initiatives taken
by the government, so after July, the sales will recover in Europe. This is our assumption. In the
early period of 2021, the situation in Europe will return to the condition of the previous year. And
also, you have asked the cash reserves condition at TMC (Toyota Motor Corporation). JPY1.250
trillion commitment line is what we have as of today, and as of now, cash reserve is in shortage,
according to our analysis. Therefore, for Monozukuri and for automotive industry itself, we have
to protect the automotive industry for the continuation of our business. That means that wide-
ranging suppliers and partners we are having the business with, so with these stakeholders, we
have to continue our motor security activities firmly to the future. When some of our partners are
suffering from the shortage of finance, we have to help them. Then, the cash on hand or cash
reserves as of today, is it enough or not? We don’t think it is in shortage as of today. I hope I have
answered your question.A - `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer `
So, supply chain or breaking down of the supply chain. In the COVID-19, this seems to be a
problem in supply chain. At the time of the The Great East Japan Earthquake visualization of the
supply chain has been searched with the structured business scheme of the supply chain
visualization. With this visualization of the supply chain, I think we are better now. We took two
weeks for identifying the supply areas with problems, but it is now being reduced to half a day
already. Also, day-to-day business improvement, for instance, having the support from the
suppliers, prevention of accidents and also the alternative supplier identification and also return
to the normal operation. For these activities, we have reported ourselves on a day-to-day
business. A single concentration in China used to be the problem, and with China, which suffered
a lot from COVID-19, we were able to secure the supply chain with alternative suppliers also in
China, and also, when we were not able to support the venture in China with the venture’s
activities, we had to struggle. How we solve these problems which may take place in the future
again, we have no perfect answer, but together with the suppliers, we will discuss more so that
we can be ready for any accidents.
Operator
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Yuzawa. Next question. Kyodo Tsuhin, Mr. Yamazaki, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you. This is Yamazaki speaking from Kyodo Tsushin. I have two questions. My first question.
With the impact of COVID-19, for the term ending March 2021, including this year, will there be an
impact in your new model launch plans? For 2019, April to June financial results, you said that until
2021, you’re going to introduce 18 new models. I believe that was your past new model
introduction plan. Was there any change to that? That’s my first question.
My second question is about R&D expenses, and you’ve mentioned that you’re going to continue
your investments for the future. Regarding Woven City project and plans, do you have any
changes to this? In addition, regarding Woven City, what is the total amount of investment that
you are considering? That will be all for my questions.
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer `
Thank you for your questions. Starting with the new model launch plans, if there is a change or not
with COVID-19, well, partially. When we have looked in the future new model plans, there will be
some projects that will be delayed than the original plan. There will be some delays in some
projects and their development activities. For the new model launches, we are going to take this
timing as an opportunity and review what we have done in the past as business as usual. For our
full model changes, minor changes, and our refinement, a small change of projects, we are doing
a total review of whether we should do it or not. I’m sorry, but at hand, I do not have the details of
the original 18 new model launches, how it is going to be changed, so I will not be able to give
you the details, but I don’t think that there is a significant change from the original plan. I’m sorry,
I’m talking based on some assumptions, but that is what I can say now.
For the R&D expenses, if there are any changes with the Woven City project investments, from
your question, before as I have explained, I have said that we’re not just going to review what we
should stop or change. We are going to see what are the projects that we should be determined
to continue to do. Regarding Woven City, this will be something that we will see through until the
end. It will be in the third category of what we will be continuing to do. Compared with theneeds of the customers, and related to that, there may be changes. For the large part, there will
be no significant change. For the amount of investment, we are now working on the details of the
plan. Therefore, I’m sorry, but I do not have any detailed numbers that I can provide you today.
That will be all for my response.
Operator
Yamazaki-san, thank you very much. Next question, please. Wall Street Journal, Mr. Sean
[inaudible] please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Hi. Sean McLain from the Wall Street Journal. Apologies for the question in English. Two questions.
First of all, if I could ask about your projections in operating profit for the current year, why is it so
low? It seems that your results for this past year were doing well. You seem to believe that
Europe and the US are recovering sales wise, and China seems to be recovering. Why is your
projection so pessimistic?
Then secondly, if I could ask specifically about North America, in your manufacturing plants, you
started to resume production. By when do you expect to be back up to full speed and full
production? That’s my questions.
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer `
Thank you very much for your questions. Starting with our forecast for the operating profit for the
running term, why is it so forecasted at a lower level? For Europe and United States, if we are
seeing some recovery, isn’t it too low from the recovery that we are seeing now? I think that was
your first question. For the forecast of operating profit, we said that we forecasted it at JPY500
billion, and the basis of the volume of sales that we see it as 7 million units for consolidated basis,
and it is about a 20% decrease YoY. For China, for the Lexus retail sales, regarding this activity,
we assume that it will be an 8 million sales basis because last year the result was about a little
over 9.4 million. It will be a drop of about 0.5 million units. For China’s market, as you have said, in
March, we’ve seen an 80%. In April, we’ve seen a 100% of YoY results. That will be the results of
our sales. We do also see that we are going into recovery. Also, for the United States, for April
sales, we thought that it would be ending quite low, but from there, from our expectation of what
we have expected, it was a little higher than we have expected. But as I have said earlier, going
forward, we cannot be for certain that which will be the month that we will see a good recovery.
That is why this is kind of a temporary premise or forecast that we are placing right now. As you
have said, yes, Europe and United States, the operations are beginning gradually, and we are
seeing signs of recovery. For that recovery that we see, we would like to securely capture those
opportunities so that we can improve this forecast from the forecast level that we have
announced.
Regarding North America, we have seen the start of the operation at some plants, and your
question was how long will it take for the full production. On reopening some of the productions,
we have been discussing about the safety guidelines with the federal governments, and also, we
have taken care to consider the safety and health of the workers in the plant. So, that will be the
big pre-condition to start the operation, and by making sure that those measures are in place, we
have started slowly to resume. At this point in time, we are not really sure when we will be in full
speed, full production. It is very difficult to say as of now, but our assumption is that we believe
April will be the bottom, and little by little, we will recover. By the end of the year and the
beginning of the new year, we believe that we will be in normal operation mode. That will be allOperator
Thank you very much, Mr. Sean McLain. Next question, please. Mr. Takezawa of Bloomberg please.
Q - Unverified Participant
I’m Takezawa from Bloomberg. I am repeating the same question, but I’d like to ask about the
supply chain management. With COVID-19, supply chain is somewhat damaged, and the
government is supporting the industries to return to the homeland or home nation for the
manufacturing activities. So, what is your acceptance of this issue, and also, what kind of activities
you are promoting for your supply chain management in the middle of the COVID-19? This is my
question.
A - `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer `
Thank you. I’d like to answer your question. You have given us just one question. As you said, for
the cutting down of the supply chain, there was much confusion this time, and each region or
globally, I should say, how we maintain and allocate the production volume in each of the regions
is what we have to deeply consider for the future because too much concentration in one single
place will pose a risk, which we have understood from this COVID-19. Alternative production
management have been contemplating what single production places will be needed in this
COVID-19 situation, and also, in communication bridging between the different manufacturing
places will become important together with the capability to find out the alternative production or
alternative suppliers as quickly as possible. There is support from the government, therefore
whether or not you can use the support from the government efficiently is something that we
would like to deeply consider for the management of supply chain.
Operator
Thank you very much, Ms. Takezawa, and next question please. From Financial Times, Ms. Inagaki
please. Ms. Inagaki, question please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Inagaki, speaking for Financial Times. Thank you. I would like to ask about the used car market in
the United States. For the used car value, we hear that the drop is very significant, equivalent to
the drop that we have seen after the financial crisis. How are you viewing this drop in the used car
market for your models, and you’ve seen a lot of disruption of the supply chain with COVID-19
and receiving this COVID-19 crisis for the safety of your workers in the production plant, I think it is
a big challenge to secure their safety. In this kind of environment, whether the production
operation will move toward further automation that would be my second question. Do you
foresee that?
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer `
Thank you for your question. First, regarding your question about US used car market and the
drop of the used car value and what kind of impact will that have on our financial service business,
as you have rightly said, in April, the used car market prices have dropped significantly. For us
especially in the US market, we have a large financial company TMCC. In the term that is running,
we have included/reflected assumption that there will be some drop in the used car prices. When
the used car prices dropped, lease residual value will also drop. So, it is from a financial
terminology, but the residual value loss will be increased with the drop in the used car prices. That
is what we expect. Going one term before, for the ended term in March and where we areclosing the financial results, we have already seen some signs of that happening. Therefore, last
term, for the term ended March 2020, for the financial service business, we had the provisions to
be prepared. In the financial service business, there was 60 billion impact from the COVID-19.
That was the explanation that I’ve made, so this is from the bad debt and nonperforming debts
and also the residual loss provisions increase. That is the impact. Those are reflected into the
current plan for this running term.
For your second question about automation at the plant, whether it will progress further at the
plants, we do assume that the society after this COVID-19 case will become toward more of a
society where we try to reduce physical contact as much as possible. Therefore, in our company,
it is not that we are discussing this from this opportunity, but from before, we have been
discussing about what will be the appropriate areas to automate. It will be discussed in those
discussions. Thank you very much.
Operator
We have some more questions, but because of the time limitation, we can entertain just one
more question. From Nikkei Cross Tech, please wait for your screen to come on the stage. Please
be patient. We are switching the screen. Mr. Chikaoka please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you. Regarding the R&D, to what extent you are doing remote work in R&D activities? Of
course, different from the real manufacturing world, maybe you have some communication
problems when you try to promote, work from home, for the R&D activities. That’s one thing, and
also, with the COVID-19, some things you have to change, some things you have to stop. You
have explained about those activities, but in the recent past, 3.22 million fuel cell pumps recall by
Denso took place. So, Toyota is famous for quality, Toyota car is famous for quality. However, as
of now, you have a problem of the quality actually taking place, so what is the problem according
to your analysis in terms of the quality of your products?
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer `
Thank you very much. So, your first question about delay of R&D against the target, so in
designing and in R&D, to what extent we are doing remote work or the work from home. This
was your question, and in reality, when it comes to the office workers, especially for the R&D or
designing, the work from home is heavily promoted as of today already, and of course, you have
to have on vehicle evaluation to the last minute of R&D. We still need that process. However, we
have CAD as a design tool, which can be used now remotely very efficiently. This kind of process
is going on very rapidly as of today. Therefore, designers and R&D engineers are able to handle
this function even at home. Well, I do not know the actual percentage of the remote work for the
R&D or designing activities, but I think it’s going on very heavily. Of course, you need a face-to-
face communication looking down on the same drawing paper at the last part of the design, but
how much digitalization or how much work from home can be promoted is something that we are
toying and discussing very deeply in each of the company.
Your second question, the things to stop, the things to continue or change with the COVID-19,
and you talked about what happened to the quality of the data vehicle. Something to change or
something to stop, we need these activities, but the thing that you can never stop is the activities
about the quality because the quality is important for the customers. This idea never changed,
and as for the recall that you have mentioned, we are very much sorry that we have given the
inconvenience to our customers. But our quality-first philosophy never changed and will neverOperator
Thank you. This is the end of my discussion. Thank you very much, Mr. Chikaoka, and this is the
end of the first part of the announcement of the financial performance and forecast. After the
break, we will be starting the second discussion from 2:10. Thank you.
[END]