Q1 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's Q1 2020 Results Presentation.
Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The Company
intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with respect to
the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca.
Although, we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very
nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and may be influenced by
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the
knowledge and information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no
obligation to update forward-looking statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking
statements disclaimer in the slide deck that accompanies this presentation and webcast.
I will now hand you over to the company.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `Hello, everyone. It's `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to our first quarter 2020
conference call and webcast for investors and analysts. As always, the presentation can be
downloaded from AstraZeneca.com, our website and we've also sent it to people on our
distribution list.
So if you can turn to Slide 2, this is an updated Safe Harbor statement. We will be making
comments on our performance using constant exchange rates or CER, core financial numbers
and other non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP data is contained
in the results announcement. And all numbers refer to million US dollars and for the first quarter
2020, unless we state otherwise.
Please turn to Slide 3. We plan to spend about half an hour on the presentation and then do Q&A
for the rest of the time. For those on the phone, please join in the queue for questions and
remember to press star one. There is also an option to ask questions as part of the webcast. I'd
like to ask you please to ask one question only. Thank you in advance for this.
Today, I'm joined by `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology, our Executive Vice President of Oncology; `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical Business Unit,
the EVP of BioPharmaceuticals; `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer, who is our CFO; `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D, our EVP of
Oncology R&D; `Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical R&D, our EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D; and also for the questions
later on, we have `Pam Cheng, Executive Vice President, Operations & IT, who is our Executive Vice President for Operations & IT; and Leon
Wang, who is our Executive Vice President who is responsible for China and the emerging
markets.
Please turn to Slide 4. This is the agenda where we plan to cover all key aspects of our
announcement today.
Moving on to Slide 5, the first quarter of 2020 was a robust start to the year and despite the
ongoing corona crisis and it was supported by strong business model and a good pipeline. Our
revenue, our total revenue advanced 17% and we estimate a low to mid single digit revenue
benefit from COVID-19. New medicines advanced by 49% and we saw continued strong progress
across all the CRP areas and in emerging markets and across all regions of the world.
The response to the COVID-19 pandemic has been strong and multifaceted and that included
repurposing medicines, also the discovery of new antibodies and -- as well as supporting, testing
and providing aid around the world as we could.
Our core operating profit grew by 16%, despite 19% lower operating income. With that, this
decline in operating income, the underlying profit growth is about 30%, so very strong underlying
business. With the tax rate of about 20%, our core EPS ended at $1.05, up 21% and with leverage
because it grew more than revenue.
So with those very strong first quarter results, we are reconfirming our guidance and we will be
covering this in more detail later in Marc's presentation. Overall, we continue to see strong
progress in the pipeline, in particular for the adjuvant use of Tagrisso, which we will talk about and
it's definitely a practice-changing dataset.
Moving to Slide 6, looking at the pipeline news flow since the results announcement in February 1
-- in February, sorry. I will only pick a few highlights. There were new approvals for Imfinzi and
Enhertu and Lokelma and a welcome to a brand new medicine Koselugo for the treatment of
children with neurofibromatosis type 1.
There was regulatory submission progress for a couple of medicines, hopefully bringing new
benefits to patients in the near future, in prostate cancer, but also in NF1. The highlights for Phase3 data readouts included the early trial unblinding for Tagrisso in the adjuvant setting and the
early start for Farxiga in chronic kidney disease.
Turning to Slide 5, the first quarter of 2020 was the sixth quarter with strong total revenue growth
following the return to growth in 2018. This was driven by the new medicines. Tagrisso alone
added more than $350 million in revenue with Imfinzi and Lynparza following suit. A number of
medicines added significant amount, each including Fasenra, Farxiga, Brilinta, and Calquence. The
total new medicines added to $1 billion and compared to first quarter growth is not coming from
a higher number of medicines, but it's further diversifying growth and sustainability of our
momentum.
Turn to Slide 8, please. The increased business diversification is clearly visible for oncology, which
now makes up 40% of product sales. Across AstraZeneca, specialty care now makes up close to
half of our business, bringing a balance to the company we intended to create with the new
strategy. We now have achieved this.
Another important balance is the one between established and emerging markets. Combined,
China and the other emerging markets make up 36% of sales, with growth in ex-China markets
of 16%, a new high point. The balance business across types of medicines, across CRP areas,
geographies makes AstraZeneca very strategically well positioned in the current environment and
we're prepared to remain a very important partner for healthcare systems in all countries globally.
Turning to Slide 9, our partnerships around the world are exactly what is required in the common
fight against COVID-19, the COVID-19 pandemic. Starting with the safety of our colleagues
around the world, we have enabled working from home for thousands of co-workers through
rapid redeployment of new technologies since January. There have been amendments made if
required to ongoing clinical trials to ensure patient safety. We also welcome humanitarian aid
which has helped keep front-line workers safe with donations of face masks and other protective
equipment and core to our purpose, there has been relentless focus on the continuity of care for
patients for their reliability of medicines and supplies.
R&D efforts are focused on reprocessing medicines like Calquence and Farxiga and new trials
have started to test their benefits on patients. New antibodies are in development and there
have been impressive responses to governments where -- when help was needed for testing
and screening. I'm really very pleased by the efforts undertaken by AstraZeneca and our more
than 70,000 colleagues around the world.
With this, I will hand over to Dave to cover our oncology business. So please turn to Slide 10. Over
to you, Dave.
`Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology `
Thank you, Pascal. Now a planned update on the performance of our oncology business before
handing over to Ruud for an update on BioPharmaceuticals and emerging markets.
We are pleased to report strong growth of 34% for our Oncology business, which is now
annualizing at $10 billion. We're seeing a regional expansion, particularly outside the United
States, as our key lifecycle effort start to take effect. The new launches are progressing very well
with additional news flow every quarter.
Please turn to Slide 11. Starting with our new lung cancer franchise, we are pleased to report that
both Tagrisso and Imfinzi demonstrated strong growth in the quarter at 58% and 57%,
respectively, with sales of $282 million and $462 million, respectively.Tagrisso is now approved in 81 countries in the first line setting and in the quarter we saw
continued expansion in countries securing national reimbursement, which now totals 20. US
Tagrisso sales were up 43% as demand continued and as we see a good level of penetration in
the front-line setting. We now see strong growth from Europe and emerging markets as these
reimbursements and launches take effect. Japan was impacted by the previously mentioned
price cut in November last year.
On Imfinzi, the majority of sales are still coming from the US at $286 million with a growth of 24%
as we've reached high levels of penetration in the Pacific Stage III non-small cell lung cancer
setting. We are now launching in the small-cell lung cancer CASPIAN indication through the US
following early approval this month. Outside of the US, we are starting to see the sales of Imfinzi
pick up, particularly in Europe and emerging markets with sales of about $75 million and $33
million. Japan delivered $56 million. The China launch of Pacific still happened in the first quarter
despite the COVID-19 pandemic and we anticipate NRDL negotiations for this to commence next
year.
Please turn to Slide 12. Lynparza demonstrated continued progress with sales of $397 million in
the quarter, up by 69%, with half of sales now coming from outside of the United States. This
reflected growth across all regions as we continued to roll out the breast and ovarian cancer
indications in the major markets of the US, Europe, and Japan.
US sales were $197 million, up by 66% with continued increase in demand as Lynparza maintained
its leadership in the PARP inhibitor market in both ovarian and breast cancer. Sales in Europe were
$102 million, up by 61%, driven primarily by first line ovarian cancer. And in emerging markets,
sales were up by 120% to $56 million, driven by the China launch and recent inclusion on the
NRDL. Japan sales amounted to $34 million with growth of 53%, driven by uptake in ovarian and
breast cancers. And we report a 14% price cut as of April this year.
Please turn to Slide 13. Now moving to the new launches Calquence in chronic lymphocytic
leukaemia and Enhertu in third-line HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, I'm very pleased to
report the Calquence sales of $88 million in the quarter, predominantly in the US with the new
label and CLL taking effect at the end of 2019. Launch feedback is quite encouraging as the Phase
3 data are resonating very well with physicians. We're encouraged to see expansion in our
prescriber base with around 60% of all new patient starts in CLL coming from new Calquence
prescribers. And about a third of hematologists have now prescribed Calquence. Also Calquence
has achieved approximately 25% share of BTKI new patient starts and CLL.
Following the Enhertu launch at the beginning of the year, we are pleased to have reported $14
million in collaboration revenue based on $30 million of sales by Daiichi Sankyo in the first quarter
of 2020. In the first quarter of launch, Enhertu has achieved approximately a 30% share in the
third line setting. Other launch metrics include about 800 accounts have been opened and about
1,000 patients have been treated so far. Initial feedback from physicians is strong as the safety
monitoring program in place and the management of key safety aspects is well understood.
Before ending, I would like to thank all of our oncology colleagues for what they do every day to
the benefit of patients and our company, particularly during these challenging times.
I'll now turn it over to Ruud for an update on our BioPharmaceuticals business and emerging
markets. Please turn to Slide 14.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical Business Unit `Thank you so much, Dave. Today I'm very pleased to talk to you about the BioBharmaceuticals
business. Total sales of biopharma comprising New Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism and
Respiratory & Immunology were $2.7 billion in the quarter, growing at 16%.
Starting with New CVRM, sales were up by 8% despite intense competition in diabetes with total
sales at $1.1 billion. Growth for both Farxiga and Brilinta continued with double-digit increases.
Farxiga reached $407 million in the quarter with 90% growth, maintaining volume and market
share leadership globally, while benefiting from the SGLT2 class drug.
In the United States, Farxiga saw a reduction of 14% as price declines took effect, though,
volumes continued to grow. Outside of the United States, which accounts for 72% of sales, we
saw strong performances with volume driven growth increasing. Europe sales were up by 34%
with strong volume growth, driven by the DECLARE cardiovascular outcomes data. Emerging
markets sales were up by 55% benefiting from the China NRDL listing.
Brilinta delivered sales of $408 million with 90% growth, driven by a strong performance in
emerging markets, up by 42%. We also had continuous growth in the US and Europe, up by 8%
and 15%, respectively. The majority of use is still in the acute setting and Brilinta continues to
outgrow the market in all regions.
Please turn to Slide 15. Turning to Respiratory & Immunology, we reported sales of $1.6 billion with
a 22% growth in the quarter, driven by Fasenra and Symbicort as well as some COVID-19 stocking.
Symbicort growth was strong in the quarter at $790 million with a growth of 36%. The US saw
particularly strong growth, up 76% to $310 million due to demand growth and inventory increases
at the partner, following the launch of the authorized generic. Globally, Symbicort remain the
leader in value and volume market share in the ICS/LABA class.
Pulmicort was stable in the quarter, with sales of $380 million due to an impact from the COVID-
19 pandemic and subsequent restrictions disrupting hospital, dispensations, particularly in China.
The company continues to focus on growing sales of Symbicort and other at-home solutions
ahead of Pulmicort.
Please turn to Slide 16. Now I will focus on the new launch medicines. Fasenra contributed $199
million of sales in the quarter, with the bulk continuing to come from the US, Germany, and Japan.
In the United States, Fasenra is performing very well against new competitors, up by 29% with
$120 million in sales. Europe and Japan sales were $46 million and $21 million, respectively, as
Fasenra continue to be the leading novel biologic medicine for severe uncontrolled asthma in
several countries.
The launch of Breztri for COPD is progressing well with reported sales of $4 million in the quarter
with launches taking place in Japan and recently in China. Regulatory reviews in the US and in the
EU are progressing with anticipated decisions in the second half of 2020.
Lokelma had sales of $11 million in the quarter, with sequential growth of 42% over the fourth
quarter of 2019 as the US launch continues and we maintain leadership in the new to brand
prescriptions. Approvals have also been obtained in China and in the EU, with launches
anticipated throughout the year.
On roxadustat, we reported collaboration revenue of $3 million coming from China sales,
following the initial launch and the recent NRDL inclusion.
Now I will move to the emerging markets. Please turn to Slide 17. Emerging markets where sales
grew by 16% in the quarter continued to track ahead of our long-term performance ambition,which is to grow sales on average by mid to high single digit percentage. Outside China, total
revenue was up by 15%, with growth spread across the regions. China delivered stable growth of
70% as we saw some impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic. The addition of Lynparza, Farxiga
and roxadustat to the NRDL effective January 2020 contributed to the sales performance. New
medicines grew by 87%, now contributing 29% of total sales in the region, with a strong
performance driven by Oncology and New CVRM.
With this, I will hand over to Marc. Please turn to Slide 18.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Ruud, and hello, everyone. I want to take you through our financial performance in the
first quarter as well as our financial priorities and our guidance for 2020.
Please turn to Slide 19. I will start with the reported P&L, before reviewing our core results. As
Pascal mentioned earlier, total revenues grew by 17% in the quarter, which included only a small
element of collaboration revenue. Reported operating expenses increased by 10%. On top of the
increase of core operating expenses that I will refer to in the following slides, part of the increase
was due to an intangible asset impairment for Bydureon.
Please turn to Slide 20. Moving to our core P&L, our gross margin ratio declined by 2 percentage
points to 78%, primarily reflecting the impact of one-off adjustment relative to Group inventory
and the growth in profit share from the collaboration with Merck in respect to Lynparza.
Core R&D expenses increased by 9% as we invested in Enhertu, another oncology medicine
while core SG&A expenses increased by 7%, driven by additional investment in the China
expansion and further support for global launches in oncology. Core other operating income of
$479 million primarily reflected the sale of legacy hypertension medicine, while our core tax rate
was 20%, in line with the indicated range for the full year. Finally, our core earnings per share
ended at $1.05 for the quarter, up by 21%, despite a 4% increase in the weighted average
number of shares.
Please turn to Slide 21. Turning to net debt and cash generation, our net debt has increased by
$2.5 billion since the end of last year to $14.4 billion. This was in line with our expectation given
then a first half since the payment of our final interim dividend. Encouragingly, there was a $526
million improvement in net cash from operations, reflecting an improved underlying business
performance and a reduced increase in working capital. The smaller improvement in cash inflow
before financing activities was driven by a decline in cash flows from the purchase of intangible
assets.
Please turn to Slide 22. This familiar slide demonstrates our progress. The 17% growth in total
revenue was converted into 21% growth in core earnings per share despite the increased number
of shares. Our grow operating margin also held up well at 29% even with the 19% reduction in
other operating income. Part of this was reflected by the fact that core operating expenses
represented 57% of total revenue versus 61% a year ago. This all add to demonstrate our early
progress on operating leverage. The improvements in our P&L will be accompanied by
announced cash generation over time, which will then help us deleverage our balance sheet
further and we will also focus on our progressive dividend policy.
Please turn to Slide 23. Finally, I will turn to guidance for 2020, which as I mentioned a moment
ago, is on total revenue and core earnings per share at constant exchange rate. Our guidance is
subject to the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and is based on recent trends in thebusiness. We will closely monitor developments and will provide you with an update at our interim
results.
In 2020, like in 2019, we are aiming to increase our operating leverage, driven by a high single
digit to low double digit percentage increase in total revenue. This is anticipated to drive growth
in core EPS of mid to high teens percentage increase. My confidence in our growth prospect is
supported by our continuous geographic expansion of pipeline and our commercial execution.
Our growth model is robust and the investment case is unchanged. This isn't the time for
complacency, but we have the energy and momentum to consistently deliver for patients and our
shareholders.
With that, I will now hand over to Jose. Please turn to Slide 24.
`Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Marc, and hello, everyone. I will provide an update on our oncology medicines since
our last call. Today, I am joined by `Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical R&D who will discuss BioPharmaceuticals and
upcoming news flow.
Please turn to Slide 25. I'll now focus on our recent oncology achievements. I'll be moving from
left to right. On the left, the CASPIAN Trial final analysis confirmed that Imfinzi in combination with
a choice of standard of care chemotherapy in the first-line setting saw a substantial clinically
meaningful overall survival benefit in extensive stage small cell lung cancer. The indication saw its
first approval in Singapore, shortly followed by approval in the US. The potential for combination
with cisplatin or carboplatin and its favorable dosing regime provides more options for patients
with this highly aggressive type of lung cancer.
If we focus in the middle, our MEK 1/2 inhibitor Koselugo was approved in the US for the
treatment of pediatric neurofibromatosis type 1 patients who have symptomatic inoperable
plexiform neurofibromas following positive results from the Phase 2 SPRINT Stratum 1 trial.
Koselugo is the first-ever approved medicine for children living in the US with plexiform
neurofibromas to help them manage the incredibly complex and severe manifestations of their
disease.
And then if we move to the right. Finally, for Tagrisso, we had an unprecedented two year
unblinding of the ADAURA trial following IDBC recommendation based on overwhelming efficacy.
ADAURA is a Phase 3 trial for Tagrisso in the adjuvant treatment of patients with the Stage 1B, 2
and 3 EGFR mutated non-small cell lung cancer with complete tumor resection and optional
standard postoperative chemotherapy. This is the first global trial for EGFR mutated non-small cell
lung cancer to show benefit in this setting, offering patients a potential for cure. We will now
quickly pursue regulatory submissions in order to make the greatest difference to patients lives
globally. We are also aiming to present the results of ADAURA in an upcoming medical
conference.
Please turn to Slide 26, please. Finally, I would like to take you through a quick update on our
progress on a couple of our exciting new oncology medicines in earlier development. So, what
you see here is that what's next and what's now. If we go to the what's next, I'd like to focus
today on our continuous commitment to breast cancer, highlighting our short inhibitor AZD9833.
This compound has been presented at the AACR meeting earlier this week and we will be
sharing our plans for an extensive and ambitious program for the medicine in breast cancer at a
later date.If we now move to the what's now for our antibody-drug conjugate Enhertu, we can confirm that
we will be showcasing exciting data in non-small cell lung cancer in gastric and in colorectal
cancer, all at this year's ASCO. We look forward to update you on the progress of these
medicines and others in the near future.
With this, I will hand over to Mene. Please turn to Slide 27, please.
`Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical R&D `
Thank you, Jose, and hello to everyone on today's call. This quarter we announced the Farxiga
Phase 3 trial DAPA-CKD would also be stopped early after demonstrating overwhelming efficacy
in treating chronic kidney disease. With the success of this trial, there are an additional 2.7 million
CKD patients in the US with heart failure, who could potentially be treated with Farxiga. It's
important to note that currently only 12% of qualifying Stage 3 CKD patients are formally
diagnosed in the United States. Alongside our recently launched roxadustat and Lokelma, our
revolving renal franchise is now really well positioned to provide a variety of treatment options for
patients with CKD worldwide. Farxiga is now the first SGLT2 inhibitor to show clinically meaningful
benefits in three distinct patient groups; patients with diabetes, patients with heart failure, and
now, patients with chronic kidney disease.
Please turn to Slide 28. We're also taking the opportunity to expand and rename our respiratory
therapy area to Respiratory & Immunology. This change reflects the increasing number of
immunology indications we have in our pipeline and the acknowledgment of the shared pathways
and disease drivers across therapy areas.
For example, seven of our multi-disease franchises, including for Fasenra, tezepelumab, and
MEDI3506, our anti-IL-33 monoclonal antibody all have potential across both respiratory and
immunology indications. This slide shows the extensive lifecycle management program we have
launched the Fasenra across a variety of respiratory and immunology indications, most recently,
enhanced by trials in atopic dermatitis, chronic spontaneous urticaria and bullous pemphigoid.
Please turn to Slide 29. And now for an update for biopharma and what's next in our pipeline. I'd
like to highlight a couple of new programs. In CVRM, we have AZD2373 which is targeting
apolipoprotein L1 or APOL1 for short. This is the gene with variance related to an increased risk of
early onset kidney disease and rapid progression thereof.
And in respiratory and immunology, we have AZD0449. This is a selective inhaled JAK inhibitor,
which targets a number of immunological drivers important in asthma. Throughout the year, we
look forward to updating you on progress of these and other medicines and other exciting
potential disease modifiers.
Please turn to Slide 30. I'll now take you through some key items of upcoming news flow in the
next quarter across the oncology and biopharma pipeline. In oncology, for Lynparza, we are
anticipating regulatory decisions in the US for both the PAOLA-1 and PROfound data submissions
for first line ovarian cancer and second line prostate cancer, respectively.
We also expect to have a regulatory decision in China for Lynparza use in BRCA mutated breast
cancer. Also, in the second quarter, we will commence regulatory submissions for Enhertu in
gastric cancer. In biopharmaceuticals, we are expecting a regulatory decision for Farxiga's
DECLARE label update in China as well as a regulatory decision on the submission of DAPA HF for
Farxiga in heart failure in the US. We're also expecting a regulatory decision for Bevespi in China
for the treatment of COPD. And finally, for the second quarter of this year, we are anticipating
submitting a regulatory application in the EU for Symbicort use in mild asthma.With that, I'll now hand back to Pascal for closing comments.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mene. Before the Q&A session, I will leave this slide for a few moment, the Slide 32,
for a few moments as a summary of the strategic achievement. Our global presence, balanced
specialty and primary care and a leading presence in the emerging markets also with significant
R&D, one of the -- I mean, define our global presence.
Secondly, we have a very strong pipeline with 17 Phase 3 medicine and a significant number of
lifecycle projects and as you heard today, a lot more coming in the early and mid-stage pipeline.
And finally, our third key message here is, our financials are improving and we've delivered on our
goals and we are very much on track with what we said we would achieve. There is a number of
new medicines and non-blockbuster products. We have returned to sustainable revenue and
earnings growth and we are now focused on operating leverage and cash flow.
So let's move now to Q&A. For those on the phones, please remember to press star one to ask a
question. We also take written questions from the webcast. Can I please remind everyone to limit
questions to be fair to all? Limit yourself to one question. Thank you in advance for this and
perhaps now we can take the first question from the conference call and I believe the first
question is from `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn. Simon, go ahead.
Questions And Answers
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thanks for taking my question. The question is on COVID and its impact. I think, you were the only
pharma company by virtue of your late reporting for full year did actually included a negative
impact from COVID and so far in what's been a strong quarter, we've only seen a benefit, albeit
one that may unwind later in the year. So I just wonder if you could update us on how things are
tracking against that guidance expectation. Are there underneath the net positive, any negative
areas, any factors which still lead you to leave the guidance at this stage intact?
And also related to that, for you, Pascal, I just wonder if you could give us a flavor of the change in
perception of Astra, specifically pharma in general that you've seen from your discussions with
governments around the world through this crisis. It seems that the pharma is once again being
seen most part of the solution than the problem. And I just want to see how that's manifesting
itself in your discussions over this period. Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Simon, thank you for that. I assume you're referring to the full year on the guidance as opposed
to the quarter one because in Q1 we do have an upside.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Yes.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, sure. So I'll ask Marc to add some color to this, but my first response to your question is,
there is a lot of unknowns about this crisis, of course. We see a lot of reduction of visits to doctors
around the world, not only in China, but also now in Europe and in the US. And our expectation isdelayed. But some of it is not going to come back because patients, for instance, who would miss
the treatment of chronic condition or would start their cancer treatment a bit later. So there is we
think a potential and we will give you more -- a further update at the half year, but at this point,
we see a potential downside to this.
On the other hand, we have upside. And one of the main ones is the ADAURA, of course,
because we expected the Tagrisso ADAURA in 2022 and it came very early. And I'm sure we will
want to talk more about this later, but it is definitely an upside. And so, all in all, we think all of this
would balance itself out. And today, we believe it is prudent to reconfirm our guidance and also
signal that the balance of risks and benefits and upsides and downside is to the downside a little
bit out of this crisis. I think, we should be realistic with the impact it has on the patients going to
see their physician. So that's one part of the equation.
The second and I'll go back to Marc in a second to add some further color, but specifically the
second part is, yes, I think this crisis has definitely shown that pharma is part of the solution in
many cases. I mean, in that instance, it really is very obvious to everybody that -- everybody is
waiting for vaccine or treatment and clearly a strong pharma sector is important to be able to
deliver those. And I think people are realizing this, but hopefully, this is something that helps in
the future, also the people start looking at this a bit differently, because quite frankly, we have
always been part of the solution.
When you give patients Farxiga and you stop them from being hospitalized for heart failure, you
saved money. Not only you improve lives, you save lives, but you save healthcare systems a lot of
money, because hospitalization costs are high. So I think this has been the story and the message
the industry has been trying to get across, but not well heard I have to say. Hopefully, this crisis
helps a little bit. People see us in a different light.
Back to your first question, Marc, anything you want to add?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
No. Maybe just thank you, Simon, for the question. Maybe to just reiterate what we have
presented today and also maybe explain how we do our scenario planning. So first of all, for the
quarter results, we have a growth rate of 17% and we have identified the stocking and improved
adherence and compliance of patients. We are representing a low to mid single percentage, so
you need to take the underlying growth probably 3% or 4% under the 17%, so still remaining
either at 13% or 14%, very good.
On the rest of the year, we are -- and for COVID-19 scenario planning, we envisage two
scenarios, which we see are the most likely; a three months continuation of the crisis or six
months. So we are looking at these two scenarios and we believe that these are the most likely
scenario.
And then a by computing of these two scenarios, we have reconfirmed and we believe that we
can leave all guidance unchanged for total revenue high single digit and low double digit
percentage growth. So that is the way this is constructed. Obviously, we monitor this constantly
and we would provide for second quarter results at the end of July. We will provide the best
update that we can at that time. We just anticipated -- in February, we anticipated the impact on
the Chinese business, which I think wasn't too far off, but we had not anticipated then the
expansion to the rest of the world of COVID-19 crisis.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `Last quick point, Simon, on your question is, we sell medicines that treat chronic conditions. And
so chronic conditions are less affected actually because people -- patients have the medicines at
home, they keep taking them. And then we sell cancer medicines and cancer is a severe disease,
of course, it need to be treated. And in that, we sell all medicines. All in all, we tend to be less
affected by the crisis, but still, I think it is responsible thing to acknowledge that there has to be
some negative impact, limited hopefully, but some negative impact overall which we of course
cover with some of the upside we have. And so that's all I would say.
We'll move to the next question by `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Good afternoon. It's `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Just following up from Simon's question
actually and specifically focusing on emerging markets, the performance is clearly very strong in
the face of the COVID pandemic. Growth rate in line with last year. China is 17% growth versus
35% last year. So specifically, could you help us understand the impact of COVID in Q1 on China
where the new normal is emerging? It would be useful maybe to understand the demand cycle
that Pulmicort has gone through in China in Q1 appear to be significantly down by about 54% in
February as you've switched Pulmicort across to Symbicort outside the hospital setting.
And could you help us frame the outlook for 2020 in China where you continue to invest? And if I
could squeeze in just this week, the NHSA released draft guidelines on the pricing and
procurement of drugs under NRDL. So it appears the objective here is to engage manufacturers
on older medicines covered by NRDL on sort of centralized procurements and potential sort of
price negotiation. So sort of framing that with the China question would be useful to get your
thoughts on that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks, Mark. I will ask Leon to cover this one. Leon, can you address it?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, Emerging Markets `
Yeah, I think emerging market in quarter one continued to show resilience especially in China. I
think in quarter one, China is impacted by this COVID-19 definitely. I think two major products,
Nexium and IV injection mainly for hospital usage and also Pulmicort for the pediatric asthma
nebulization center and these two part of business, there is no patient visit and no surgery
happening in the hospital, almost two months. And all these things are actually recovering now in
the month of March, even though not fully, but it's very partially, step by step gradually. So
towards the end of April, we still see a partial hospitalization and a patient needs to go through
COVID-19 testing before they are even hospitalized. Necessary surgeries are still postponing
every day, but still not yet fully recovered. So we expect in late quarter two, early quarter three,
there will be full rebound of surgery and outpatient department visit. So this is about China.
China performance is actually really exciting and a 16% emerging market performance is
historical, so emerging market is not just about China. And Russia, Middle East growth and also
Saudi and North Africa and Latin America, Brazil, Argentina and also Mexico, Korea, I think we
have a lot of strong growing countries. So most of the markets in the emerging market are
growing double-digit. So we maintain quite optimistic on the low double-digit growth in the
emerging market. And also, in China, we are continuing investing for new launches. And last year,
we have three new drug inclusion, roxadustat and Forxiga and Lynparza, very important
reimbursement inclusion. So we are now rolling out and getting hospital listing for all these three
products.And we are launching three new products during the virus and Imfinzi is exciting and Breztri also
very, very major product for inhalation, which is the most important product to mitigate the long-
term risk of Pulmicort in China. So -- and we will continue investing in China. Expansion and also
launching new products quickly successfully in China and the VBP is something that definitely is
happening now. In quarter one, we already have Iressa and also Iressa VBP and also Crestor VBP
actually hitting also our top line. But even though with this COVID-19 and some VBP impacting
quarter one, we are showing resilience. I hope we can show good performance in the second half
of this year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Leon. Just as an example, our share was up 66% in Q1 at CER. So I'd like to really
congratulate our team for doing a beautiful job.
Next question is `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berneberg at Berneberg. Luisa, over to you.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berneberg `
Hello, thank you for taking my questions. I'd love to hear a bit more on Tagrisso. Pascal, it sounds
like you're thinking it may even contribute to 2020 sales, the ADAURA study. So just to check on
the timing of filing and potential approval, how you see the markets, especially with the labeling
in the metastatic patients already. So do you see adjuvant and metastatic as two discrete patient
groups, i.e., what proportion of metastatic patients have already had adjuvant therapy? And any
comments on price as you move into a broader patient group. And if I can also just ask one more
because I noticed in the press release in terms of adapting to the COVID era, you talk about
SG&A collaborating with each pharmacies and also new platforms investing to communicate with
healthcare professionals. So would love to hear a little bit more color on those? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. So the first question Tagrisso, I will ask Dave to cover it. It's clear actually that we saw that
we are not promoting off-label, but it's also clear that we're going to present this data at the
medical conference this year and we know very well in oncology, physicians tend to follow data,
but it's of course very clear we cannot promote until we get the indication.
Dave, can you cover the Tagrisso question and for SG&A, I'll ask Leon to talk about e-pharmacy
and e-platforms and also Ruud could step in on that one. Go ahead, Dave.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology `
Absolutely. Thank you, Pascal. So, Luisa, on your question, we're clearly thrilled about the data
from ADAURA and as Pascal mentioned, we're really looking forward to sharing as soon as
possible at an upcoming Congress. Today, EGFR TKIs are only used in the metastatic setting. And
one of the questions you asked was around, what percent of the patients are metastatic but are
de novo versus having been treated in the adjuvant setting. The overwhelming majority of
patients are de novo. Unfortunately, in lung cancer, it's one of the reasons that we see such a
dismal survival rates actually within the disease.
We don't see EGFR TKIs used in the resectable stage 1b through 3a setting. And about 30% of
patients are diagnosed within the setting. So I think that in large part, we should see that this is a
new additive patient population. It's not one that likely will lead to too much cannibalization. I do
think it's important to keep in mind that a considerable amount of education and promotional
work is going to need to take place, so testing is not a standard within this early setting. So EGFRtesting today is not the norm. That's something certainly that we're going to have to be a part of
driving. Active surveillance post surgery is also something that today is happening as a
therapeutic strategy, if you will, for a number of patients. So we're going to really need to ensure
that there is an imperative to treat with Tagrisso post surgery or post chemotherapy following
surgery.
And then finally, there is education on longer durations. We don't know yet what the duration of
therapy median was within the ADAURA study. We will obviously see those data when we present
them out, but we know that the study itself had longer duration, three year as part of the
protocol. So the extent to which that's a longer duration, then what we're seeing in the metastatic
setting in terms within the study that will also require work on compliance and adherence to that
longer timeframe.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Leon and then maybe Ruud.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, Emerging Markets `
Yeah, I think during this COVID-19 pandemic, we see the trend of digital platform widely used. I
don't think after this virus and it will become a new norm, that the doctor were used to digital
platform. So digital platforms are very good to do a doctor education. So just to give an example.
In China, we have a disease, but not a product portal, that attract millions of doctors visiting the
portal to get information. So it will become more and more popular that doctors get information
instead of face to face meeting, switching to online resources.
Also we are organizing a COVID-19 cross country physician experience sharing on how to treat
diseases in the background of COIVD-19 and how to manage COVID-19 patients. So every online
webcasting, we are attracting 50,000 to 100,000 doctors across the countries everywhere,
Europe, US and also emerging market and also China. So -- and during the virus, we find very
useful digital tools connecting doctors and patients. So some of the digital tool is using robots to
help the doctors and nurses talking to patients, handling simple questions. And these are quite
useful digital tools. We think that will continue even after the virus, very efficient.
And online pharmacy, AstraZeneca is actually working with a lot of online pharmacies in order to
help the patients to get their prescription review without visiting a doctor to create unnecessary
crowd of people in the hospital. So after this virus, I think all the governments are paying a lot of
attention to not just for convenience purposes, but also for within hospital infection, crossing
packaging purpose, so (inaudible) will become also popular.
And another thing is the Internet hospital and the patients -- during the virus, actually more
patients affected by -- not by the virus, but by their normal disease that they are no longer going
to do consulting and also to do surgery. So Internet hospital will also become a very, very viable
thing. And also the government also I see encouraging Internet hospital, making doctors
consulting their patients and also having some set in the prescription and even first prescription
starting to discuss -- to be discussed in the policy. So I think all these three things will be quite a
prospect after this COVID-19.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical Business Unit `
Okay. And thank you so much, Leon. Of course, based on the learnings of -- in China, we have
been able to quickly roll out the more detail into most of our physicians around the world
because of the phenomenal effort of our IT and digital teams in our company in order to help ourfield forces around the world in order to stay in contact with their physicians. And in some cases, it
has been extremely successful, in other cases, depending on the severity of the disease in a
certain country, of course it's less easy.
And some of that we are working on a number of areas to optimize care. For example, we are
rolling our home based treatments, medicine delivery solutions, we're working with other
companies in order to do that. And just to give you a little bit of flavor about the impact and the
importance of digital platforms, recently we hosted a meeting about COVID-19 with 45,000
HCPs from 90 countries on a conference call led by Pascal himself and that has been extremely
well received by physicians around the world. So we are doing everything in order to stay in close
contact with our prescribers and to help them to navigate through these very difficult times. Back
to you, Pascal.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. So the next question is about tezepelumab. `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPMorgan.
James, go ahead. Sounds like we don't have James. Maybe we move to the next question and
we will return to James a little bit later, probably again later. `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research at Wolfe Research.
Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. I'd like to go back to Tagrisso and get an update on where you are with getting first
line lung on NRDL, what your latest thinking is and also via ADAURA trial results, does that help
you secure NRDL in first line lung just by creating even more of a halo effect around that brand?
And then does ADAURA itself lend itself to NRDL listing in China eventually, or do you think that's
a long shot? Then on Calquence, if I could ask a couple of questions.
Q - `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan `
I think your Q4 slide decks noted you're capturing 60% of US CLL new patient starts. And then in
this most recent slide deck, I think you said it's a quarter of new patient starts. It may have just
been the way you phrase it, maybe there is no change, but it seems like it's a different number.
And then also on Calquence, if you can just mentioned, it's used as a therapeutic in COVID. The
reason I ask is only because I heard Head of NIH actually call out Acalabrutinib in a discussion that I
participated in, and I was kind of surprised to hear it. But I know you're running a trial there and I
don't know if that was just an off the cuff mention, or if there is actually some promising activity
that you've seen in the treatment for COVID.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tim. We will try to be fast, but let's start with the last question actually, Jose could cover
it, Calquence and its potential use in COVID immuno responses. Then we move up to the
Calquence -- the other Calquence question that we cover it and we'll -- and then maybe Dave
you could hand over to Leon for the Tagrisso China question.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you very much, Pascal. So on the Calquence question for COVID-19. Francis Collins, I was on
that call the NIH Director was commenting on data that they have from the NIH that is very
positive. So I guess what he was commenting was on his own data and this data has made us
really go so far forward. So we have this full program now that we are launching with clinical
studies in the US, in the UK, in the rest of Europe. And basically the data shows that CalquenceBTK inhibition interferes with one of the main mechanisms of respiratory failure which if the
cytokine storm is fully prevented. So we are very, very hopeful.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose. Dave?
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology `
Sure. So, Tim, just in terms of -- for the clarification on your question on the numbers, in Q4, what
we had said was that 60% of the new patient starts in CLL are coming from new to Calquence
prescribers, which is the same as when we say 60% of demand from prescribers are new to
Calquence. The point that we're trying to make here is that when we take a look all of the scripts
that we're getting in CLL, that we see that we're actually getting new prescribers to the brand.
So it's not just the MCL physicians and prescribers, but we're getting new prescribers and that's
important because it means that we're making inroads into the community and so the 60% from
Q4 is the same as the 60% that we're sharing here. On the new patient start dimension, what I
talked about in my remarks is that we've achieved now -- we're one in four new starts for BTKis in
CLL, our Calquence new starts and that's up slightly from where it was within the fourth quarter.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Leon, Tagrisso NRDL?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, Emerging Markets `
Yeah, I think definitely (technical difficulty) So definitely we will be applying for NRDL first line,
because we already have the indication FLAURA in China and we are already penetrating first-line
patients. We have a patient affordability program in place on top of our already quite attractive
reasonable pricing for second line reimbursable price. So I think both second line is doing well.
Second line is doing well in the reimbursement situation and still penetrating while the first anti-
care market is continually expanding, replacing chemotherapy in the market.
So with the VBP of all the major first-line TKI happening, so second-line market is getting bigger
and bigger and also first-line I think with PAP will be penetrating already self paid patients before
NRDL and we definitely will talk with government about NRDL and we are waiting for the new
negotiation policy for this round of NRDL. And adjuvant ADAURA result, of course that result is
exciting and definitely will add a weight to our application, but of course it's largely dependent on
when we will get approval for this new indication.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Leon. So the next question, maybe we could return to actually `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPM.
James, I think you're online, do you want to ask your question?
Q - `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hello. Yes, `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. And thanks a lot for your patience that I wasn't there
partly before. Two questions, please. The first was on teze. So you get the Phase 3 results in Q4
and if you look to the Phase 2, it could be the best and broadest efficacy for the asthma
biologics, but to what extent this be cannibalizing Fasenra and there you've got the full rights
rather than the half the economics. Would that complicate things with Amgen and how that works
with promotion. So that's the first question please. And if I could just squeeze in a secondquestion, which would be, so Tagrisso - ADAURA had been stopped for overwhelming efficacy in
the resectable patients is a great news. What can we extrapolate from that in the -- if you've
shown very strong efficacy there, can we read that through to the LAURA study in the
unresectable population? Could that be a similarly big opportunity as well? And how should we
now think about that study, please?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James. Could I ask Mene to cover the teze question and then Jose, the Tagrisso
question?
A - `Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical R&D `
Sure, I can take. I guess Ruud will be able to cover cannibalization from a commercial perspective,
Pascal. But ultimately we see teze as having a different profile in terms of the types of patients it
can treat. As you know, Fasenra is in -- highest in the patients and we'd see tezepelumab as
being in a broader population. So we think scientifically we will be able to separate the two. I
don't know whether Ruud wants to talk about commercially how we'll do that or not?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical Business Unit `
Yeah. First of all, as always, James, we need to see the data. What we know from Fasenra is that
the data set in the eosinophilic asthma population is incredibly strong and we are showing that in
real life as well. So the hurdle is high, but in the end of the day what is best for patients will be
embraced by physicians. But I think the huge opportunity clearly for tezepelumab is also to go to
the low eosinophilic asthmatics where there is a high unmet medical need or the allergic
asthmatics. So we have high expectations, but of course, it all depends on the outcome of the
NAVIGATOR trial, which we will readout in the second half of 2020.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. I mean, you should also remember, James, that, if necessary, we can have
separate sales forces promoting the two agents separately and that's been done before. We've
done it before with other -- in other therapeutic crisis. So it's no issue. Either we find a way to
position the two or we don't and we maximize both agents. So then you would be fully behind
tezepelumab to make it a success with our partners at Amgen.
So the next question was about Tagrisso. Jose, it's for you I think.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah, absolutely. So the question is on LAURA. That is the Tagrisso study in locally advanced
unresectable. So basically the data on a ADAURA clearly gives ASH and the world and the
patients higher confidence that LAURA will be positive. Just the way I think about that is that
LAURA is sandwiched in between the first-line metastatic, which is highly positive and now the
early disease that is highly positive. So, LAURA somehow represents the completion of this path
of Tagrisso positivity, so we are very hopeful.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jose. That was very quick. Thank you so much for that. So the next question is Andrew
Baum at Citi. Andrew, over to you.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `Thank you. So just going back to the one in four new patient start in Calquence, which is perhaps
a more impressive number than I may have expected. Could you just outline where these are
coming from? Is this in -- if you could see coming from community oncologists, is it driven by
heavy sampling, is it driven by belief in a lower adverse event? So anything you could reflect in
terms of the commercial incentives as well as the drivers of selection of it rather than a very well
established agent for naive patients?
And then, second on EGFR, you referenced the challenges for testing and initiating therapy with
Tagrisso in the adjuvant setting. On duration, how are you thinking about managing, keeping
patients on drug, because three years is a very long time both from an adverse event
perspective, but also from a reimbursement perspective. So perhaps, you could help me
understand whether the exposure to Medicare of the US patient population is identical for this
earlier disease cohort compared to the metastatic setting? I'm assuming it is, I'm obviously asking
from a Medicare reimbursement friction point of view.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Andrew. So, Dave, two important questions for you.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology `
So let me start first Andrew with the Calquence question. In terms of where we're seeing the
share coming from in some of the commercial efforts on Calquence, I think that first and
foremost, as I had mentioned, we are seeing good expansion of Calquence utilization happening
outside of the MCL utilization base. And so that means that we're getting increased penetration
into the community. MCL treaters were more largely concentrated in your academic centers. We
are certainly seeing for sure that we are getting utilization with -- in those centers. But also in its
expansion that's happening into the community.
And I think that there is a couple of reasons for that. I think one of them is that we have expanded
our promotional efforts to really make sure that we've got the ability to be able to reach those
physicians within the community in the way that we need to. I think secondly, in the community,
finite treatments have had some greater challenges in being able to make inroads, just given
some of the challenges around administration. I think, lastly, and most importantly, the profile of
Calquence is one that has really resonated well with physicians. I think that the efficacy is seen as
absolutely uncompromised. And I think that the tolerability and safety profile is seen as one that's
quite favorable. One of the things we hear a lot from the physicians is if they tried in two patients
that that's more than enough to convince them that this is a great drug.
Turning on to the question around Tagrisso, we do see a similar composition of patients in terms
of mix within Medicare in the adjuvant setting as we do in the metastatic setting. Though, of
course, obviously you get some earlier diagnosis within this that's going to be part of this as well.
Jose, I think that you had thought that maybe there was something you wanted to add on the
duration of therapy component?
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, thank you very much, Andy. So I think the question is a very good one and I think, you're
coming from the point of view that classically in the adjuvant setting in breast cancer, compliance
has been poor, but although we don't know what's going to happen here, I think that the stakes
are so high. The benefit is of such magnitude that basically I think physicians and patients will be
aware of the need to stay on. So this is a very different situation. You are facing an adjuvantsetting that is totally unheard of in which you can have dramatic benefit. So I think, in my mind,
we'll have to see how it plays off. But when you have such a good benefit risk ratio, this will
encourage patients to stay on. That's my take.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose. So the next question is Sam Fazeli at Bloomberg, who is asking, do you expect an
uptick in US Farxiga in the second half given by the new data and also when will you have
Calquence and Farxiga COVID-19 data. So maybe, Jose, since you were talking, you could further
the Calquence timeline for the question. And then, we'll ask Ruud to cover the US Farxiga
question.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah. So the timeline is going to be short. As we mentioned, the strategy in the US, in the UK and
in other European countries will start anytime now. So -- and there is unfortunately not shortage of
patients. So it ought to be very fast. Now I don't know for sure what the unit of measure, I would
say short. I would hope we're talking about few months, two or three months rather than longer
than that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And, Ruud, US Farxiga?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical Business Unit `
Yes, of course, Pascal. So first of all, we have seen very promising first results of Farxiga with the
DECLARE indication which is more the prevention part of heart failure. Of course we are eagerly
waiting for the end result of the registration or approval for DAPA HF and then on top of that,
recently we were able to stop a study much earlier than expected ofdapagliflozin in CKD. So all in
all, we are clearly expecting an uptake of Farxiga from a volume perspective.
Equally, the SGLT2 class is growing very healthy, as we speak, in the United States. And based on
all those new indications, we have also been able to secure a better access. So we have quite
strong expectations for Farxiga moving forward in the United States. And as soon as the COVID-
19 pandemic is a little bit behind us, of course, we will go full force with our field force and other
tools in order to convince doctors about the added value for Farxiga for the cardiovascular
patients clearly and in the future also for their chronic kidney disease patients.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. So the next question is Sachin at Bank of America
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
`Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Couple of questions, please. Firstly, just back to Tagrisso and
adjuvant. I think the last time you gave peak sales sort of framework for Tagrisso was couple of
assays ago, $4 billion. Consensus is clearly ahead of that already at 6 and that was pre-adjuvant
with upside being (inaudible) I was wondering if you could just frame how you're thinking about
your prior peak sales opportunity and whether Tagrisso across all indications can now become in
the high single-digit billion type assets? And if it is trending in that direction, how does having a
high single digit billion oral small molecule oncology product which I would assume would be at a
high-margin, impact your prior margin expectations in the 30s?Second question, if I could go back to Jose on the SERD and data at AACR, obviously there's a lot
of SERD that (inaudible) perspective how do you see yours is differentiated? Any high level
points? Then a quick clarification question for Marc on inventory in the quarter. Thank you for the
color on inventory from COVID being low to mid single digits. I just wanted to check whether that
included the Symbicort stocking or the Symbicort stocking is in addition to that, and if you could
clarify what that Symbicort stock was? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sachin. So maybe the first question goes to Dave, about Tagrisso. I'll just say on the
margin side that anything -- any product like Tagrisso that is indeed profitable will help. That's all
we can say on the margin side. In terms of peak sales and how we see the potential of ADAURA,
Dave, do you want to give us some color on this one.
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology `
Yeah, just very quickly, Sachin, what I would say is that the size of the patient population is about
75% today of the size of the metastatic patient population in front-line. We know that the duration
is longer and we expect that we will certainly outside of the United States need to anticipate
impact to price. So that's how I would think about the components. And so certainly it becomes
much larger than $4 billion to $5 billion. But we're doing the same work you are and figuring out
how those three dimensions all factor into the total number.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Before we get to the last question which is really for Jose, could I ask actually
the inventory question? Could I ask Pam to jump in and then comment on our inventory
management and also how we have been dealing with the upsurge in demand, especially in
respiratory products. And then maybe Marc would add some color. Pam, go ahead.
A - `Pam Cheng, Executive Vice President, Operations & IT `
Yes, absolutely. Thank you, Pascal. Thanks for the question. So we have clear order management
processes in place across our key markets to manage these situations. Indeed, in first quarter, we
saw some increased demand in Q1. In particular, our portfolio in respiratory as well as for
Calquence. We monitor closely of the order patterns and take the appropriate measures to make
sure that we balance our supply across our customers here. Just quickly on our respiratory
portfolio, as we see the increased demand, we are absolutely now taking steps to ramp up our
capacity. So we stand really well prepared to ensure supply in terms of anticipated demand as
well as any potential upside.
Back to you, Pascal.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Pam. Marc, can you cover on the financial aspect of this?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Sachin, just to answer your very precise question, is the Symbicort stocking included in the
stocking of COVID-19, the answer is yes. There may be -- I can bring another perspective. We also
have launched and also our generic in the United States, and this -- there is obviously deliveries to
the generic company, this is not included in the COVID-19 stocking because this is a differentchannel. But the Symbicort stocking is included in the COVID-19 stocking that we have described
in our press release.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marc. And the last question, Jose.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you very much. On the surge, the question on how our surge is differentiated, that's a
difficult question because really the only way to do that would be by head to head comparisons.
What we have presented at AACR this year is that our compound has superb inhibitory effects
and varying effects on different receptors. We have also shown fantastic bioavailability and the
capacity to be able to dose once a day. And also we have now finalized our Phase 1 study and we
are enrolling in our Phase II. So our commitment and that's what I said and I've been happy to
provide updates in the future is that we are going at full speed with a very comprehensive
program and we are very hopeful. And I think time will tell how the whole area of starts -- shirts
ships out.
Operator
Thank you, Jose. The next question is my Michael at UBS. Go ahead.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. It's `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Just one left for me, please. Going back to Symbicort
and China, I think it's for Ruud and Leon. In the past you've talked about how the product goes
into the acute setting, into the maintenance setting, so just going all the way back to the
beginning of the Q&A session. When we think about the pressure that we saw with Pulmicort in
China, how much of the Q1 performance with Symbicort is actually replacing that pressure and
how much of it is actually it moving into the maintenance setting, which may be more sustainable
in the longer run? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Leon, first response.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, Emerging Markets `
Yeah, actually Pulmicort business in China is actually focusing on age -- pediatric asthma patients
exacerbation, age below six. So Symbicort is more focusing on age above six. So Symbicort has
huge untapped potential on the COPD adult market and also in the asthma maintenance market,
because people still use it as a reliever, using as needed kind of usage rather than the kind of
maintenance. But of course the Symbicort performance is also a good double-digit growth in the
first quarter.
I think it will continue to do so because we are now having more and more patients using
Symbicort on maintenance and also we launched Breztri in China during the epidemic and it's --
the initial response from the market even self-pay from the patient. So we are getting a lot of
new patients starting to use Breztri as well. So I think you can bet on our future. We can bet on our
future really on the uptake of inhaled Symbicort and the Breztri and the Bevespi franchise to
mitigate the long-term risk for Pulmicort.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceutical Business Unit `Very quickly, Pascal. If you now look at the overall emerging markets, you already can see that
Symbicort is already half of the Pulmicort sales growing very fast. So it's a very clear signal that
maintenance market is more embraced by physicians in the emerging markets.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for the very important point. So, we are really here to answer all if we can, but at least
most of your questions. So if you don't mind, we will extend to 10 past to give more time to more
people. So the next question is `Matt Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse at Credit Suisse. Go ahead, Matt.
Q - `Matt Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Two for me, please. The one feature of Q1 was the impressive growth in
EM ex-China, you've highlighted that. But given the reliance on oil income in countries like Russia
and the Middle East and the severe economic slowdown that LatAm looks like it's seeing, how
should we think about the outlook for growth in those markets in the mid term? Can we rely on it
being a continued driver of growth.
And then the second specific question for Marc. The gross margin, so a significant step down in
the quarter is a reference to one-off adjustments to Group inventory. Can you just walk us
through those, give us some idea of how much that contributed to the 2 percentage point step
down and how we should think about gross margin for the rest of the year?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Michael. The first question, it's always up to -- I addressed one of the -- I mean, some of
these questions. There'll be lots of puts and take in what's going to happen. Of course,
downward economic pressure due to this, economic changes, oil pressure et cetera, On the
other hand, governments will want to support economies and inject cash as we know, and also I
suspect healthcare will be priority coming out of this crisis. So what wins overall is hard to predict,
but certainly this will have an impact.
Marc, do you want to add anything on probably the other question?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So very rapidly, so out of this 2% decline in gross margin, about half or 1% is caused by this
one-time one-off adjustment in the inventory calculation. The other factor that we have signaled
in our press release is the greater proportion of the Lynparza sale, leading to a bigger profit
sharing with Merck. And there is a third factor, which is smaller, it is basically a slight impact. But
the three factors, the three most important factors are these one-time off, and then the Lynparza
gross margin and the third is forex. And this represents about the 2%.
To come back to your conclusion for the gross margin on 2020, it will be broadly in line with what
we saw in 2019. Despite the additional cost that we incur due to the increased safety that we
need to provide to the manufacturing employees, but also to the increased logistic cost. Of
course, they don't represent an enormous amount of our value chain, but we have increased
logistic cost due to COVID-19, but despite this we will be in line with '19.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Let's move to the next question, if we could. `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities at Guggenheim. Seamus, go
ahead.Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Great, thanks so much for the question. So first off, I just want to applaud the team for saving us
from too much time wasted listening to elevator music by going off cycle on the hour. I only have
one question, though. The key question for me is on an Enhertu. It looks like the early uptake has
been really impressive in the US in terms of the number of patients on treatment. Can you just
give us a general sense on two things. Number one, how is the on-market tolerability of the
product? I know it's early stages, but I believe that the risk of ILD can emerge relatively early. So
just wanted to see how the on-market experience is. And then maybe just Jose could update us
a little bit on the upcoming ASCO abstracts and what we really should be watching for. Thanks so
much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Jose, maybe you can cover both the Enhertu and the second question.
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, absolutely. So thank you for the question. So when it comes to the ILD in the market, I think
Dave mentioned, we have (inaudible) about in the market already 1,000 patients, it's still early
days. I'll say the same as the last time. We have indications that since we had the awareness
campaign and the management campaign, we are getting less of the ILD numbers. However, I
think we need to be careful, and we are going to be presenting in the near future a follow-up
detailed update on the effects of this awareness campaign and the effect of this management
on ILD, but we are positive.
When it comes to the Enhertu data sets that are going to be at ASCO, we did mention that we
are going to have data in non-small cell lung cancer. We are going to have data in gastric. We're
going to have data in colorectal data in colorectal. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jose. Then last question maybe is `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen at Cowen. Steve, go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. As opposed to COVID-19 uncertainty, what gives AstraZeneca the confidence to
maintain 2021 outlooks for late-stage readouts? AstraZeneca is the only company so far to have
mentioned 2021 and does the call out of late-stage readouts imply that early stage readouts are
at greater risk? Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Who wants to take this one? Jose, do you want to cover this? I don't think you should believe --
you should conclude that Steve, but anybody who wants to comment on that?
A - `Jose Baselga, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
I'll be happy to take the question and Mene can add if he wants to. I think, basically we have
looked at very seriously at our late portfolio -- sorry, at our late clinical trials portfolio. And what
we state is that we do not believe, as we have announced that in 2020 and in 2021, it will have an
impact. In early, you're right. In early, the effects are going to be greater, because these are trials
that are more complex. These are trials in which you look at safety. So we're going to have morean early clinical trial that on a late. So I think in overall we stay pretty confident in what we have
mentioned.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jose. Let's take, if I may, two last questions but please one question per person. Andrew
at Leerink, go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Berens, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
As you guys prepare to launch Lynparza in prostate cancer, I was wondering if you could give us
some color on how we should look at the opportunity, I guess specifically, I was wondering, if you
think the LS benefit in PROfound could likely make it to the label given the proximity to PDUFA
and what type of competition do you see in regards to the other PARP agents?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Andrew. Dave, it's over to?
A - `Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology `
So in terms of the opportunity, we look at the marketplace, we see that HRRm represents, based
on tissue, about 25% of patients in that metastatic prostate cancer space. So that gives a sense
for the size of the marketplace that's there and I think that as we take a look at the competitive
field, we are the only PARP inhibitor with a Phase 3 that is read out. I think also to the point that
you're raising about LS, we're the only PARP with overall survival as a result. Also, we know that
that overall survival benefit is going to be incredibly meaningful. It's been incredibly elusive
endpoint in the prostate cancer setting. And so the ability to be able to have that is something
that we can speak to be important. Whether we get that included in the label, obviously, that's
something that we've immediately taken to FDA and we'll see how those discussions go with
them.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Eric at Bryan Garnier maybe the last question.
Q - `Eric Berrigaud, Analyst, Bryan Garnier `
Thank you, Pascal. Across this crisis, pharma companies have seen less travel costs, less face to
face interactions with physicians et cetera and raised in use of digital tools in the context of still
very high SG&A cost at AZ compared to peers, do you identify extra savings or change impact in
practice that could stay longer than for the duration of the COVID and maybe considering also
impairments with Bydureon and also tough US market condition for Farxiga in diabetes despite
very strong data, are you thinking of resources shift from diabetes into other areas as more and
more opportunities emerge with greater returns maybe? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Marc, do you want to comment on this? Eric, we always -- we allocate resources appropriate as
we -- as the business develops. We still believe Farxiga in the US and elsewhere has a lot of
potential in heart failure and kidney disease and we want to support this because this is a very big
unmet need and big upside there. In terms of the digital piece, et cetera, Marc, do you want to
cover that?A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So just briefly, for sure we do -- we have allocated more of our expenses, G&A expenses in
particular to oncology and to the expansion in China and therefore less to diabetes as you note.
We obviously try to pivot to digital and to augment our digital presence in many countries and we
are getting more efficient at it every month. So this is certainly a trend that we will continue in the
future and this should give us an opportunity to further redeploy and allocate resources efficiently.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Just, Eric, on closing, I just like to remind everybody on our progress in Q1 as far
as earnings and cash flow, so we definitely are improving our profitability and showing leverage.
So let me conclude by, first of all, apologizing for pushing people along a little bit, but we were
really trying to give everybody a chance to ask a question, because we really do appreciate your
interest in our company and your great support over time. So I'd like to conclude by thanking
everybody for -- again for your interest and your time.
And I wish you a good day. Thank you. Bye-bye.