Q1 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft Fiscal Year 2021 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow
the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations, General Manager, Investor
Relations. Thank you. You may begin.
`Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Executive Officer; `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer; Alice Jolla, Chief Accounting Officer; and
Keith Dolliver, Deputy General Counsel.
On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial
summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call
and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.
Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP financial
measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of
financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional
clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's quarterly performance in
addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results.
All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year
unless otherwise noted. We also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a
framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of
foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we will
refer to growth rate only. We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately
following the call until the complete transcript is available.Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live
transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and
view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections,
or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations
and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ
because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during
this conference call, and in the Risk Factors sections of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other
reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty
to update any forward-looking statement.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.
`Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mike. We are off to a strong start in fiscal 2021 driven by the continued strength of our
commercial cloud, which surpassed $15 billion in revenue, up 31% year-over-year. The next
decade of economic performance for every business will be defined by the speed of their digital
transformation. We are innovating across the full modern tech stack to help customers in every
industry improve time-to-value, increase agility, and reduce costs.
Now, I'll highlight examples of our momentum and impact starting with Azure. We are building
Azure as the world's computer with more datacenter regions than any other provider, now 66,
including new regions in Austria, Brazil, Greece, and Taiwan. We are expanding our hybrid
capability so that organizations can seamlessly build, manage, and deploy their applications
anywhere. With Arc, customers can extend Azure management and deploy Azure data services
on-premise, at the edge, or in multi-cloud environments.
With Azure SQL edge, we are bringing SQL data engine to IoT devices for the first time. And with
Azure Space, we are partnering with SpaceX and SES to bring Azure compute to anywhere on the
planet. Leading companies in every industry are taking advantage of this distributed computing
fabric to address their biggest challenges. In energy, both BP and Shell rely on our cloud to meet
sustainability goals. In consumer goods, PepsiCo will migrate its mission-critical SAP workloads to
Azure. And with Azure for operators, we are expanding our partnership with companies like AT&T
and Telstra, bringing the power of the cloud and the edge to their networks.
Just last week, Verizon chose Azure to offer Private 5G Mobile Edge Computing to their business
customers. When it comes to data, Azure brings together cloud-native, limitless data, and
unmatched analytics. Nearly 1 million SQL databases have migrated to Azure to-date and we
process more than 1.4 trillion customer queries each day. The number of petabyte-scale
workloads running on Azure has more than doubled year-over-year.
Azure Synapse redefines cloud analytics by bringing together enterprise data warehousing and
Big Data analytics. With Synapse Link, customers can run real-time analytics over their operational
data. They can build advanced AI models using Azure machine learning to identify trends and
predict outcomes. And with Power BI, anyone in an organization can access these insights and
build custom dashboards.
From Electrolux, GE Aviation, and Rockwell Automation in manufacturing to Marks & Spencers and
Myntra in retail, businesses are choosing Synapse to accelerate time to insight across their
organization. We are also leading in AI in its enterprise applications. Azure Cognitive Servicesmake it easier for organizations from Airbus to Volkswagen to build applications that see, hear,
speak, search, understand, and accelerate decision-making.
We are going further to meet some of our customers' biggest challenges today, introducing new
capabilities to understand people's movements in physical space and detect anomalies in
metrics. And our partnership with open AI brings leading-edge large scale AI models such as GPT-
3 to Azure.
Now to developers. As software developers become critical to value creation in every industry,
their productivity is key to business performance. We have the most widely used and loved
toolchain to help developers rapidly go from idea to code, and code to cloud. With the world's
most popular code editing tools, Visual Studio as well as VS Code, developers are more
productive than ever. With GitHub, more than 70% of the Fortune 50 build software together. And
with Azure, they have the best-in-class services to build cloud-native apps and modernize existing
ones.
New code scanning capabilities in GitHub help developers find security vulnerabilities before they
reach production. And new integrations between GitHub and Power Apps enables professional
developers and domain experts to collaborate. At the PaaS layer, we are innovating to help
developers build modern applications. New Azure communication services enables any
developer to integrate Rich Communication APIs into their application using the same
infrastructure that powers Teams. With Azure mixed reality services, the entire world is an
application canvas, Lockheed Martin, for example, is using Azure mixed reality and HoloLens to
speed up the development of the Orion spacecraft.
Now to Power Platform. More than ever, companies need to empower domain experts to
increase the rate of digitization across the enterprise. Power Platform is the only low-code, no-
code solution that enables anyone in an organization to rapidly create an application, build a
virtual agent, automate a workflow, or analyze data. Power Platform now has more than 10 million
monthly active users, at more than 500,000 organizations from Ikea to Toyota. PayPal, for
example, is using Power BI within Teams to expand access to data insights. More than 1,900
organizations have signed up to use the Return to Workplace Solution to help keep employees
safe and healthy when they go back to the office.
The Los Angeles Unified School District plans to use Power Platform to help keep 700,000
students and educators safe across more than 1,400 schools when they reopen.
Now on to Dynamics 365. As organizations look to move from being reactive to proactive, they're
choosing Dynamics 365. From AEP and Chipotle to Ingram Micro and Walgreens Boots Alliance,
we are seeing strong adoption of our customer data platform Dynamics 365 Customer Insights.
More companies are turning to our mixed reality solutions to keep employees connected with
experts even when they are apart. Mercedes-Benz is using Dynamics 365 Remote Assist to help
technicians across its US dealership services, increased -- service increasingly complex cars,
faster. And BHP is using the solution to keep employees at mining sites in rural Australia safe.
Just yesterday, we announced a partnership with C3.ai and Adobe to bring to market a new class
of industry-specific CRM solutions powered by Dynamics 365. And our first industry-specific
cloud, the Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare will become generally available later this week. It brings
together healthcare-specific capabilities from across Dynamics 365 as well as Microsoft 365
Power Platform and Azure to help providers like Cleveland Clinic and St. Luke's Health Network
improve patient outcomes.Now to LinkedIn. Amid a rapidly changing work environment, LinkedIn is where more than 722
million professionals go to connect with their communities, learn new skills, and find new
opportunities. We saw record levels of engagement again this quarter. We launched our most
significant redesign with a streamlined search and messaging experience as well as new ways for
connecting and sharing with Stories. More professionals are turning to LinkedIn Learning to
increase their knowledge capital, watching more than a million hours of content each week, more
than double the amount a year ago. Three people are hired every minute on LinkedIn and new
features make it easier for nearly 40 million job seekers to indicate they're looking for their next
opportunity.
In marketing solutions, advertise at demand on LinkedIn returned to near pre-COVID levels, up
40% year-over-year, as marketeers use our tools to connect with professionals, ready to do
business. And organizations continue to tap into the combination of LinkedIn Sales Navigator and
Dynamics 365 to ensure salespeople have the context they need to sell remotely.
Now to Microsoft 365. PCs have become mission-critical to sustain work, learning, and life at
home and maintain business continuity in the enterprise in a remote-everything world. Windows
10 monthly active devices are up double digits year-over-year across commercial consumer and
education. And we will have the largest lineup of Surface and OEM devices ever this holiday
season to support every person and work style.
Microsoft 365 is the comprehensive suite of productivity apps and experiences people use and
rely on every day. Teams now has more than a 115 million daily active users. We are seeing
increased usage intensity as people communicate, collaborate, and co-author content across
work, life, and learning. All up, Microsoft 365 users generated more than 30 billion collaboration
minutes in a single day this quarter.
Teams is the only solution with meetings, calls, chat, content collaboration as well as business
process workflow in a secure, integrated user experience. And as companies move online, they
also want one unified platform from meetings to phone systems which Teams delivers. The key
to productivity is to move beyond transactional meetings and sustain the flow of work and
maintain business process context. That's where Microsoft 365 and Teams stand out. You
collaborate on a PowerPoint presentation before a meeting and share it with participants in
SharePoint. If you miss a meeting, you can access the recording via Stream and catch up via
Persistent chat. Action items can automatically be assigned in Lists. With Power Platform and
Teams, you can build custom productivity apps using Lists as the data source and you can even
connect Dynamics 365 to Teams so that you can see customer information and take action.
It's clear that people will need more flexibility in when, where, and how they work. We are adding
reimagined workspaces in Teams for every collaborator, remote, in-person, or on the go. And we
are accelerating our innovation for both first-line as well as knowledge workers with over 100 new
capabilities in the last six months, including Breakout Rooms, Meeting recap, Shifts scheduling,
and large scale digital events up to 20,000 participants to help people transcend both time and
distance.
Employee health and well-being is a top concern for every CEO. We are innovating with new
experiences to help people prioritize well being in the flow of work. New insights and Teams
provides personalized recommendation, recommended actions, making it easier for employees
to create healthy work habits and for leaders to build high-performing teams.
New Virtual Commute gives structure to remote workday with scheduled cognitive breathers and
Together Mode is helping employees at companies like Office Depot reduce video fatigue. Morebroadly, we are accelerating our innovation across Microsoft 365. New Microsoft Stream is the
video platform for the enterprise making it easy to create, share, and discover videos at work.
Transcription and voice commands in word help people save time and SharePoint syntax makes it
easier to find and work with content across the enterprise.
We are seeing Microsoft 365 momentum in every industry. In education, nearly 270,000
institutions are using Teams to power remote learning and improve learning outcomes, including
the University of Nottingham in the UK, Morehouse College, the University of South Florida, and
some of the largest school districts in the United States like Miami-Dade County Public Schools. In
sports, the NBA and NFL are reimagining the game-day experience for fans. PepsiCo will deploy
Microsoft 365 and Teams to its 270,000 employees worldwide. And Morgan Stanley,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Prudential Financials all chose Microsoft 365 E5 this quarter for
differentiated security compliance, voice, and analytics.
Now to security. We are the only company that offers end-to-end capabilities to protect and
manage data, devices, identities, and infrastructure holistically, enabling a cross-platform and a
multi-cloud zero trust architecture. H&R Block, for example, used on tools to implement Zero
Trust principles in just two weeks, enabling thousands of tax professionals to securely work from
home. In identity, Azure AD has nearly 400 million monthly active users and we have seen usage
of third-party apps increase 2x since last year. In security, new Microsoft Defender simplifies
threat detection and response and now includes coverage for Android and iOS as well as multi-
cloud and on-premise protection for SQL workloads.
In device and data management, Microsoft Endpoint Manager monitors an organization's devices
in a unified platform and new tools offer proactive remediation of issues before they disrupt end-
users. And in compliance, our new compliance manager offers more than 150 out-of-the-box
assessment for regulations such as GDPR.
Now to gaming. Gaming is the most expensive category in entertainment industry. Three billion
consumers look to gaming for entertainment, community, and achievement and our ambition is to
empower each of them wherever they play. Our Xbox Game Pass service has more than 15
million subscribers. Quality differentiated content is the flywheel behind the services growth and
the addition of EA Play next month along with our pending acquisition of ZeniMax Media will add
more of the world's most iconic franchises to more than a 100 high-quality games already
available and materially increases our ability to increase content.
We are also transforming how games are distributed and played and reaching new players on
mobile and tablet by bringing cloud gaming to Game Pass. Finally, we are delighted by early
reviews and excitement in the Xbox Series S and Xbox Series X, which will be the most affordable
and the most powerful consoles available.
In closing, in a world of uncertainty and constraints, every person and every organization needs
more digital technology to recover and reimagine what comes next. This represents an
unprecedented expansion of our addressable market in every layer of the tech stack. We are
focused on innovating and differentiating to meet these needs and growing opportunity.
With that, I'll hand over to Amy, who will cover our financial results in detail and share our outlook,
and I look forward to rejoining for your questions.
`Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Satya. And good afternoon, everyone. This quarter, revenue was $37.2 billion, up 12%
year-over-year. Gross margin dollars increased 15%. Operating income increased 25% andearnings per share was a $1.82, increasing 32% and 30% in constant currency. Consistent
execution by our sales teams and partners drove a strong start to the fiscal year.
In our commercial business, customers accelerated their digital transformation priorities and we
again saw strong demand for our differentiated, high-value, hybrid, and cloud offerings, resulting
in increased commitment to our platform and higher usage.
Overall, our transactional licensing business remained a headwind, although the small and
medium business customer segment improved slightly through the quarter. In our consumer
business, continued demand for PCs and productivity tools benefited Windows OEM non-Pro,
Office Consumer, and Surface. And improved advertising market benefited Search and LinkedIn
and we saw a continued strong engagement across our gaming platform.
Moving to our overall results. On a strong prior-year comparable and relatively small expiration
base, commercial bookings growth was ahead of expectations, increasing 23% and 18% in
constant currency, driven by our core annuity sales motions and an increase in the number of
large, long-term Azure contracts.
As a result, commercial remaining performance obligation increased 24% and 23% in constant
currency to $107 billion. With a roughly equivalent split between the revenue that we recognized
within the next 12 months and beyond the next 12 months.
Commercial cloud revenue grew 31% to $15.2 billion and commercial cloud gross margin
percentage expanded 5 points year-over-year to 71%, driven by the change in accounting
estimate for the useful life of server and network equipment assets discussed in our July
earnings call. Excluding this impact, commercial cloud gross margin percentage was up slightly,
despite revenue mix shift to Azure and increased usage to support our customers' remote work
scenarios.
This quarter, FX had no impact on revenue growth. More favorable than anticipated due to the
weaker US dollar. And in line with expectations, FX had no impact on COGS or operating expense
growth.
Company gross margin percentage was up 2 points year-over-year to 70%, driven by the change
in accounting estimate noted earlier. Excluding this impact, company gross margin percentage
was down slightly, with increasing cloud revenue mix and continued investments such as trial
offers and flexible financing options that deliver greater customer value in this challenging
environment. Operating expense increased 3%, lower than anticipated, driven by greater than
expected COVID-related savings and investments that shifted to future quarters.
And operating margins expanded 4 points year-over-year to 43%, including roughly 2 points of
favorable impact from a change in accounting estimate.
Now to our segment results. Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was $12.3 billion,
increasing 11% ahead of expectations, primarily driven by LinkedIn and Office Consumer. On a
strong prior-year comparable, Office Commercial revenue grew 9% with continued impact from
the transactional weakness noted earlier. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 21% and 20% in
constant currency, driven by installed base expansion across all workloads and customer
segments, as well as higher ARPU.
E5 revenue growth accelerated with strong value in our advanced security, compliance, and voice
component. Paid Office 365 commercial seats increased 15% year-over-year, with early
momentum in free trial conversions. And we saw a continued to seat growth in small and mediumbusiness and first-line worker offerings, with improvement through the quarter. So again, at more
moderated levels, Office 365 Commercial now accounts for over 70% of our existing office
commercial paid installed [ph] base.
Office Consumer revenue grew 13%, with better than expected sales of Office 2019 and
accelerating growth in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, up 27% year-over-year to 45.3 million.
Dynamics revenue grew 19% and 18% in constant currency, better than expected, driven by
Dynamics 365 revenue growth of 38% and 37% in constant currency.
Growth in the number of customers adopting multiple Dynamics 365 workloads accelerated,
reflecting the value of our modern solutions with compelling time to value. LinkedIn revenue
increased 16%, significantly ahead of expectations, primarily driven by a stronger advertising
market that benefited our Marketing Solutions business.
Segment gross margin dollars increased 13% and 12% in constant currency and gross margin
percentage increased 1 point year-over-year, including roughly 2 points of favorable impact from
a change in accounting estimate, partially offset by sales mix to cloud. Operating expense
increased 4% and operating income increased 19% year-over-year, including 6 points due to the
change in accounting estimate.
Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $13 billion, increasing 20% and 19% in constant
currency, slightly ahead of expectations. On a significant base, server products and cloud services
revenue increased 22% and 21% in constant currency.
Azure revenue grew 48% and 47% in constant currency, driven by consistent strong growth in our
consumption-based business. This quarter, we saw better-than-expected growth in our per-user
enterprise mobility business as the installed base increased 27% to 152 million seats. And our on-
premises server business decreased 1%, with impact from continued transactional weakness and
a strong prior-year comparable that benefited from the End of Support for Windows Server and
SQL Server 2008. Enterprise Services revenue grew 6% and 5% in constant currency, again driven
by Premier Support Services.
Segment gross margin dollars increased 26% and 25% in constant currency and gross margin
percentage increased 3 points year-over-year, with nearly 4 points of favorable impact from a
change in accounting estimate. Operating expense increased 10% and operating income
increased 39% and 38% in constant currency, with roughly 13 points of favorable impact from the
exchange in accounting estimate.
Now to More Personal Computing. Revenue was $11.8 billion, increasing 6% with better than
expected performance in Windows OEM non-Pro, Surface, and Search. In Windows, overall OEM
revenue declined 5%, better than expected. OEM non-Pro revenue grew 31%, benefiting from
demand for larger screens for productivity, and OEM Pro revenue declined 22%, impacted by
lower commercial demand across all customer segments and a prior-year comparable that
benefited from the End of Support for Windows 7. Inventory levels ended the quarter in the
normal range.
Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue grew 13% and 12% in constant
currency, slightly below expectations, as continued demand for Microsoft 365 and our Advanced
Security Solutions was partially offset by a lower mix of multi-year agreements that carry higher in-
quarter revenue recognition as well as continued transactional weakness.
In Surface, revenue grew 37% and 36% in constant currency, driven by year-over-year differences
and product launch timing and channel purchasing, as well as overall PC market demand. Searchrevenue ex-TAC declined 10% and 11% in constant currency. And in Gaming, revenue increased
22% and 21% in constant currency, driven by continued strong engagement and monetization
across the platform, though at a slightly lower rate than last quarter.
Xbox content and services revenue increased 30% with strong growth in third-party transactions,
Game Pass subscribers, and first-party titles. Segment gross margin dollars increased 8% and
gross margin increased 1 point year-over-year as improvements primarily within Gaming and
Surface, were mostly offset by a lower mix of Windows revenue.
Operating expense decreased 8% and operating income grew 18% year-over-year. Now back to
total company results. Capital expenditures including finance leases were $5.5 billion, up 15%
year-over-year to support growing customer usage and demand for our cloud services.
Cash paid for PP&E was $4.9 billion. On a low prior-year comparable that included tax payments
related to the transfer of intangible property, cash flow from operations was $19.3 billion, up 40%
year-over-year and free cash flow was $14.4 billion, up 38%. Excluding the impact of these tax
payments, cash flow from operations grew 12% as healthy cloud billings and collections were
partially offset by higher supplier payments related to the Xbox hardware inventory build. And
free cash flow grew 3%, reflecting a significant increase in cash payments for PP&E.
Other income and expense was $248 million, higher than anticipated, driven by net gains on
foreign currency remeasurement and investments, including mark-to-market gains on our equity
portfolio.
Our effective tax rate was 14%, with a greater than expected impact from equity vests in the
quarter. And finally, we returned $9.5 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and
dividends, an increase of 21% year-over-year.
Now let's move to our outlook. In our commercial business, expanding addressable markets,
differentiated value, and consistent execution to drive another quarter of increased usage and
growing commitment to our platform that drive commercial bookings. However, a declining expiry
base will impact the growth. As always, large long-term Azure contracts are more unpredictable
in their timing. An increasing mix of these long-term agreements drives more quarterly volatility in
bookings. And though, trends have improved a bit, growth will continue to be impacted by
transactional weakness. A strong prior-year comparable that included the End of Support for
Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008, as well as transactional strength in Japan across our office
businesses will also impact growth rates.
In our consumer business, we expect some benefit from continued consumer PC market growth,
though at a more moderated growth rates than last quarter, given the traditionally high volume of
PCs sold every Q2. Commercial cloud gross margin percentage will increase approximately 3
points year-over-year, again driven by the change in accounting estimate noted earlier.
Excluding this impact, continued improvement in Azure IaaS and PaaS gross margin will be offset
by mix shift to Azure. And on a dollar basis, we expect capital expenditures to be roughly in line
with last quarter to support growing usage and demand for our cloud services.
Now to FX. Based on current rates, we expect FX to increase total company revenue and
operating expense growth by approximately one point and have no impact on COGS growth.
Within the segments, FX should increase productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent
Cloud revenue growth by approximately 1 point and have no impact on More Personal Computing
revenue growth.Next to segment guidance. In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue between
$12.75 billion and $13 billion. In Office Commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office
365, with continued upsell opportunity to E5. However, growth will be impacted by the strong
prior-year comparable noted earlier, as well as a decline of approximately 30% in our on-
premises business, driven by continued transactional weakness and the ongoing customer shift
to Office 365.
In Office Consumer, we expect revenue to grow in the mid-single digits, down sequentially, as
continued growth in Microsoft 365 subscription revenue will be impacted by the strong prior-year
comparable and the seasonality of the PC market noted earlier.
In LinkedIn, we expect the improved advertising market and continued strong engagement on
the platform to drive revenue growth similar to last quarter. And in Dynamics, continued Dynamics
365 momentum will drive revenue growth, though a slightly lower rate than last quarter in line
with the historic seasonality in that business.
For Intelligent Cloud, we expect revenue between $13.55 billion and $13.8 billion. In Azure,
revenue growth will be driven by our consumption-based business, with continued strong growth
on a significant base. And in our per-user business, we expect growth rates to moderate further,
given the size of the enterprise mobility installed base. In our on-premises server business, we
expect revenue to decline low-single digits as demand for our hybrid and premium offerings will
be offset by continued transactional weakness and the impact from the prior-year comparable
noted earlier.
And in Enterprise Services, we expect revenue to be up low-single digits. In More Personal
Computing, we expect revenue between $13.2 billion and $13.6 billion.
In Windows, on the strong prior-year comparable, overall revenue should decline in the high
single-digit range. In our OEM business, we expect another strong quarter in OEM non-Pro, but
OEM Pro will again be impacted by the lower commercial demand.
In Windows Commercial products and cloud services, we expect healthy annuity billings growth,
driven by the continued demand for our Advanced Security Solutions. However, growth will be
materially impacted by a lower mix of multi-year agreements that carry higher in-quarter revenue
recognition, primarily due to the declining expiry base and a large deal in the prior year.
In Surface, revenue will be relatively unchanged, impacted by the year-over-year timing
differences of product lifecycle transitions noted earlier. In Search ex-TAC, we expect revenue to
decline in the mid to high single-digit range. And in Gaming, we expect revenue growth in the
high 20% range. We expect very strong demand following the launch of our next-generation
Xbox Series X and S consoles, driving supply-constrained hardware revenue growth of
approximately 40%.
We also expect neg -- negative gross margin impact from console sales this quarter as we invest
against the growing lifetime value of the platform. Xbox content and services revenue should
grow in the low 20% range, with strong engagement and continued momentum in Game Pass
subscribers. As a reminder, our outlook does not include ZeniMax, which we still expect to close in
the second half of the fiscal year.
Now, back to company guidance. We expect COGS of $13.75 billion to $13.95 billion and operating
expense of $11.4 billion to $11.5 billion. And other income and expense, interest income and
expense should offset each other. And finally, we expect our Q2 tax rate to be approximately
16%. In closing, I'd like to share a few thoughts as we look beyond the next quarter.As digital transformation accelerates, and our sales teams and partners continue to execute well
in serving customers, our high-value solutions should drive full-year double-digit revenue growth
in our commercial segments, even in a challenging and competitive environment. Given our
significant ambition, desire to enable our customers' visions for their future, and the opportunity
that creates, we will continue to invest in high growth markets and the strategic areas [ph] that
will further enhance our position.
With that, Mike, let's go to Q&A.
`Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Amy. We'll now move over to Q&A. Out of respect to others on the call, we request the
participants to please only ask one question.
Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Absolutely. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan
Stanley. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Excellent. Thank you for taking the question and very nice quarter. I wanted to talk a little bit about
Intelligent Cloud and the trends that you're seeing there. We're picking up in stuff like our CIO
surveys, really strong indications from CIOs that they want to move more aggressively to the
public cloud. We're seeing that in good results from Azure. How should we think about the on-
premise server and tools business on a going-forward basis?
Is this increased preference for our public cloud going to more permanently impair server and
cloud -- I'm sorry, server and tools growth in the on-premise environment or is there a potential
for just to it coming back to the low to mid single-digit growth that we've seen historically once
we pass these tough comps?
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Let me start. And, Keith, thanks for the question. And Amy, you can add to it. Couple of things,
Keith. One is the approach we have always taken is that distributed computing will remain
distributed so the cloud and the edge is what will be the distributed fabric for applications. So if
you look at where our growth is coming from for the all-up number in Intelligent Cloud, it's
coming from -- at the infrastructure layer, the flexibility that we have around hybrid deployment.
Things like Azure Arc are very differentiated. Same thing with data. One of the big feature
innovations even in the last quarter was the ability to deploy, for example, Azure Data in any
cloud including the edge. So that deployment drives application preference for our infrastructure.
The two other things that are happening is developers, whether it's LiveShift modernized motion
or just new applications because of what they're doing on GitHub or Azure DevOps or VS Code
choosing Azure services. And with Power Platform Dynamics or M-365, because a lot of these
logic apps that people build are about stitching together extensions of workflows of multiple SAS
apps. So we have all three of these trends, leading to more intense usage of infrastructure data
and the application PaaS services.And so that's how we view it. I don't sort of look at each quarter what's happening on server plus
cloud. I look at the holistic deployment options that our customers need for their increasingly
distributed applications. And so that's sort of what I see. And, Amy, if you want to add to it,
please go ahead.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. And, Keith, maybe I can help a little bit. In general, I think it's easier if you think about Azure
plus the annuity business as being this durable hybrid edge cloud value that Satya was talking
about. And we continue to see very strong and consistent performance across those things in
terms of renewal rates, the strength of premium, the strength of hybrid value props. And so, that
aspect, Keith, because of the reasons Satya mentioned, we don't see nearly as much change in
that. It's frankly why you see bookings numbers that are very good, it's why you see RPO both
less than 12 months. Think about that as our core annuity motion versus longer than 12 months,
which are these Azure longer contracts, all having very healthy growth. So then what you're left
with is a small component of the business which is that non-annuity/what we call, transactional
business, which is one-time purchases all recognized in quarter.
And because of that, it does move around a lot more, and it helped, obviously, when we had End
of Support, and we are transparent about that. And then it hurts more, both in this macro-
environment, but more so, just because of some tough comparables. And so, while we will
continue to have that through a few quarters and we'll expect it to bounce around a bit, because
of the nature of a 100% in-quarter recognition, the fundamentals of bookings, renewals,
premium, and hybrid value as well as Azure consumption, feel far more consistent than not, is
how I would answer that.
Q - `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks much. That's super helpful. Thank you, guys.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Keith. Operator, we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Heather Bellini, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Heather Bellini, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you so much for taking the question. Amy, I had a question. You just made some
really strong, robust growth come in from the top line, as you look out into the future. But you
also invested, rightly so, with your desire to invest for your customers in key growth areas.
I think one of the questions, people might be wondering it, how do we think about how that
might impact operating margin trajectory and should we interpret your comments that, obviously,
growth remains really strong and we are investing for growth, but there is an eye on profitability
as well?
Like, how would you like those comments interpreted a little bit more deeply? Thank you so
much.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Thanks, Heather. If you take a step back, the comments were really about the consistency and
the opportunity in front of us. And so, in our commercial segments where we're seeing consistent
annuity execution, we're seeing increasing usage, we're seeing good deployment, and frankly,
the portfolio that Satya went through in his comments, if you go section by section, it's talking
about amazing, like TCO advantages that the portfolio offers even for our commercial customers
who are looking for ways to accelerate, but control cost. And so for us, when you see operating
environments like that, where you see the opportunity, you feel good about your portfolio, you
can fuel -- and basically, feel good about our complete stack, but at a high value. What we want
to make sure we do and my comments were around us are really about making it clear that we
intend to continue to go after the opportunity we see.
And so, of course, we're always thoughtful about how we invest. But in these areas where we
see such strong signal, I do expect us to continue to focus. And at the operating margins, a real
focus will also just be, as we enter the second half of the year, it's obviously impacted by some of
the hardware investments that we're making as well as the overall Windows numbers. So, that's
the -- probably the best way to think about those.
Q - `Heather Bellini, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you so much.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And, Heather, congratulations. We will miss having you on the call after seven years.
Q - `Heather Bellini, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you so much. Bye.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Heather. Operator, we'll move to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research with Bernstein Research. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you very much for taking the question and congratulations on a really nice, clean quarter.
Given the flare-ups in COVID, in certain geographies, and continuing lockdowns, do you think
there is increasing pressure on overall spending? Does it impact SaaS adoption going forward?
And adding to that, how do you see your supply chain for the cloud components? Are you going
to be able to meet all the demands? Thanks.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
So, maybe, I'll start and, Amy, you can add to it. I mean, overall, what we have learnt over,
whatever, the last nine months or so is the best way for any business to ensure both resilience as
well as pivot and transform and reimagine how to work with some of the constraints is digital
tech.
So whether it's infrastructure, whether it's data, or on SaaS, It's in fact increased adoption ratethe smallest of businesses need to be able to deploy a solution quickly for some workflow that
allows them, say, for example, to do curbside pickup, if you are a retailer and a small business,
but they were able to build out easily and deploy it.
So that's what we are seeing, which is increasing adoption and use. And on the supply chain side,
we have worked through. We did get -- when we have the initial rush, we did have demand
surges that needed us to sort of work through on our supply chain. We feel very good right now
on how the supply is working to support the demand.
Amy?
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Nothing to add, Satya. Thank you.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it and congrats.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mark. Operator, we'll take the next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Phil Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Phil Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Congrats on another great quarter. I just wanted to focus on
the Office 365 Commercial. And, Amy, thank you for that update that you're now 70%
penetrated. And if I go back to the financial analyst briefing back in 2017, that was 50%.
So, I guess two questions, one is that could you help us sort of unpack just the installed base
growth, obviously with those two percentages, the numbers you gave, that's pretty healthy
installed base growth. And then as a follow-up to that one thing, you mentioned two, is obviously
the continued migration to E5. Sort of what inning are we in for the sort of the E3 to E5 motion.
And how important is voice, which is one of the things you mentioned in the E5 just to Office 365
going forward?
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Amy, go ahead.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Let me break down your question, Phil, because I want to make sure that the comment on 70% is
really thought about in the right way. It's 70% of the current installed base, and so one of the key
components of that is we have, as you said, continued to see installed base growth and whether
that's adding first-line worker or scenarios, whether it's increasing in small business, there are so
many ways for us to continue to add tremendous value, continue to grow the installed base.
But we are pleased that we have 70% on more modern experiences, obviously of Office 365 in
terms of adding to productivity and being able to continue to offer, to your point, some of this
motion on E3 and E5.To that question, there is actually room, so on both of those motions. We've got room to
continue to have people move to E3. We've got room to continue obviously and it's not just
voice, although that is an important component. The really exciting value in E5 is that it offers
security value, it offers compliance value, it offers voice, there's analytics value. And so, the reality
is, all of them are becoming more meaningful especially in time to value and TCO.
The one thing also that I sometimes think gets missed when we talk about Office 365 is one of
the other key motions that's important around this group and business is the ability for us to
continue to add the Microsoft 365 components, whether that's EMS or Windows security value.
And so, while we are excited about the installed base and the progress, it also creates a good
opportunity for us to continue to move people to the Microsoft 365 SKU and not just up through
the SKUs of Office.
Q - `Phil Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Phil. Operator, we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Amy, I wanted to ask you a question given the comment you made about bookings
volatility. I wanted to ask about some of the Azure trends, in particular, that we can't see such as
the level of Azure migration activity that might still be in the planning phase or if deals have been
signed, how you feel about the Azure backlog that will convert to revenues over the next year or
so? And whether some of the Azure Go lives have been pushed by a quarter or two, given the
uncertain environment?
That kind of color might serve as a nice complement to the solid 47% reported Azure number
you gave. Thank you.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead, Amy.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Karl, it's a good question. Maybe let me break down some of the components. When you think
about Azure, and some of these longer-term sort of deals I was discussing, the longer-term
bigger deals, when I talk about them being more volatile, it's just -- it's more that we don't really
focused on the exact moment in time that they get done. They tend to be partnerships that
we're really working through, they take longer for planning, and so these types of partnerships,
it's really about making sure we make them successful far more than which quarter that they
arrive in. And so that does just result in a little bit more volatility in that -- in that bookings number.
Now, so I would separate that from the question you're asking which I think is great around how
much of that creates a funnel of opportunity for us in terms of converting those plans as well as
maybe hybrid benefits that exist today in our good annuity performance on-prem.So for us, that is about investing in customer success, and so for us, that's been one of the
important investments we've made over the past couple of years and why we continue to invest
in everything from skilling at our customers, up through training, up through deployment, and
really make sure that each project is successful and has good value.
And so, when you think about that, think about the annuity on-prem business as well as these
longer-term Azure contracts as being effectively a book of business to continue to work and
convert into as you're talking about this consumption.
Now, within a quarter, the consumption, obviously it has other impacts, most of it obviously is --
it's used and it's recognized in quarter. You will see that number, as you know, jump around a little
bit from quarter-to-quarter. Some of that is the per-user that we've talked about, things like EMS
can have a little bit more in-quarter recognition.
They can be impacted by an expiry base, and so you'll see that number, the Azure KPI, jump
around a little bit more than just from consumption.
And you can have things like overages, land on an annual basis as opposed to maybe a monthly
basis and that can also make the number jump around a little bit. So, while the funnel and the
conversion is absolutely how we think about seeing strong bookings and a strong, especially,
longer than 12-month RPO balance, we certainly also sort of work that meticulously at the
customer level to get projects to success.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Just one thing I'd add is, to Amy's earlier comment about our customer success motion, when we
look at the app portfolio for any customer, we look to see first of all which apps do they want to
just retire, which apps do they want to modernize and move to the cloud, or new cloud starts.
And then we use all of what is there on our stack to help that, right. So it could be a power app
that gets built, which is more part of Microsoft -- Office 365 or Microsoft 365. It could be a SaaS
application that is in Dynamics module, that's better for them because that's a faster time to
value. And then -- and sometimes you build in Azure.
So we look at it holistically across all of the tech stack versus any one thing because that's what
we think what differentiates Microsoft and creates preference for Microsoft long-term. So that's
how we approach it.
Q - `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Thank you, both.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Karl. Operator, we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies `
Good afternoon. Satya, good to see the Teams number double on the MAUs in a pretty short
duration. Maybe if you can just walk us through your next chapter of the Teams' story and whereyou see the biggest opportunity, and what other components you're seeing attach to the Teams
rollout? Thank you.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thank you so much for the question. Yeah, Teams is very exciting to us because unlike
anything else that we have done at the application layer, it's literally like a shell and has a platform
effect because it is meetings, it's chat, it's collaboration as well as business process applications,
integrated into Teams. So that scaffolding richness literally makes it a very robust platform. And
so, we are seeing significant growth. We talked about the usage growth, but we are also seeing
significant growth of usage across all these modalities inside of Teams.
But the other aspect which I referenced in my remarks is when you look at Microsoft 365 all up,
Teams is bolstering all our growth [ph] right because meetings are important, but they are
transactional. Work happens before meetings, during meetings, and after meetings. So that
ability to have the workflow completely stitched together is where Microsoft 365 really stands
out. So that reinforcing effect of Teams by itself and then Microsoft 365 in conjunction with Teams
is where you will see a significant amount of usage growth more so than individual tools of the
past, even.
Now actually, maybe, we'll go to the next question.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Brent. Operator, we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Keith Bachman, Analyst, BMO with BMO. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Keith Bachman, Analyst, BMO `
Hi. Thank you very much. Satya and Amy, I wanted to is -- you could speak to the growth of
Windows within MPC, in particular, as we move past the tough compares. How would you
characterize the growth potential of Windows and what would you envision are the key drivers,
perhaps even the key risk associated with that with those comments on what you envision the
durable growth is on Windows? Thank you very much.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
So maybe I can start, Amy, and then you can add to it. If anything, again, the last nine months or
so have proven that when it comes to Windows and PCs, they become mission-critical, because
when it comes to remote learning, remote work or -- and any type of activity and productivity, in
particular, depends on having PCs and applications on PCs. So we are doubling down on it.
That means the innovation in Windows and at -- Microsoft 365 is the best way to conceptualize
how we even think about Windows because it's one Surface area where we want to deliver our
best payloads for productivity, communications, collaboration, business process and we'll keep
working even on the form function innovation as well.
So even if you look at the holiday lineup of devices, it's great to see that, large screens, small
screens, mobile difference, different chip architectures that make it pretty attractive to have a
Windows device with you always. So that's how we look at it, it's very important. I think if anything,even mobile-only countries and mobile-only scenarios are recognizing that they also can do with
some help with additional screens and so that's something that we look forward to.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And I do think, one of the ways to think, in particular, about commercial demand for Windows to
Satya's point, is it -- while it can have -- intends to have a round End of Support, some [ph] raised
demand on the front, then you have a year of tough comparables, as we say, then it tends to
generally stabilize and be quite consistent.
And I think as we've seen in the past nine months, I think the high and mission-critical value of a
PC in the commercial environment, whether you're doing that from a remote situation or inside
the walls of an office, I think we feel very good about the value that we're offering.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Keith. Operator, we'll take the last question now, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our final question comes from `Brent Bracelin, Analyst, Piper Sandler with Piper Sandler. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Brent Bracelin, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Thank you. I'll squeeze in two if I could. Wanted to follow up on Azure. This is a segment that's
grown now to 17% of revenue. I think that's up from 4% just three years ago. You talked about the
number of petabyte-scale applications doubling, and from a size standpoint, it looks like in my
model, Azure is bigger than the Windows business for the first time ever.
My question really is around where we are in the journey around Azure? How important is this
Microsoft model, and notably, how big could it be looking out over the next three years to five
years?
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Let me start, and, Amy, you can add to it. The way I think about the computing landscape going
forward is, if you sort of said, at the highest of levels today as a percentage of GDP, tech spend is
5%, we think it will double in the next 10 years. And if anything, this pandemic, perhaps, has
accelerated that doubling.
And in that context, what's the large -- the most secular need, it's the need for distributed cloud
infrastructure, it's both needed for modernizing existing applications you have, and so that's -- by
the way, what? 20% penetrated. So, there is more 80% that needs to move, but more
importantly, there is going to be new application starts, which need infrastructure.
And so, if you sort of add those up, I think that we are still in early innings. There will be between
quarters volatility, all of the points that Amy made even earlier. But we think distributed cloud
infrastructure is the most important layer. But the way we have approached it is to not just think of
that layer in isolation, but the data layer work we do composes, the AI layer composes, and more
importantly, our SaaS applications where there are business applications, Power Platform,
Microsoft 365, all reinforce that same modern tech stack.
So, I would still say that digitization in its -- with this new tech stack is in its very -- infancy.A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And, Brent, I think, the last point Satya made is maybe the most -- was most important is that
when we think about and talk about expanding addressable markets or seeing more opportunity
than we maybe even saw just a few quarters ago, it's at every layer.
When people say that they have constraints, when you need a better time to value, when you
need to reinvent each and almost every business process in a fast and effective manner, having
every layer of the stack enabled by the infra layer, the data layer [ph] and the AI layer, I do think
it's frankly early innings, even in places where people think it seems to be near the end.
And so, I think we feel a lot of optimism in that respect.
Q - `Brent Bracelin, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Probably feels like an important milestone with Azure being larger than Windows for the first time.
I guess, the last question for me is really on AI. And I know everyone's talked about this
acceleration in digital adoption about a cross consumer in enterprise, but it almost feels like the
acceleration in AI is actually happening faster.
I'd be curious to hear kind of the plans for GPT-3 license and how do you plan to democratize
that across the platform? Thanks.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. It's a great observation because there are two sort of things that we are seeing is AI is
actually being used by both professional developers, people who won these large-scale
transformer models, or do -- even do zero-shot learning. Sorry, we are seeing significant
increases, wherein COGS -- COGS services usage across the board. But, which by the way,
comes with the use of other compute services and data services in Azure.
But the other interesting thing it is what I would call the domain experts who are using Power
Apps, being able to tap into AI -- these COGS services to build these workflow assisted with AI,
and that's where a lot of productivity gains for a lot of businesses and business process
workflows is happening.
So it's exciting to see that, as well as AI that's incorporated. I mean, every Team session is full of
AI because of the transcription services, the speech recognition services, and so on, that it
incorporates and same thing with Dynamics as well.
A - `Michael Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Brent. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us
today and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you all. Thanks so much.
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, this concludes today's teleconference. We thank you for your participation
and you may disconnect your lines at this time.