Q1 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Senior Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's
first quarter 2020 financial results, our reaffirmed full year 2020 financial guidance, Pfizer's role in
helping find solutions for the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as other relevant business topics. As
usual, I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer; `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and, our CFO; Mikael
Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, Group President,
Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer, our Chief Business Officer; and Doug Lankler, our
General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call were posted to our website earlier this morning and
are available at pfizer.com/investors. You will see here on this slide that covers our legal
disclosures. Albert and Frank will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a
question-and-answer session.With that, I'll now turn the call over to `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer. Albert?
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone. During my remarks, I will discuss the first quarter
business performance as well as recent milestones from our pipeline. However, I want to start
with a few thoughts about the COVID-19 pandemic and Pfizer's role in helping find solutions. It
goes without saying that this is an extraordinary, difficult and unprecedented time for everyone.
The public health challenges posed by COVID-19 have impacted almost every aspect of our lives.
As one of the world's largest biopharmaceutical companies, our role in this crisis is dual. On the
one hand, we are focused on maintaining the continuous supply of our medicines and vaccines to
patients around the globe, while protecting the safety and well-being of all our colleagues, of
course. On the other hand, we are working with experts, both within and outside Pfizer, to bring
our expertise, capital and resources to help contribute potential medical solutions to this
pandemic.
Let me share a few examples of what we are doing on this front. With the burden on hospitals
happening around the globe and expected to increase, the continued supply of our medicines
and vaccines is now more critical than ever. I'm pleased to say that the Pfizer Global Supply team
has done an outstanding job keeping our manufacturing sites and the related distribution
channels operational without significant supply disruptions.
In terms of finding medical solutions for the pandemic, we are collaborating with industry partners
and academic institutions to develop potential novel approaches to prevent and treat COVID-19.
We aim to leave no stone unturned and we have made advances on multiple fronts. Regarding
prevention, we recently announced that Pfizer and a German biotech company BioNTech have
entered into a global collaboration agreement to co-develop the potential first-in-class, mRNA-
based coronavirus vaccine program aimed at preventing COVID-19 infection. Last week, we
received the regulatory approval from German authority, PaulEhrlich-Institut to commence the first
clinical trial for our COVID-19 vaccine candidates in Germany. And the first patient has already
been dosed. We also plan to conduct trials in the US upon the regulatory approval, which is
expected shortly. BioNTech and Pfizer will also work jointly to bring the vaccine to market
worldwide, excluding China, which is already covered through a separate BioNTech collaboration,
subject of course to successful development and regulatory approvals. We plan to manufacture
millions of doses of the potential vaccine at-risk by the end of 2020 to accelerate availability in
the event the development program is successful and we obtain regulatory approval and then to
rapidly scale up capacity to produce potentially hundreds of millions of doses in 2021. I want to
thank everyone in both companies working on this project.
Regarding the potential treatment, we now know our lead molecule is a very potent inhibitor of
the SARS-CoV-2 3C-like protease with confirmed antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2. We
accelerating towards the clinic and commencing regulatory discussions, while also undertaking
additional antiviral testing and working on the formulation for IV administration. We invested in
clinical materials over a month ago, ahead of understanding antiviral activity to accelerate the
potential clinical study as early as August or September of this year. We also continue to provide
our clinical and regulatory experience to small biotech companies working on promising COVID-
19 therapies. And we have several Pfizer medicines that they are a subject of novel research
projects for investigation in patients with COVID-19. I want to publicly thank all our R&D
colleagues. We are working tirelessly and often late into the night to find potential vaccines and
treatments that could bring an end to this pandemic. At the end, I'm confident that science will
win the battle against COVID-19.Now, let me turn to our results for the first quarter. Obviously, we experienced both headwinds
and tailwinds related to COVID-19 during this quarter. On the one hand, our sales representatives
in many regions were not able to detail with physicians in their offices. In addition, patient visits to
doctor offices declined significantly beginning at the end of March, which is expected to
negatively impact new diagnosis of conditions requiring physician-administered diagnostic tests
beginning in the second quarter of 2020. On the other hand, we saw an uptick in our hospital
business unit in the first quarter of 2020 due in large part to stronger than usual demand for
some of anti -- of our anti-infective medicines, as well as other sterile injectable products utilized
in the incubation and ongoing treatment of mechanically-ventilated COVID-19 patients. In total,
we estimate that these puts and takes resulted in a net benefit of only 1% of -- to our first quarter
2020 Biopharma revenues, primarily reflecting increased demand for certain products in Pfizer's
hospital portfolio and increasing the wholesale inventory levels for Eliquis. In the face of these
factors, we delivered a strong quarterly performance overall, highlighted by 12% operational
revenue growth in our Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, which will be the business that remains
following the anticipated closing of the Upjohn transaction in the second half of 2020.
We also saw total company revenue negatively impacted by three expected events. The July '19
loss of exclusivity in the US for Lyrica, the July 31st completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint
venture transaction with GSK, which removed our recording of revenue and expenses from this
business and declines from Lipitor and Norvasc in China due to the volume-based procurement
program, which was initially implemented in March 2019 and expanded nationwide in December
of 2019. The Lyrica and consumer impacts will both begin to annualize in the third quarter. The
Biopharmaceutical Group's outstanding growth was again driven primarily by strong
performances from our key growth drivers. These include Eliquis, Vyndaqel/Vyndamax, Ibrance,
Inlyta and Xtandi as well as 15% operational growth in emerging markets. Our Oncology business
was particularly strong, up 25% operationally compared with a year ago quarter. Global Ibrance
revenues increased 11% operationally to $1.2 billion during this quarter. In the US, Ibrance revenues
grew 15% and it retained its strong leadership position in the CDK class due to increased volumes
and continued CDK class market share gains. The international market delivered strong 25%
volume growth in the quarter, led by emerging markets. These volume growth was offset by
pricing pressures in the EU5 markets. As a result, operational revenue growth outside the US was
5%.
For Xtandi, alliance revenues in the US were up 25% for the quarter and when combined with our
royalty income on ex-US sales totaled $256 million. Xtandi is the market leader with 38% market
share in total prescriptions in advanced prostate cancer. Demand reached an all-time high during
the quarter due to solid growth in castrate-resistant prostate cancer, expansion into metastatic
castration-sensitive prostate cancer and overall novel hormone therapy class growth. We are
pleased with the early impact of the launch of Xtandi for metastatic castration-sensitive prostate
cancer in the US. Xtandi is the first and only oral treatment approved by the FDA in three distinct
types of prostate cancer.
And related to our acquisition of Array BioPharma, we are pleased by the FDA's approval of the
lead Array asset, Braftovi, in combination with cetuximab for the treatment of adult patients with
metastatic colorectal cancer, with a BRAF mutation after prior therapy. We believe that Braftovi
doublet has the potential to make a meaningful impact on the lives of those living with this
disease.
Beyond Oncology, we had several other strong product performances. Eliquis continued to
perform well. Pfizer shares of the global revenue was up 29% operationally to $1.3 billion. This
growth was driven primarily by continued increased adoption in non-valvular atrial fibrillation, aswell as oral anti-coagulant market share gains. Additionally, US growth was favorably impacted by
COVID-19-related wholesaler buying patterns, partially offset by a lower net price.
Looking at our Rare Diseases business. Vyndaqel and Vyndamax continue to show strong US
performance. Overall, these breakthrough medicines contributed $127 million in revenue in the US
in the first quarter. Our disease awareness efforts helped drive the estimated diagnosis rate to
13% in the first quarter compared with only 1% to 2% prior to launch. At the end of the quarter,
more than 13,000 patients have been diagnosed, more than 8,500 patients have received the
prescription and more than 5,000 patients have received the drug. For the quarter, we estimate
the average number of patients in the US taking Vyndaqel was approximately 4,600. These
numbers include patients who are receiving the drug at no cost through our Patient Assistance
programs. In Europe, we received approval of Vyndaqel for the treatment of ATTR-
cardiomyopathy in February and we have already launched in two markets, including Germany.
That said, as a result of stay at home orders, we are seeing a slowdown in new diagnosis in April,
as fewer patients are visiting doctors' offices for consultations or scintigraphy tests.
Global Xeljanz revenue were up 8% operationally in the quarter to $451 million. The revenues
outside the US were up 38% operationally, primarily reflecting continued uptake in rheumatoid
arthritis, as well as from the recent launch of the ulcerative colitis indication in certain developed
markets. In the US, Xeljanz's revenue were down 4%. This reflected continued strong demand
across all approved indications more than offset by a lower net price due to higher rebating from
commercial contracts signed in 2019, as well as temporary lowering of wholesaler inventory levels
in first quarter 2020. Wholesaler inventory levels for Xeljanz were restored to normal levels in
early April 2020 during Pfizer's second quarter as underlying volume demand has remained
consistently strong.
Global Prevnar 13 revenues were down 1% operationally to $1.45 billion with 11% operational
growth internationally, primarily reflecting continued pediatric uptake in China and the overall
favorable impact of timing associated with government purchases for the pediatric indication in
certain emerging markets, including Russia and Turkey. In the US, revenues were down 10%,
primarily reflecting the unfavorable impact of timing associated with government purchases for
the pediatric indication compared with the previous year quarter.
Looking at our Sterile Injectables portfolio, our manufacturing recovery is having a positive impact
on the top line in the US. We have completed most of our supply remediation and continue to
invest in modernization necessary to sustain performance. In response to increasing demand due
to the COVID-19 pandemic, in March, Pfizer shipped more than 30 critical medicines to -- at 150%
of baseline demand from this portfolio and more than 10 of these exceeded 200%. In certain
cases, Pfizer supported up to 600% of baseline demand. Of note, our global revenue from our
Sterile Injectable portfolio grew 15% operationally in the first quarter and increased 6%
sequentially compared to fourth quarter of 2019. Additionally, more than 90% of our Injectables
portfolio is in stock today.
Our global Biosimilars portfolio grew 63% operationally to $288 million in the quarter. The
increase was driven largely by steady growth in the US, thanks to a strong performance of
RETACRIT and continued progress with Inflectra, which was up 46% due to increased demand in
open-systems, partially offset by price erosion. We also have launched three therapeutic
monoclonal antibody oncology biosimilars in the US over the past few months and we are
encouraged by our initial engagements with payers and providers, where we have not seen the
negative impact of exclusionary contracting by the innovator companies that we had seen with
the Inflectra launch.As expected for -- revenues for our Upjohn business were down 37% operationally in the quarter
to $2 billion. The decline was primarily driven by the expected significant volume declines for
Lyrica in the US due to multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019. Upjohn revenues
in China declined 41% operationally, primarily driven by anticipated declines for Lipitor and
Norvasc, primarily resulting from the value-based procurement program, which was initially
implemented in March 2019 and expanded nationwide beginning in December of 2019. These
declines were consistent with our previous guidance for the Upjohn business. Regarding Upjohn's
combination with Mylan, the industrial logic continues to be very attractive. While we pushed all
the expected timing of the deal close to the second half of 2020 mostly due to administrative
delays related to COVID-19, there is no change in our commitment to the transaction and we
continue to move forward with all pre-closing activities and initiatives. Last week, the European
Commission approved the proposed transaction, subject to divestment of certain of Mylan's
generic medicines.
Turning now to R&D, we continue to be excited with the progress we are making with our pipeline
and the potential it has to deliver significant benefits to patients across a range of therapeutic
areas. Since our last earnings call on January 28th, we have seen some exciting milestones. We
announced top line results from a Phase 3 study of Pfizer's 20-valent pneumococcal conjugate
vaccine in adults 18 years of age or older. The vaccine candidate demonstrated a safety and
immunogenicity profile comparable to licensed pneumococcal vaccines and we expect to file the
adult 20-valent pneumococcal indication with the FDA in early fourth quarter of 2020.
We are -- announced we are encouraged about our potential maternal RSV vaccine, which had a
recent Phase 2 readout with preliminary positive data with favorable tolerability and safety. And
Phase 3 start is projected within a few months and we look forward to discussing this data with
regulators.
We announced positive top line results from a third Phase 3 trial of abrocitinib, a study which
evaluated the safety and efficacy of abrocitinib in adults with moderate to severe atopic
dermatitis, who were also on background topical therapy and included an active control arm
treated with dupilumab plus background topical therapy met both of its co-primary efficacy
endpoints. In the key secondary endpoint, the proportion of patients in the abrocitinib 200
milligram arm that achieved a clinically significant reduction in each, by week two was statistically
superior to the dupilumab arm, while the 100 milligram abrocitinib arm was numerically higher, but
not statistically significantly higher than the dupilumab arm at week two. These data along with
the results from other positive monotherapy pivotal trials will support regulatory filings, starting
with the FDA planned for later this year.
Our filing for tanezumab was accepted for review in March at both the FDA and EMA. We are
pursuing approval for the 2.5 milligram dose administered subcutaneously in patients with chronic
pain due to moderate to severe osteoarthritis who have failed prior analgesics. In the US, we
expect an Advisory Committee meeting later this year and a decision from the FDA in December,
a decision from the EU regulators is expected next year.
Our ACC/DGAT2 inhibitor combination has achieved positive results in the Phase 2 proof-of-
concept study for NASH. Data from that study will be served at an upcoming Congress. The
licensed ANGPTL3 antisense oligonucleotide project successfully concluded the Phase 1/2a part
of the program, meeting its primary endpoint and multiple secondary endpoints. The program
has advanced towards Phase 2b with a focus on two indications, severe hypertriglyceridemia and
cardiovascular risk reduction.Preliminary results in our Phase 1b Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene therapy study support the
continuation of the trial and the start off a Phase 3 program, which is anticipated to begin dosing
patients in the second half of 2020, subject to regulatory approvals, of course. The Phase 1b trial
continues despite the current COVID-19 pandemic because of the urgent need of these patients
and their families. We will be sharing more results from this trial on May 15th at the American
Society for Gene and Cell Therapy Conference.
Despite a brief pause in clinical trial recruitment, most of our key pipeline programs continue to
move forward. The anticipated timing for top line data from the Phase 3 Ibrance PALLAS study
remains early 2021, for example, because the study was already fully enrolled before the pause.
20-valent pneumococcal adult studies also have completed and we're just waiting on the results.
We look forward to rescheduling our Investor Day previously scheduled for March 31st once we
have a clear picture of the evolving guidelines regarding COVID-19.
So now, before I turn it over to Frank, I would like to give you a broader view of our reaffirmed
2020 financial guidance for Total Pfizer. Pfizer and Upjohn combined, which I see as a strong
message regarding the strength and resilience of our business. I will speak to Total Pfizer and
Frank will provide more specifics in his comments. Since our initial 2020 guidance was provided in
January, we have seen three incremental factors that we have incorporated into our guidance.
R&D investments we have made and plan to make during 2020 to combat COVID-19, the
projected COVID-19 impact and other operational impact items on our operations in terms of the
P&L, and changes in foreign exchange rates.
In terms of the first factor, as you have seen us announce already, we see promising science-
based opportunity in terms of combating COVID-19. In support of this highly important initiative,
we are increasing our projected R&D investment for 2020 by $500 million. This predominantly
reflects the investment in our COVID-19 vaccine development collaboration with BioNTech, which
is rapidly moving forward.
Regarding the second factor, we have analyzed the changing dynamics within our markets and
believe that we are likely to see more negative impacts during the second quarter, driven
primarily by reductions in new patient starts due to reduced office visits and diagnostic testing
and lower levels of elective surgeries, but we are modeling an overall economic recovery
beginning in the second half of this year with an expectation that healthcare activity will approach
pre-COVID-19 levels later in the year.
Obviously, there are still uncertainties, but we believe we do have a resilient business model and
a clear line of sight for our business as compared with those in many other sectors of the
economy. Our portfolio comprises medicines where we see potential different types of impact
from the COVID-19 pandemic. Some are medically necessary such Eliquis and Ibrance, but also
more reliant on continuing patients. Some are generally more reliant on new patient starts, such
as Vyndaqel or Chantix or used in certain surgeries and still other medicines that have been
identified as medically necessary in the pandemic such as some of our hospital sterile injectable
products and are seeing increased utilization because of the COVID-19 crisis. Also remember that
a large proportion of our portfolio is made up of oral or self-injective medicines and that do not
require a visit to infusion center or doctor's office. In addition, a majority of revenue for our
portfolio is derived from specialty pharmacy channels, which enables direct delivery of these
medicines to patients. Both are positive factors in the current environment. Given that, we
anticipated a blended impact of COVID-19.
Let me offer a few specifics regarding how we are projecting the COVID-19 pandemic to impact
our larger revenue growth drivers. Medicines such as Ibrance and Eliquis both are expected tocontinue to generate new patient starts, but they are also more mature and therefore more
dependent on maintenance therapy with continuing patients. Both are oral medicines, leaders in
their categories and very well known to physicians. Attributes such as Eliquis note its safety
profile, which does not require regular monitoring, may provide an opportunity for appropriate
patients with an alternative treatment option during this time. As for Ibrance, while we would
expect to see some minimal impact in new patient starts for Ibrance in second quarter, we also
expect to see a catch-up in the second half of the year.
Vyndaqel is a good example of a recently launched product, not only it's highly dependent on
new patient starts, but the diagnosis process also requires a doctor's office visit and subsequent
diagnostic testing through additional office visits. We anticipate a drop in new patient starts and
are seeing that currently -- and we are seeing that currently, but we believe the strong
momentum behind this program will resume in the second half of the year in terms of diagnosis,
prescribing and patient access.
Regarding Prevnar, while we anticipate a temporary slowdown in vaccinations in the second
quarter, we believe that a resurgence in infant vaccinations to catch up could take place in the
second half of the year. And for adults, we anticipate there will be heightened awareness of the
importance of getting vaccinated prior to the next flu season.
As of Xeljanz, in a category where many other products are infusions, Xeljanz provide an oral
options for patients, which should be well suited to the current environment. Because Xeljanz has
been in the market for more than eight years, a large proportion of its revenues is driven by
continuing patients. It also has broad payer access and patient copay support. We expect to see
temporary impact to new patient starts for Xeljanz in the second quarter, but again, we expect to
see a recovery in the second half of the year.
Where we are seeing a more pronounced negative impact is with medicines that might not seem
as obvious. Chantix for example, which is generally prescribed during a well visit with a physician.
And BMP, which is used in elective surgeries would be two products I would highlight here in this
category. So when looking across the portfolio, we don't see this as revenue that will be lost
forever, but mainly as deferred revenue to be slowly recouped as the pandemic eases and we
see a normalization of interactions between our sales force and physicians and between
physicians and patients. As a result, we believe that the anticipated net impact of these factors in
combination with some non-COVID-related operational improvements should be negligible in
terms of our total company revenue rate projections for 2020. We have also reduced our SI&A
guidance for the year. This reflects reduced spending on both direct and indirect SI&A during the
first quarter, as well as some additional efficiencies identified for the remainder of 2020 in our
indirect SI&A reduction initiatives. Lastly, regarding foreign exchange, since our initial guidance in
January, the US dollar has strengthened, which drives an expected reduction of our revenues of
approximately $600 million and negatively impacts adjusted earnings per share by approximately
$0.04.
Bringing this all together now, our current view of the underlying strength, breadth and projected
resilience of our business in this uncertain times allow us to absorb both incremental $500 million
in projected R&D investment this year and the incrementally negative foreign exchange impact to
maintain our initial guidance ranges on both the top and bottom lines. In addition, I see the long-
term fundamentals of our business remaining strong. And following the completion of the Upjohn
transaction, I expect our business to be positioned to generate at least 6% compound annual
revenue growth through 2025. We expect adjusted EPS obviously to grow even faster.
Now, I will turn it over to Frank. Frank?`Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
Thanks, Albert. Good day, everyone. Before I walk you through our results for the quarter, I want
to comment on the current global pandemic, which is impacting nearly every industry around the
world. Despite the challenges inherent in operating in this environment, the fundamentals of our
business continue to be strong and our outlook for the future of the company remains bright. We
continue to have a strong balance sheet and favorable credit rating, which we expect to allow us
to access the capital markets as needed, which was demonstrated in late March with the issuance
of a $1.25 billion sustainability bond, the first of its kind in our industry. On the supply side, all 49 of
our manufacturing facilities remain operational and we have not seen a significant disruption in
our supply chain as a result of the pandemic.
To ensure the safety of our manufacturing colleagues while they perform this critical work, we
have put in place enhanced safety measures at all of our plants, including investing in protective
equipment, staggering shifts so that fewer colleagues are present at once, restricting site access
to only essential workers and requiring colleagues to log their contacts while on site. I want to
acknowledge how proud I am of the way our colleagues, many of whom are on the front lines in
this fight, have responded to this crisis with courage and passion from those who are working
around the clock on potential treatments or vaccines for COVID-19 to those who continue to
operate our manufacturing and supply chains to ensure patients can have the medicines they
need. It is in times like these that the strength of our culture and of our people really shines.
Now, on to the financials. First quarter 2020 revenues were $12 billion, down 7% operationally
versus the year-ago quarter. Of course, most of this decline is due to the fact that we no longer
report revenues for our Consumer Healthcare business. Excluding this impact, revenues were
down 1% operationally. As Albert already explained in detail, our Biopharma revenues grew 12%
operationally this quarter, driven by strength across multiple products with approximately 1
percentage point of that growth attributable to the net impact of COVID-19 on product sales.
Upjohn revenues declined 37% operationally driven by generic competition for Lyrica in the US
and declining sales of Lipitor and Norvasc in China due to the implementation and nationwide
expansion of the volume-based procurement program. Importantly, both of these negative
drivers were anticipated in our previous Upjohn guidance.
For total company, adjusted SI&A expenses in the quarter were down 16% operationally,
approximately half of that decline was due to the fact that we no longer report expenses for the
Consumer Healthcare business, the remainder of the decrease was driven by reductions in field
force, advertising and promotional expenses due to the LOE of Lyrica in the US and lower selling
expenses for Lipitor and Norvasc in China due to volume-based procurement, as well as lower
indirect SI&A spending associated with corporate enabling functions.
Both reported and adjusted diluted EPS for the first quarter were down compared to the year-
ago quarter. The decrease was primarily due to lower revenues mainly driven by the loss of
exclusivity for Lyrica in the US, partially offset by lower SI&A expenses. Finally, foreign exchange
had a negative impact of $134 million or 1% on first quarter 2020 revenues and a $0.02 negative
impact on adjusted diluted EPS compared to the year-ago quarter.
Before walking you through our guidance updates in detail, I want to acknowledge that no one
currently knows exactly how and in what timeframe the COVID-19 pandemic will progress and
eventually come to its resolution. Given those uncertainties, along with our desire to be as
transparent as possible, we are providing on this chart the key COVID-19-related assumptions
that are reflected in today's guidance update. In summary, our financial guidance reflects our
expectation that most healthcare systems around the world will begin to resume their normalfunctions in the second half of 2020, including in-person doctor visits, new to brand prescription
trends, sales force activities and clinical trial enrollment. The guidance also assumes we will be
able to continue to operate our manufacturing and supply chain without material disruption and
that we will continue to invest in potential treatments and vaccines against COVID-19 throughout
2020.
With that, let's take a look at our guidance. Consistent with last quarter, we are providing three
sets of financial guidance. As a reminder, those three sets of guidance are as follows. Total
company, which reflects our current construct of the Biopharma and Upjohn businesses and
excludes any impact from the pending Upjohn combination with Mylan. Two, New Pfizer, which is a
full year pro forma view that reflects the impact of the pending Viatris transaction by removing
Upjohn and including $12 billion in cash proceeds from Upjohn to New Pfizer and other
transaction-related factors such as transitional, service agreement revenue, and three, Upjohn as
a standalone business. Let me remind you that the Upjohn guidance includes the Meridian
business and our collaboration with Mylan in Japan as we discussed last quarter. All of these
scenarios continue to be based a full year of revenues and expenses in 2020.
Beginning with total company, as Albert mentioned, we are reaffirming our guidance ranges for
both revenue and adjusted diluted EPS despite absorbing incremental negative impacts due to
foreign exchange fluctuations since mid-January of approximately $600 million on revenue and
$0.04 on adjusted diluted EPS. Moving down the income statement, we lowered our cost of sales
as a percentage of revenue guidance range by 0.4 percentage points to reflect favorability
resulting from changes in product mix and other efficiencies. For selling information and
administrative expenses, we are lowering our guidance range by $500 million. This reflects
incremental cost savings opportunities, primarily related to indirect SI&A spending as well as
actual and anticipated spending reductions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and as Albert
already spoke about the $500 million upward revision to our R&D expense range. Finally, our
guidance continues to anticipate no share repurchases in 2020.
Moving on to financial guidance for New Pfizer and Upjohn, despite absorbing negative
incremental impacts on revenues due to changes in foreign exchange rates since mid-January of
approximately $500 million for New Pfizer and $100 million for Upjohn, we are reaffirming the
fiscal year 2020 revenue guidance ranges for both pro forma companies. Additionally, we are
reaffirming the guidance ranges for adjusted IBT margin and adjusted diluted EPS for New Pfizer,
as well as adjusted EBITDA for Upjohn. The only change to the guidance we gave for New Pfizer
is a $1 billion reduction in the range for operating cash flow driven entirely by a $1.25 billion
voluntary US pension contribution, which we plan to make in the second half of 2020.
Moving on to key takeaways. In the first quarter of 2020, our company performed well in a
challenging environment driven by strong revenue growth from our Biopharma business. We
reaffirmed our 2020 guidance for revenues and adjusted diluted EPS and we achieved multiple
product and pipeline milestones since our last quarterly update, some of which are listed here
demonstrating the continued advancement of our late-stage pipeline. Finally, we paid $2.1 billion
in dividends to our shareholders this quarter. As always, we remain committed to delivering
attractive shareholder returns in 2020 and beyond.
Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.
`Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks Frank and thanks Albert for those comments. Operator, can we please now poll for
questions?Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan
Stanley.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thanks very much for the detailed review and congratulations on the performance. So, I had
two questions, please. First is with respect to the guidance and the second is on the vaccine
candidate. So, with respect to the guidance and the assumptions on slide 13, could you just
discuss what you're assuming with respect to a potential resurgence in COVID during the start of
the flu season in the fourth quarter and the impact of that on healthcare systems and physician
visits? And then second, with respect to your vaccine candidate with BioNtech, could you just
discuss your level of conviction that you have the right candidate that will be safe and effective?
And when do you expect to generate animal data and when do you expect to generate initial
human data? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Dave, thank you very much. Very good questions as usual. The first one with guidance, let me ask
Frank to make comments about the assumptions.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
So, David, on our guidance, we are assuming a recovery in the second half of the year. We expect
the second quarter to be the quarter that's primarily impacted in a negative way from the
COVID-19 virus, but we do expect a recovery in the second half of the year and that includes the
items that we talked about in our comments, in-person doctor visits start up again, new to brand
prescription trends, sales force activities, clinical trial enrollment and obviously all of our sites
continuing to operate and provide medicines to patients the way that they're currently doing
today. So punchline, second half recovery and the healthcare system returns to normal
operations.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Frank. And now, Mikael, I think you would like to comment on the vaccine. Before let
me say just one thing on the vaccine drugs. This is a new technology, but we are very familiar with
both the technology and the company because we are working with them the last two years in a
joint project to develop, with the same technology, a flu vaccine. So we jump into the COVID-19
when they need to merge jointly together and we are applying of course all the learnings of the -
- learnings that we've had with the technology during the last two years.
Now, Mikael, can you speak -- please speak more specifics about the -- this specific project?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you, Albert and Dave for asking this important question. I would start by saying I think we
have the most comprehensive SARS-CoV-2 vaccine program currently ongoing and it's specifically
related to mRNA. As Albert alluded to, we had built a lot of experience on the various type of
mRNA and the formulation of lipid nanoparticles through two years' work on flu and a lot of
different animal data coming from our work and work from BioNTech on both oncology and othertwo to three months moved from the drawing table to dosing patients right now, it contains, as
we have announced, four different vaccine candidates that will be started in humans, the first one
already dosed, and that allow us more than anyone to cherry-pick from a new disease like COV-
19 what mRNA type, what antigen is the most effective and allow us to pick one or two to move
into pivotal studies. So that covers unmodified mRNA, modified and self-amplifying. To the best
of my knowledge, we are the only one currently having self-amplified mRNA in the clinic, which
would allow you to dose at lower dose than any other construct. We already have animal data
from rodents on the various constructs that are encouraging and we also have data from patients
here that shows that the two antigen that we picked seems to be the most relevant for
intervening and utilizing viruses. And by having picked two spike or the smaller component
receptor binding domain, again, I think we will be able to cherry-pick what turns out to translate
most effectively in man. So more animal data will come over the next few weeks on primates and
I expect human data to come late May, June from the first experiments performed on plasma
from vaccinated patient and this is a unique trial design with continuous data flow that should
allow us to progress fast, share data with regulators. So we expect the flow of data coming May,
June and then move into expanded trials that could allow emergency use or accelerated
approval coming in the fall, possibly October and onwards. So thank you very much for your
question.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Mikael. And also let me add here what -- the reason also why we jumped into advice
[ph]. It's not only because we had the familiarity with the company, with the technology and we
have discussed this project that was very exciting, but also we have -- we are uniquely positioned
to help during this crisis because we have the end-to-end capabilities. We are having very strong
capabilities from early pre-clinical results all the way to manufacturing. And frankly, as we have, I
think, said, but I'll make it very clear now also. We are planning to manufacture at risk this vaccine.
So if the technical success and regulatory approvals are there, we will have doses available in --
during the last quarter of this year. And also, it would be an omission if I wouldn't mention right
now that how grateful we are with the advice and collaboration that FDA is giving us that they are
trying to work their timelines day and night as well, so that they can help bring to the world a
solution. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question, Chuck.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yeah. Next question. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Just two. First on Vyndaqel and the impact from COVID. It sounds like you're expecting a
slowdown in diagnosis rates in the quarter, should we also expect that Rxs and patients receiving
drug should also slow or could those actually keep ramping once you've identified a product they
can keep working through the process? My second question on Vyndaqel was also on payer mix.
You've had a little bit more experience with the product and we're still trying to get a sense of
where gross to net could shake out for the product. So any additional statistics here in terms of
how many patients are getting free drug, how many are reimbursed, just any data there would
be very helpful? My final question was on Prevnar in infants. Are your expectations for that
product for the year unchanged, so that we're going to obviously see get 2Q impact, but you getinfant expectations for the year coming down as that catch-up won't offset the lost sales in the
quarter? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Schott. I think all three questions are very well suited for Angela to answer. So, Angela,
why don't you start with Vyndaqel?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Great, thank you. Thanks for those questions, Chris. So firstly on Vyndaqel, as you can see, we
continue to have just great momentum behind this product and we do believe that this will
sustain its performance throughout the year. As Albert mentioned, we do think that there will be
some slowdown in NRxs in the second quarter. And actually just to align with those comments, we
did see that in our patient hub enrollments, and since the middle of March, we saw a decline of
about 20% in the last four weeks compared to the previous four weeks. So I think that this
comment about new patient starts is one that we are seeing in the patient hub. However, let's
also think about the great attributes of Vyndaqel. It's an oral medication. It's one that is being
delivered through specialty pharmacy directly to patients' homes and it's one that because of its
mortality benefits decreases hospitalizations, all of these really play well to the time that we're in
right now in this pandemic. And so we anticipate our continuing patients to be able to continue on
their drug and be able to stay on therapy. So no impact on TRxs.
Your second question was around the payer mix. And on that front, we have not seen a change in
terms of the numbers of patients on commercial, this is Medicare versus other books of business.
That has been pretty consistent through the time from launch and our Medicare patients are the
predominant part of our patient population and that hasn't changed at all.
And then I think your third question was on Prevnar Ps [ph]. And on Prevnar Ps, similarly consistent
with comments made earlier. We do anticipate second quarter to have some slowdown and this
is just because, while business aren't taking place, there is a lot more caution regarding visits to
pediatricians' offices, so we do anticipate some slowdown there, but we also know both from our
own research and from our representatives that pediatricians are anxious and are motivated to
get the well visits back and to have our infants as well as our children vaccinated. And therefore
based on that and based on the fact that we expect a recovery in second half per Frank's
comments about our assumptions, we do anticipate a catch-up towards the second half of the
year that will allow us to attain our expectations that we had for Ps for all of 2020.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Angela.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Angela. Operator, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, thanks so much for taking my question. I hope you all are staying safe. Mikael, on your antiviral
for COVID, you're going down the protease inhibitor track instead of the nuc. Maybe if you couldexplain the thought process and if you could also lay out for us the exact EC50s that you're
seeing with your 3CL inhibitor? And I ask because some of the initial 3CL inhibitor constructs you
had chosen against SARS, their EC50s were above 10. So I wonder, if you are seeing something
closer to a 1 on the protease inhibitor you've chosen? And secondly, on COVID vaccine, Mikael,
I'm curious, what's the exact threshold on utilizing antibody tighter that you want to see for you to
say, you know what, we have something?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Umer. So Mikael, the space is yours.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Umer. Great questions here.
So let's start with the protease inhibitors. We had a privileged -- this isn't just re-purposed
protease inhibitor for a -- from a distant relative, we had a collection of compounds that showed
very potent activity to the SARS-CoV-1 and we were able to model and show that its very strong
similarity in the binding and have confirmed that these compounds on the SARS-CoV-2, the
COVID-19 disease are very potent. We are talking about very potent nanomolar type of binding
and this is supported by X-ray data available that shows again unique, highly selective binding
patterns. We are now doing cellular antiviral studies, which initial data is encouraging again
showing potent activity which needs to be studied on different cell types, where the virus may be
harbored. Altogether, we think these are very promising drug candidates and we are moving
swiftly ahead with scaling up, adding other IND type of data to potentially pending regulatory
dialogues that have initiated able to dose patients around August this year.
We're also working on oral follow-on drugs and have identified several candidates that show
suitability for this type of delivery system. So all together, I feel very encouraged that this could
be the first-in-class protease drug for SARS-CoV-2 and we'll keep you posted as we advance. On
the vaccine, clearly we are looking at what could be animal data guiding us on what should be the
relevant thresholds in order to have neutralization of virus and we have in discussion with
regulators gotten good feedback on data from multiple animal models that we are pursuing that
could help to possibly even create a surrogate endpoint. We're also looking at convalescent
serum from patients to understand which of those that are used for treatment intervention
guides us and we will actually use those also in intervention models. So while we expect in our
Phase 2 study later summer, Q3 early, to generate human data on our vaccine when it comes to
impact on events, these will be supplemented by multiple animal models and plasma levels of
neutralizing antibodies used in transfusion therapies. So all-in-all, a multi-pronged approach to nail
down the type of levels we should be aiming for and to keep with the most aspirational goal of
getting a vaccine that can be considered for emergency use accelerated approval around Q3 this
year. Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Mikael. And also to add that with the antiviral as we did with the vaccines, we are
producing at-risk clinical material. So in case we decide to go in the summer into clinical studies,
as Mikael said, we will be able to do it immediately. Great. Chuck, to the next question.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yes. Next question, please?Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, thanks for taking the questions. Maybe two for me. The first is, given the current environment,
I was just wondering if there are any changes to how you're approaching capital allocation here?
Do you expect M&A and business development opportunities to increase? I think you had talked
on your fourth quarter call about potentially finalizing some deals in the first half of the year. So
just wondering, if there's been any change on that front? And then my second question is on your
20-valent pneumococcal disease program. We've now seen the top line data for the adult Phase
3 setting come out. Just wondering, what outstanding questions are left to you on that program
as you look ahead on the forward and securing the filing in the fourth quarter? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you very much. Frank, would you like to make some comments on the capital allocation?
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
Sure. So Terence on capital allocation, our priorities remain the same, which are obviously
dividends and we paid a $2.1 billion dividend to our shareholders this quarter, investing in the
business and then obviously M&A, so mergers and acquisitions. And clearly, there has been some
value reset in the industry and you can see some of that with some of the biotechs and obviously
as we always do, we'll look for opportunities where we think it's a good deal for our company and
for our shareholders. The one thing I want to balance this with though is even though valuations
reset, Board of Directors and management teams' expectations don't necessarily reset at the
same pace. So that's always something we have to work our way through. But from a high-level
priority perspective, our capital allocation priorities remain the same.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Frank. And then, Mikael, is there anything that we are waiting more on pneumococcal
adult or are -- you think you can file?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
We are very confident in the pneumococcal adult after a completion of the main efficacy study
that we have done a press release and it has the immunogenicity, safety and tolerability that we
were looking for. We also recently had a lot consistency study to readout, which again showed
similar grade profile for the 20-valent to be used in the adult setting. We are still having one study
that is for patients previously immunized with a pneumococcal vaccine that will be coming shortly.
But for naive patients, we do have all data available looking like a very strong profile and weighing
just to supplement with the dataset coming on previously immunized, which -- this would be to
expand the coverage and that's why we feel very confident about filing. And you heard from
Albert's introduction that we've moved it to early Q4. Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `That's great. Operator, can we go to the next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Randall Stanicky, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets from RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Randall Stanicky, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Great, thanks guys. Just two questions probably both for Angela. Can you just talk about the
Ibrance trends, particularly the EU5 price headwinds? When did those update and how should we
think about Ibrance growth for this year? And then just a follow-up on Vyndaqel. The 13%
diagnosis rate, it's a nice jump from 4Q of 9%. Any change to where you guys think that can
ultimately get to putting aside near-term headwinds from COVID? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Angela, go ahead.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure. So on Ibrance in the EU, I want to affirm that our fundamentals and our growth for Ibrance in
the EU continues to be really strong. And we continue to see great growth opportunities into the
future. Right now, the first-line metastatic breast cancer share of the CDK class is only at 38, so
there is room for growth here and we do have a strong leading market share of 68% of all CDKs.
So I think just right there, you can see that there are continued opportunities for growth and that
is how we see it.
We saw very strong double-digit growth for Ibrance in volume. And what you didn't see and why
that didn't translate into net sales is because we negotiated a number of very large contracts
with certain large European countries. Many of these happened in Q4 of 2019. And because
these contracts are multi-year, what you get here now is some stability in that and so this has
allowed us to re-base our business. And so those impacts are already included in our guidance.
And because of the timing of when these contracts were signed, we expect to return to net sales
growth in the second half of 2020. So all-in-all, I think it's just the timing and the year-on-year
comparison that is driving the effect of what you're seeing from a net sales perspective, but I
want to reaffirm that our fundamentals are strong, the value proposition of Ibrance is strong and
we continue to see tremendous growth opportunities both for the class as well as our own share.
Your next question was about Vyndaqel, and I think your question was around just sort of
diagnosis and whether we're seeing anything particular there. And no. I mean, the strategies that
we have deployed from the beginning, which is to find a heightened awareness around which
patients we should suspect for ATTR-CM and then have those patients be then diagnosed
through scintigraphy continues to be the mainstay of how we are generating diagnosis. With time,
we are deploying and we're experimenting with our artificial intelligence and different sort of
predictive models that might allow us to again support the suspicion of these patients, but I
would say that our strategies have been rather consistent since launch and I think that the
diagnosis rates that we're seeing tell us that what we've been doing is working well. There is
great receptivity for this product, both from physicians as well as from patients. We are very
active on the education front both from a diagnosis and from a treatment perspective. So, I think
that what we've been doing has -- is really working well and we'll continue to do so.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `Operator
Your next question comes from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. On your 20-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, just an update on timing for
when we are likely to see the Phase 3 trial start in Ps to keep that gap with Merck as small as
possible? And then second question on adjuvant Ibrance. Just an update on timing of when we
will see the data and when you do top line that, are you likely to disclose any results or is it just
going to be a qualitative top line? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Yes, thank you very much. Let me take quickly the adjuvant and then Mikael please answer the
20-valent and add if you have anything on the adjuvant. We have not run any interim analysis yet
on PALLAS study and we expect, as we said before, the study will come to conclusion. Actually, it
will come to completion, which means that we'll not stop to expect during the interim because
we have set very high criteria for stopping. So typically, we do not announce when we have
interim analysis data and visibility, unless if we stop. So as I said, we don't have data, we haven't
performed an analysis yet, an analysis hasn't has been performed. Typically, we don't announce it
and the study will come to completion as expected early in 2021. So Mikael, on the 20-valent -- on
the Ps when we can start the Phase 3 and if you have to add something on the PALLAS?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you very much Albert and Tim for the questions. We -- after that press release of the three
injections immunization of the PED [ph], we later shared that the fourth dose further substantiate
the data. We have had extensive regulatory dialogues in the US and elsewhere and shared all
those datasets. So we are planning to start the PED, PCV20 very soon. We're talking likely about
just a few weeks to be clear. So that's our projected plans right now. And I think you said very well
on the adjuvant Ibrance studies that we feel very optimistic and good about them and just waiting
for them to report on the date that we have communicated.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Angela, do you want to add anything on the pediatric marketplace as we see it
potentially playing out?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure, Chuck. So as we said, we will launch tentatively after the Merck 15. However, we don't
anticipate that the ACIP will make a preferential recommendation between the two. And
therefore, we believe that PCV13 will compete with PCV15 until the PCV20 comes to market. And
we are confident of our PCV13, it has tremendous experience with healthcare professionals, we
have a very strong account management developed through our -- with our customers through
the years that we've been on the market and we also have a very reliable supply track record.
And so despite the -- there may be gap in launches, we anticipate to be competing in the market
and to continue to support the benefits of PCV13 to infants.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great, thank you. Operator, can we please move to the next question?Operator
Your next question is from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor from Cantor.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions here. So my first question for you is, do you have any update or
more details on the go-forward strategy for Pfizer post the Upjohn separation? As it pertains to
M&A pipeline assets, what you're thinking about there? And then what in your DMD Phase 1b data
gave you confidence to move into Phase 3 studies? Where are you with manufacturing and what
type of data do you think you will report out at ASGCT? And then my last question here is just
back on PCV20. Just curious, if you think from the adult side that the ACIP recommendation
would change at all if you were to get approved for PCV20? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you. Let me maybe speak a little bit on the strategy on M&A and then John also can add to
that. And then I will ask Mikael on the DMD. And then maybe Angela on the PCV20, again, how
ACIP will do the adults.
On the go-forward strategy, our side is very clear and will remain the same. Post the expected
separation with Upjohn, Pfizer will become a top line best-in-class growth story. And we are
feeling more and more confident about it. We are strengthening our language around the 6%.
Today, I said at least 6% we will grow and that we expect that will continue. Now, the M&A is not a
strategy, it is a tool to support the strategy. And that's why the M&A in the past were much more
geared towards buying revenues or buying earnings growth by big mergers that could cut cost
because this is what we needed at that time. Right now moving forward, we are not in a need to
buy EPS. Our EPS will grow organically as our revenues will grow organically. So our M&A, although
we never say never on anything on M&A, right now it is -- we will continue that -- our strategy is
not to go to a big M&A for the following three reasons. One, it is that very few targets will
provide -- will not dilute our growth, very few. Most of them will grow less than us, so we'll have
dilution. Secondly that targets usually they want a significant premium and those makes me feel
that most of the values captured by the shareholders of the acquirer, like the one that is making
the acquisition and, of course, those big acquisitions are creating some distractions, which R&D
could be an issue. So these are the considerations.
In terms of saying where are we going to invest our capital if this is not our first priority for the
reasons that I said, we are going to invest in early Phase 2, Phase 3 ready-to-start potential
medicines that could be part of our pipeline, so that we will strengthen the pipeline that is coming
post -- as products post '25, '26, '27, '28, so that we can sustain the growth that already we feel
very confident we have organically or in the next five, six years. So that's on our strategy and
M&A. Now, DMD, Mikael, what makes you optimistic?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. Thank you very much. I mean, it's such a transformative area treating these boys with
Duchenne. So we have now treated as you will learn more at the conference 11 patients, eight of
them at the high dose of 3e to the 14 and we continue to show -- see very consistent data on
efficacy looking at the dystrophin expression, the distribution of the dystrophin. And as we have
treated more patients and the early boys that were treated, we have now longer observation
period, we can also see that durability seems to exceed 12 months when it comes to the gene
expression, which makes us feeling very good that this could be a long durability for these boysallow us again to add another level of confidence that we are changing the health of the muscles.
And finally for the motor function, well, you use clinical scales, we have seen now across a
number of treated boys a favorable data on the Northstar Index. And I want to point out that we
have seen it across different ages, because if you mainly monitor early boys for this, they do have
some spontaneous improvement that could be difficult to differ from treatment in use, but we
have also seen it on older boys, where you expect decline, but we have noted improvement
instead. So all-in-all, we feel that we have now accumulated a very robust dataset on efficacy and
we have learnt important experiences how to mitigate risk and manage any possible safety
event. Of course, we have one of the largest effort on new therapy manufacturing that has been
expanding in North Carolina and that will all come together now in our plans to start Phase 3 trials
in just a few months. So thank you for your interest.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Mikael. Really, a very exciting news for these boys, particularly that they have virtually
no solutions right now. Angela, what about our views on what could be the recommendations of
ACIP on the adult pneumococcal vaccine, the PCV20 and competition?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Yes. So we're really excited about our PCV20 program and specifically about the breadth that of
serotype coverage that PCV20 provides and we really see the benefit in two ways. One, first of
all, these incremental stereotypes are associated with high case totality rates, antibiotic
resistance and/or meningitis. So these are sort of serious diseases that these serotypes will be
able to cover. But also relative to PCV15, PCV20 is expected to provide 33% more coverage
against IPD strains in adults. So with these data, our plan is to bring this forward to the CDC, anti-
regulatory authority, we will certainly be discussing recommendations and what all this means, but
I think in the end, we all know that this is a decision that the CDC needs to make and we will be
having these conversations with them as our program develops. But certainly, we feel very
strongly about the potential benefits and the additional coverage that PCV20 can provide. And
we'll keep you posted with what happens with the CDC. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Angela. And John, do you have to add any comments on our go-forward strategy,
given that you are managing this area very successfully right now and particularly on M&A targets
or licensing targets that we have?
A - `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer `
Thanks, Albert, and thanks for the question. Obviously, we don't talk about specific targets as you
all know, but I think Albert sort of really hit on the sort of main points in our -- in his answer, which
is we feel really good about the prospects for the continued growth of our core business. In
terms of business development to strengthen that, our focus is absolutely on clinical stage
assets. I think Frank touched on this in his answer to capital allocation earlier on, but we're really
very focused on clinical stage assets that could complement our existing internal pipeline that we
feel good about. So we're going to be focused on areas including oncology, where there could
be interesting tuck-ins. We're going to be looking at rare disease. There's a lot of innovation
taking place there and I think we're uniquely placed because of the capabilities and
manufacturing and development that Mikael has touched on to add to our pipeline. And we
continue to look across our other areas as well as select opportunities. So we think there are
opportunities out there. We are -- continue to be very active in this space, but, of course, we'reoptimizes value for our shareholders, but most importantly for our patients. So I think between
Albert's and Frank's answers, hopefully that gives you a flavor of how we feel about capital
deployment and business development for our business strategy post the separation of Upjohn.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you very much. And I'm not sure if we answered also the question on DMD about
manufacturing. And yes, we feel very good about manufacturing. Our investments are
progressing very nicely and we will be able to manufacture at scale for the DMD, provided that
it's successful and ready. So Chuck, please go to the next question.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yes. Please, let's move to the next, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. I have a few questions. First on abrocitinib, I believe only the higher dose was better
than Dupixent, but there were safety issues at that dose and it was not superior on itch. It seems
the outlook is not all that positive. You obviously think differently. So could you explain? Secondly,
you spoke about the PALLAS trial. But to clarify the PENELOPE-B neoadjuvant trial, did you say the
readout is now Q1 of '21? We had thought it was likely to be top line this year. And then lastly, can
you just quantify the Eliquis stocking in the quarter? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you very much. I will very quickly answer the PENELOPE. No, the PENELOPE is expected to
come in the second half of this year. The PALLAS is expected to come early next year. This is
exactly as we have said it before. Mikael, why do you -- are you excited about abrocitinib?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. We are very excited about abrocitinib. And let me just punctuate a few things. In the JADE
COMPARE study, we show that both high and medium doses met co-primary endpoint in very
effectively reducing eczema. We had a key secondary endpoint of comparing itch to Dupixent's
standard-of-care and this is one of the most patient-centric endpoint impacting quality of life both
day and night time. And the high dose statistically significantly showed better effects clinically
meaningful than Dupixent, while the lower dose, the 100 milligram numerically was better, but
didn't reach statistical significance. Overall, what we see is more rapid onset with our oral
abrocitinib than the biological depiction. And we see a more rapid onset numerically whether you
look at skin clearance or whether you see -- look at itch. And while there is some more infections
always with higher doses of JAK inhibitors, we think and I believe that the benefit versus the risk is
still very favorable. These are mild to moderate cases, most attenuate and basically all attenuate
if you discontinue treatment. And I want to finally emphasize that we have a very exciting
additional trial that is not necessary for filing, but it's coming later this year, the trial regimen, that
will study if you start on the 200 milligram, which we know will clear skin, reduce itch much faster
than standard-of-care and then you can switch maintenance to the 100 milligram, which likely
have a lower level of any adverse event, including infection. So that give you potentially max
flexibility to treat and clean up itch and skin and go on a lower dose. But again, the benefit risk toto moderate and can easily be managed and are quite common for patients treated by
dermatologists. So I feel very good about high dose being superior and the lower dose being
somewhat similar to Dupixent, still having faster onset of action numerically and is oral and very
convenient to take. I hope that gave you a good sense why I feel encouraged to see these new
treatment options for patients moving to regulatory discussions and hopefully soon available.
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you, Mikael. And Angela, what about the inventory levels, can you explain of Eliquis?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Yes. In terms of just Eliquis impact, what we saw was an uptick in terms of inventory levels to
prepare for the pandemic and the impact was about in the mid single-digits in terms of
worldwide revenue.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great, thank you. We have time for a couple more questions, operator. Can we move to the next
one?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. I know that you've added a couple of very distinguished scientists to Board, you've
also added the former FDA commissioner under your tenure, Albert, as well as the Mylan
transaction. Should we think about this has been accelerated evolution of Pfizer in terms of trying
to improve the ROI that has had historically on R&D? And if so, aside from the measures that you
outlined, perhaps you could highlight any other internal, either organizational or talent enrichment
that's gone on that also points in that direction?
And then second to Mike. Pfizer seems to have pivoted away from immuno-oncology as many
others have done, given the disappointments post PD1. If we do see the emergence of novel IO
targets such as TIGIT and there's some others out there with randomized Phase 2 trials, should I
assume that Pfizer's willing to reengage back in that field? And I know I'm exaggerating in terms
of binary, but it does seem that you have pivoted back towards more molecules? And then finally
if you could comment on the anticipated treatment duration in the real world setting for PALLAS,
given the issues with adverse events as well as reimbursement friction for Medicare patients?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Yeah. Andrew, can you repeat the first part of your question, the ROI?
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Yeah. So I was basically saying that under your tenure Albert, there is a notable addition of three
individuals with high scientific calibers. So, obviously, the former FDA commissioner, but also two
very distinguished scientists, as well as decomplexifying the organization by the Upjohn
transaction. So when I think about the evolution of the business under Pfizer, it does seem that
the concerted attempt to try and shine more light or improve the ROI through some of thesemeasures. So I was asking, are there any other internal measures, talent enrichment inside the
organization or new R&D structures designed to improve R&D either through accelerating
programs, killing early, the normal stuff, but is something changed in the profile of improving the
ROI in R&D, particularly --?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
I got it now. No, thank you very much. Thank you very much. And the answer is absolutely yes. It is
not by chance that right now in our Board, we have five top scientists, four of them physicians,
top scientists that they have unique expertise either in regulatory science, they have unique
expertise in development, they have unique expertise in basic science both in primary care and
metabolic diseases and immunology. We have also through Susan Hockfield -- she was the
pioneer of bringing together the genomics data with computation power and she was the first
biologist and first woman to be a head of -- president of the MIT. And this is a very clear
statement, but Pfizer is different. Pfizer is a science-based company and this is where the growth
is coming. And we are adding those two Board members to provide also more visibility, but also
because they help us with their very high knowledge. Now, there is not one or two, there are
multiple measures that -- metrics that we are using to assess if indeed our R&D machine is a new
machine and if we can count on it in this new strategy and they are all pointing in this direction. I
think we've made very clear that Pfizer of the past, because you asked a question how -- if you
can kill quickly and if you can, let's say, progress things that they really matter rather than move
everything. Pfizer of the past had a success rate of Phase 2 studies of 15%. When I say of the
past, few years back, 15% when the industry was a third [ph]. Today, Pfizer's success rate, it is
close to 50%, 5-0, and that's on a rolling four years' assessment right now. And I'm sure next
year, we'll be 50% -- rolling 50%. And this is not the only one. In 2018, we were the company that
introduced most new molecular entities of anybody else who would expect apart from Pfizer and
we can go on and on. `John Young, Group President, Chief Business Officer has a very detailed list of criteria and he is monitoring the
governing process that is making sure that as we allocate capital, we allocate with R&D ROI in
mind. And also I will add that the speed with which the company is reacting has nothing to do with
the company of the past. And by the way, this is very well indicated in the way that we were able
to move better than any biotech in speeding developing vaccine or in the speeding developing
an antiviral. And the reason why we have been able to accomplish this speed in addition to be
cultural, it is also that we have break the company into five distinct business units, plus one -- six,
excuse me, six, together with hospitals, business units. And that each one of these business units,
for example, oncology, vaccines, rare diseases, they operate like a biotech. They make decisions
end-to-end from commercial to early R&D within this structure, like if I said, if they were a biotech
company and they are presenting their requests for finance and -- into the committee that John
Young is managing, so that we can allocate the capital. And last but not least, although Pfizer is
laser-focused on this and ROE of R&D as we are progressing, it was absolutely to avoid
misunderstanding, it was absolutely non -- of -- it was absolutely not one of our criteria when we
jumped into the COVID-19 programs. The only criteria that we used as we jumped into the
COVID-19 projects was if we are -- we can have a solution, if we can make the difference, if we
think that our technology is good one, so that we can bring a vaccine or an antiviral because this is
not times that ROIs will prevail for COVID-19, it is times that solutions will be found. So with that, I
hope I gave you some color on how Pfizer is changing and what is the meaning which is more
than symbolic of appointing the new Board members. And I go to Mikael to answer your second
question.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah, thank you for that question. We think one needs to be careful and not throw everythinghave learnt after the initial positioning of PDxs. One example is bifunctional antibodies. We have a
dose escalation of a BCMA bifunctional that looks very encouraging with subdued unique profile.
We have follow-on PD1 bifunctional with cytokines that can boost immune resistance and we have
oncolytic viruses. We were successful combining Inlyta with PDx and we're building on that
experience to now move from actually our Boulder unit former Array a small molecule this year
that we think is an immune enhancer for cancer an XLMR [ph] inhibitor. So I hope you got that
answer that we are cherry-picking the areas where we think we can break resistance to IO rather
than just throwing everything on to this area.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you very much for your questions, Andrew. So, Chuck?
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yes. Let's try to get a couple more in. Operator, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question is from `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Mizuho Securities from Mizuho Securities.
Q - `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
Great, thanks for taking my question. So one maybe following up on the abrocitinib question from
before, Steve's question for Mikael, I definitely get the enthusiasm you have on the efficacy side
and the convenience side. I guess, my question is just more on safety, now that you've seen the
COMPARE data and as we think about the filing, just your level of confidence on the label being
clean from some of the black box warnings we see for the current JAKs and tumor infections
malignancies, but obviously also BTEs. I think in talking to dermatologists, it feels like it will be
critical for it to be -- to not have a black box in order to compete with a product like Dupixent. So
maybe just you can share your views there. And then second one also on the immunology
pipeline. Your JAK3, the 1600, just curious on timing of that. I think clinical trial says that the trial is
expected to read out the Phase 2, Phase 3 expected in September of this year, but it also said
that's still recruiting patients. So just trying to get a better sense of when we might see data for
that product, I know it has breakthrough status. Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Thank you. Thank you, Vamil. Mikael, jump immediately.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. Abrocitinib, we have a large database. I feel very good about its profile. We have not seen
any cardiovascular issues. And that's really what is worrying about safety, while we see as
expected some viral skin infections, I consider them more of safety, tolerability and very mild and
moderate and can be well managed with standard experience in medical practice. I cannot
speculate about black box, that's really for regulators. Our JAK3 in alopecia has a very unique
profile. The most selective of all JAK that I have seen this far, I -- we think readout will be probably
as we have predicted mid-'21 and this is a pivotal study that could go quickly to filing. We do have
end of this year a number of JAK inhibitor readouts in the Phase 2, like JAK3 in vitiligo, we have
oral TYK2 in psoriasis and topical in atopic dermatitis. So we will keep you busy with the flow of
news. Thank you.Thank you, Mikael. Operator, can we get another question, please?
Operator
Your next question is from `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS from UBS.
Q - `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS `
Hi, thanks so much. Navin from UBS. Thanks for fitting me in. Mikael just wanted to just touch upon
the commentary with regards to the regulators allowing surrogate markers for the SARS-CoV-2
vaccine. Just want to dig into that a little bit more. What specifically will they be looking for that
allows speedy approval? And then I want to understand the manufacturing targets that you have
by year-end, if approved. If approved, I just want to understand, is it -- I'm assuming it's going to
be under a sort of expanded access use basis for healthcare workers. And then what do you
need from regulators for a broad approval for the general public, any kind of clarity around that
would be helpful?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Yeah. I do not know how the regulators would like to regulate that, so -- and I leave it to them. But
I can answer the question on the manufacturing. So we expect that we will have in the last quarter
of this year millions of doses basically ready. And then for '21, we could ramp up to hundreds of
millions of doses available. Now, Mikael may be a little bit you can answer the question about the
endpoints or the surrogate endpoints.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. No, there are of course interests, both regulators and farmers, to see how we can learn
maximally to allow potentially very important vaccine quickly to deal with this both medical and
business crisis. So we have had ample discussions with the highest level of regulatory leaders in
both US and Europe. So on the surrogate side or a two-animal guiding principle, if you can show
for life threatening diseases data and we are pursuing mice/hamsters as well as primate studies
that are ongoing and will hopefully show to us what level of immune activity interferes with the
virus. And we're also doing some I think really creative studies taking patient sera and testing
them how they can intervene in these models and trying to correlate convalescent patient
transfusions and what levels protect the disease or can halt the progression of disease in
patients. So I think this is a unique area, where we will have human and animal data coming
together in Q3 to possibly provide a surrogate, but we are planning from our Phase 2 study of
the vaccines to also have human event rates. So it's more of having a really comprehensive
approach to bring confidence and accelerate the potential approval or emergency use of this. It's
not relying on just one approach, it's multiple approaches that we're bringing together in close
dialogues with the highest level of regulators.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Mikael. Operator, we have time for one more question. So if we can move to
our last question, please?
Operator
Your final question comes from the line of `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays.
Q - `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays `Great, thanks. Thanks for fitting me in. I guess just one on sort of your view on the O-US pricing
dynamics coming out of COVID. Just your expectations on the potential likelihood of incremental
pricing pressure from government-funded healthcare systems, given likely pressure on EU
budgets and is it your expectation we see similar austerity measures like we saw last decade?
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer `
Yeah. So I think it's very difficult to predict. In any case, I think our assumptions it is that pricing is
not a growth driver, pricing is -- volume is going to be our growth driver, even without COVID. But
I think if I have to speak on high level on COVID right now, I think -- and not on the short-term, but
on the long-term as you were asking, I see two dynamics here. One is the one that you
mentioned, which is likely governments will have, let's say, budgetary pressures and we know that
that's typically an area that they try to go. So that I think will be towards the negatives. But also we
see that the value proposition of the pharmaceutical industry has been drastically reset in the
minds of the people right now because the pharmaceutical industry right now in the middle of
this crisis represent the hope of the billions of people and the hundreds of millions of enterprises
that we will find a solution towards that. And I think that will work on the very positive sign. So
remains to be seen what will be the net-net of those two areas, but I believe that in any case, it's
not going to drive growth by pricing, it's going to be by volume.
So I guess this is the end of -- and thank you very much for this question, really appreciate it. So I
think this is the end, Chuck, so let me just thank you all for joining us today, for your continued
interest and engagement within Pfizer. We are very happy to provide information and also we're
very happy to relay it to you. As I said at the start, this is an extremely difficult time for everyone.
As such, it is both a great privilege and a great responsibility for our colleagues to serve patients
at this moment. We have an opportunity to demonstrate the power of our science and we will do
everything we can to do to be a part of the solution to this problem. And I want to close by
acknowledging the healthcare workers on the front lines whose heroic efforts have been an
inspiration to all of us. Their courage, their dedication and expertise have saved countless lives
right now and probably in the future even more. And on behalf of whole Pfizer colleagues and
their families, I say thank you. So have a great rest of your day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Pfizer's first quarter 2020 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.