Q1 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to Tesla's Q1 2020 Financial
Results and Q&A Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the
speaker presentation, there will be a Question-and-Answer session. (Operator Instructions)
Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) I would now
like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Mr `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations, Senior Director for Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sherry, and good afternoon everyone and welcome to Tesla's First Quarter 2020
Q&A Webcast. I'm joined today by `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Zachary Kirkhorn and a number of other executives.
Our Q1 results were announced at about 1:00 PM Pacific Time in the update deck we published at
the same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow-up. (Operator Instructions) Before we jump into Q&A. Elon has some opening remarks.
Elon?
`Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So Q1 ended up being a strong quarter despite many challenges in the final few
weeks. This is the first time we have achieved positive GAAP net income in a seasonally weak first
quarter. Even with all the challenges we achieved a 20% automotive gross margin excluding
regulatory credits while ramping two major products. What we've learned from this is that we've
obviously learned a lot here. After the Model 3 ramp from three years ago, our new products get
run faster and become profitable sooner. In Q1, we produced more Model Ys in the first quarter
than Model 3s in Fremont in the first two quarters.Thus far, the Model Y ramp has been even faster than the Giga Shanghai ramp in Q1. More
surprisingly -- in other words, we are ahead of the schedule that we were ahead of already. Most
surprisingly, the Model Y was profitable already in its first quarter production, something we
haven't achieved with any product in the past.
Regarding Autopilot we released a new software update for traffic lights and stop signs to early
access users in March and to all US customers with the full self driving package just last week. Our
cars will now automatically stop at each stop sign or traffic lights until the driver gets a
confirmation to proceed. I should say that the car is actually capable of much more than this, but
we are only exposing functionality that we feel quite good about and where we feel that it is
probably a safety improvement.
We are collecting data from over a million intersections every month at this point. This number will
grow exponentially as more people get the update and as more people start driving again. Soon
we will be collecting data from over a billion intersections per month. [ph]Great all of those
confirmations are training on neural net. Essentially the driver when driving and taking action is
effectively labeling reality as they drive and making the neural net and better and better.
I think this is an advantage that no one else has and we are quite literally orders of magnitude
more than everyone else combined. I think this is difficult to fully appreciate. It's the reason that
say -- it's very difficult to have a search engine that competes with Google because everyone is
training Google all the time with their searches. So when you are searching something and you
click on a link, you're training Google every time you do that. It's very difficult for any new search
engine to compete on that basis.
So -- but what -- so all those confirmations are training on neural net and soon cars will be able to
drive through an intersection without a confirmation, as well as to make turns and we're really feel
we're -- I feel extremely comfortable -- extremely confident that it will be possible to do a drive
from your home to your office and most of the time with no interventions by the end of the year.
So this is -- we can almost do this already with the leading edge alpha [ph]boats[ph] than are
driving in the car.
So, let's see. On other technology front or fronts, we increased the range of Model S and X yet
again. This time to 391 miles for Model S and 351 miles for Model X. Actually we said that actually
the Model -- the real Model S range is 400 miles. But when we did the last EPA test, unfortunately
ATA left the car door open and the keys in the car. So the car -- and they did this overnight and so
the car actually went into waiting for driver mode and lost 2% of its range and as a result it had a
391 test.
As soon as the EPA reopens for testing, we will redo the test and we are actually confident that
we will achieve a 400 mile or greater range with the Model S. But to be clear, the Model S that for
the past two months, the true range of the Model S the past 2 months has been 400 miles. And
of course we're not stopping there. We're continuously [ph] pushing for improved range over
time and improving handling, acceleration and all those details that make a Tesla special.
For Model Y, we introduced the revolutionary two piece rear underbody casting that we are going
to be making a single piece casting later this year. Meaning like essentially the rear third of the
body is cast in a single piece, which is no casting of the size of complexity has never been done
before. In fact, there isn't even anything that is on par with the two piece casting for the Model Y.
So we're really pushing the envelope on vehicle structural engineering and manufacturing. I'm
very excited about this approach as it allows us to reduce the weight of the cast and improve
NVH. It's better in every way, essentially.The Model Y also introduced a revolutionary new heat pump, which allows the car to have a
higher range. So the Model Y has remarkable range on par with -- in fact slightly better than I
guess the Model 3 and despite being a bigger car that weighs more and this is -- the heat pump
is a key contributor to that. This is especially excellent at low temperature driving. And the
feedback we're getting from customers who have received the Model Y thus far has been
universally positive. We're confident this product will be our best selling product ever.
So in conclusion and just to -- looking forward I guess this is a forward-looking statement. We are
absolutely continuing our Model Y capacity expansion at full speed at both Giga Berlin and Giga
Shanghai and here in Fremont when they will let us continue. Localized production in China and in
Europe will bring the cost down, making our products even more competitive over time. While
many other companies are cutting back on investment, we are doing the opposite. We are
absolutely pedal to the metal on new products and expanding the Company and we're really
looking forward to being in sometime next year a truly global manufacturer with major factories in
North America, China and Europe and a capacity of well over a million units a year.
So there is a tremendous amount to look forward to and we can't wait to tell you what's going to
happen. Thank you.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And now to Zach's opening remarks.
`Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Martin, and thanks, Elon. I'm very proud of the accomplishments of the Tesla team
this past quarter. A few things to highlight and add to what Elon just mentioned. We successfully
launched, ramped and demonstrated profitability of the Model Y, as Elon mentioned, significantly
ahead of schedule. And this is our second large-scale product launch since Model 3 in 2017 and
it's evidence to the progress we've made on cost control and ramp efficiency. It's hard to
understate the significance of demonstrating profitability of this program and its first quarter of
production.
Our Shanghai Model 3 margins improved dramatically since Q4 of last year, nearing equivalents
of Model 3s built in Fremont. This is despite not yet running at full capacity, while also managing
through the production shutdown in early February. We also announced a long range and
performance variant of Model 3 for our roadmap, which will positively impact ASPs in China. On
order rates, we did not experience much of an impact related to the expiration of government
incentives at the end of Q4. In fact, we exited the quarter with our highest ever backlog yet again.
Aided by these accomplishments, we were able to achieve our first ever Q1 profit.
Automotive gross margin, excluding the impact of regulatory credits remained strong for all
products despite charges taken in Q1 associated with production downtime. We continue to make
progress on OpEx efficiency as well as our service and other margins. Our Energy business was
impacted as well by shutdown activities in Q1 limiting deployments. We also experienced
expected launch inefficiencies associated with our third version of the solar roof, which impacted
overall profitability. As I've noted before, we expect regulatory credit sales which are credits we
sell to other car makers to generally increase with time. This can be seen by the increase from Q1
relative to Q4. And note that most of the credit revenue did not contribute to cash in Q1 and it's
reflected in the accounts receivable on the balance sheet. Our free cash flows were impacted by
the temporary increase in end of quarter inventory for all our products resulting from the abrupt
suspension of production and delivery operations. Had these interruptions not occurred, we wereAs Elon mentioned, it is extremely important that we remain on track to achieve our long-term
plans and technology roadmap. We are taking the near-term actions required to continue those
investments. Model Y in Shanghai and Berlin are proceeding as planned and we're making
progress on improving capacity for Model Y in Fremont and Model 3 in Shanghai.
In the near term, our Shanghai factory remains operational, contributing an increasing level of
cash flows and profitability to the Company. In Fremont, we're working towards restarting
production as soon as that's possible. We are also continuing to deliver cars that we were unable
to deliver at the end of the first quarter. Our vehicle inventory balance increased by 14,000 units
at the end of Q1, which was a headwind to free cash flows in Q1 but is helpful in Q2.
Note that one of the most important aspects of Model Y in Fremont and Model 3 in Shanghai is
the dramatically improved cash conversion cycle by locally producing and delivering vehicles.
While sales and delivery operations have paused in many areas of the world, we are still receiving
many online orders, despite inability for our customers to experience the product prior to
ordering. However unavoidably, the extended shut down in Fremont will have an impact on our
near-term financial performance, and we will need to work through how quickly we'll be able to
ramp production to prior levels. More broadly, we remain focused on ensuring our cash flows are
managed appropriately. Working capital management, in particular raw material inventory, is the
single most important lever in managing our cash flows during this time. The Tesla team has done
a great job here. We've also taken actions to eliminate or reduce non-critical expenses and
optional investments while continuing to drive efficiencies throughout the business.
Overall, we've modeled many scenarios into 2021 and remain comfortable that we have sufficient
liquidity to proceed fully with our most important long-term investments. It's important to note
that Tesla remains an extremely agile and dynamic company, and this is aided by the substantial
work we've done over the last year to improve our cost efficiency and productivity and we have
the ability to quickly adjust our spending and planning as required.
So thank you again to the Tesla team for success in Q1 and we will turn to questions.
Questions And Answers
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. So we'll take the first questions from institutional investors compiled by Say
Technologies. The first question from institutional investor is, most Tesla owners have yet to
purchase or experience FSD and despite most vehicles having all the necessary hardware. What
levers, could you pull to accelerate adoption and deepen your data advantage? For example,
could you consider offering FSD as a premium subscription?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we will offer full self driving as a subscription service, but it will be probably towards the
end of this year. I should say, it will still make sense as to buy FSD as an option as in our view
buying FSD is an investment in the future and we are confident that is investment that will pay off
to the consumer and to the benefit of the consumer. And in my opinion, buying the FSD option is
something people will not regret doing,
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
I agree. And financially rolling the upfront purchase of your -- of the FSD option into a loan on the
vehicle or a lease is -- will be the least expensive plan on a monthly basis to own plus youpreserve the option value of increased value with time.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
But we do understand that some customers who have ownership or have leased their vehicle did
not purchase that option up front. And so this will enable those customers just --
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
[ph]Opinion, buying the FSD option is something people will not regret doing. And financially
rolling the upfront purchase of your of the FSD option into alone in the vehicle or lease is will be
the least expensive plan a monthly basis to own plus you preserve the option value of increased
value of time, but we do understand that some customers who have ownership or at least vehicle
did not purchase that option upfront. And so this will enable those customers to spread out the
cost of ownership of FSD or subscription over time. Absolutely. As you maybe like at a high level,
our overall goal is to maximize the area under the curve of customer happiness. That is our goal
and we think that's the kind of thing that all companies should try to do and it's what results in
long-term value creation and loyalty, the guest's loyalty. So our goal is always really to do the best
thing for the customers and we're confident that if we behave like that the customers in turn will
behave the same way to us.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The second question from investors is China recently announced changes to its NEV
subsidy program that disqualifies Tesla vehicles from benefiting from the subsidies. To what
extent is there room for Tesla to lower manufacturing costs in China and pass those savings to
buyer so they can qualify for the subsidy?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So we are making rapid progress on lowering the production costs in China and we're
actually excited to announce on this call that we will be reducing the price of the Standard Range
Model 3 basically tomorrow China time. So the day after tomorrow, California time, but tomorrow
China time. And there will be a price below the subsidy limit it, and we feel confident that that's
will still be a vehicle that delivers a good gross margin.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And on the manufacturing costs portion of the question. The cost of vehicles produced in
Shanghai in Q1 is already lower than the cost to produce the Model 3 in Fremont, and there is still
significant opportunity left to take cost out. So a fixed cost absorption from higher production
volumes which are occurring in Q2 and will occur through the rest of the year. We're not fully
localized on the supply chain yet, and so while a lot of the supply chain is localized it's not
complete and there is additional opportunities there. And so we'll continue to bring the price
down and expand margin cost down and expand margin even with this reduction in price that
Elon mentioned on the Standard Range version of the vehicle.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `Thank you. The next question is Andy Grove once said that great companies are improved by
crises. In which way has Tesla improved towards -- or is expected to improve coming out of
COVID-19?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it has caused us to look closely at our cost structure and to be more efficient as a company.
That's -- one always has to do that in a crisis and just thinking about our core beliefs and what do
we want to do and we came to the conclusion that the right move is actually to continue to
expand rapidly, continue to invest in the future in new technologies, even though it is risky and
we've talked to some of our key investors and they support that approach as well. So I think that
there is clearly an uncertain future ahead. It's bit of a bumpy road. But I think the long-term
prospects are extremely good.
Anything you guys want to add?
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I agree with that, Elon. The prioritization on the key projects will enable us to execute more
efficiently and faster on them, which I think is great. The other one that I would add is, it's always
been our vision at Tesla to improve the customer experience and make that as digital as
possible.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, touchless delivery.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
So touchless delivery, mobile service, touchless sales has been something that we've been very
focused on and made a lot of progress on.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
But Tesla is the only car that you can -- you literally order it and in less than 5 minutes on your
phone, you can order a car and have it delivered to your doorstep with all the paper and
everything done. That's it, effortless.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
And many customers do that.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
And they're doing it. Yes. In fact, a big part of it is just trying to communicate to people that this is
something you can do. Because normally buying a car is quite a pain --for most people, they
would rather go to the dentist than buy a new car. Actually, my dentist is very -- but it's really quite
an arduous thing when the typical retail experience of buying a new car is more painful to people
than having a root canal done, you have to say, well -- and for Tesla it is completely as easy as
ordering something on the Apple App Store or ordering something on Amazon and except it's a
car. Yeah. And in five minutes -- if you really went fast, I think you could order car, probably in 90
seconds.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `Thank you. The next question from institutional investor is can you give us a brief preview of the
Battery Day by generally highlighting steps Tesla is taking to improve self energy density and
timeline for introduction?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, actually. We're just -- we don't want to preempt Battery Day. You want to leave the exciting
news for that day, but there will be a lot of exciting news to tell and I think it would be one of the
most exciting days in Tesla's history and we're just trying to figure out the right timing for that. We
think probably the right timing will be the -- probably the third week of May. That's not giving a
firm date, but we think that probably that's the right timing. And depending upon what we are
allowed to do, it will either be in California or Texas.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Okay. And the last question from institutional investors. Could you please update on progress
stores development and commercialization of full self driving? How much revenue have you
recognized so far?
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
So there is a couple things on the financials for full self driving. And so currently in North America,
it sold for $7,000 as an option. We take roughly half of that as revenue and the other half of it
goes into deferred revenue. That's associated with features that will be released with time. Our
deferred revenue balance is continuing to grow, it's a little bit over $600 million. And so as we
release features with time, at the end of every quarter we take a look at what features have
been released, associated value and then we can release that from the deferred revenue into
our financials for that quarter. And then cars going forward, once a feature is released we can
recognize that revenue. So we reduce the amount of deferral and we can recognize that revenue
within period. So I mean this is one of what we think will be one of the most powerful gross
margin levers time as the feature suite is rolled out.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. There's also a tremendous amount of untapped potential in the beat out there that
could upgrade to turn on Autopilot, basic Autopilot, or full self driving. And that's something we
will enable just as a simple in our purchase or as we talked about earlier just towards end the year
as a subscription. So that's just a lot of untapped potential there. That's not in the deferred
revenue line obviously but is certainly a great deal of deferred potential that we think is a large
portion of which is like to -- likely to reach fruition.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And now let's go through the questions from retail investors. Question number one.
Elon has mentioned a 50% compound annual growth target for Tesla in the past, is this still in line
with Tesla's ambitions for the next 5 to 10 years? This would be 4 million vehicles in 2025 and
more than 20 million vehicles in 2030. Is 40% or more a realistic target?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it's always difficult to predict of what the macro situation is going to be. I think very few
people would have predicted the unexpected roundhouse that COVID came up with it sort of
came out of nowhere. So I think in the absence of something -- some massive force majeureevent, but quite massive, I think 40% is the likely number. It's possible that is 40%. I would be very
shocked if it's less than 40% even with force majeure, short of World War III.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Okay. The next question from retail investors, when will you announce the next Giga? How many
Gigas do you have planned for the next 5 years?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we will announce the next Giga possibly as soon as a month but we may now as soon as
next month. This is not a prediction, just saying that's if that could happen it will certainly be within
3 months and possibly one month and that would be in the US. So as for how many it will be in 5
years, I'm not -- I don't know right now what that number would be. I guess several more than
there are today, but I'm not sure what exactly it would be in 5 years. But some number more than
today.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
And I'll also add that our Gigas have gotten bigger.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
And it could arguably -- it could start being called Tera.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
With multiple products as well. And so the absolute number of Giga factories we may ultimately
build might be less, but each one is larger and that's under a belief that it's just significant
efficiencies by having as much as possible and similar product lines under the same roof and as
much vertical integration as possible, all in one facility.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question is, can you give us an update on Solar Roof ramp? How many are
you currently able to install per week? What is your installations per weeks target for the end of
2021?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
We were actually gaining interest momentum with the Solar Roof before COVID, but and COVID
essentially shut us down, both from the ability to install and the ability to get permits. I think the
permit offices were closed. And with the shelter in place all over the place. So we obviously
cannot install and if you can't get permits then you can't physically do it. It's basically impossible.
So -- but I think the long-term trend for Solar Roof is extremely good and I'm confident that let's
say within the next I don't know year or maybe even by end of year, we should be installing at a
rate of 1,000 a week. That's not in the middle of winter or something, it's like taking seasonality,
allowing for seasonality where it's hard to install on roofs that are covered in snow and ice, a bit
like in say spring, I think it's installing but which is the hard part.We actually have demonstrated the ability to hit 1,000 a week plus build rate for the solar glass
roof already, so that's not a problem. It's building up the install teams, building out the third-party
channel installers, the roofing industry installers. And internally, we want to have at least 1,000
Solar Roof install teams with -- and taking a week or perhaps a little less than a week to do an
install, which gets you a 1,000 a week roof installations.
We see demand is good, production is good. So it's really all about the install. And then like I said,
it also build out the training, the very diverse group of companies in the roofing industry to also
install Solar Roof that I think will scale -- allow us to scale far beyond 1,000 a week.
We're also seeing a lot of interest outside of North America, so we do expect this to be a
product that is international and actually seeing a tremendous amount of interest from China on
the Solar Roof. So we're confident that this will be a very significant product for the Company
over time.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question is, can you elaborate on Tesla's plan to enter the residential and or
commercial HVAC markets? Can you provide some basics of how your system will work? Will you
consider the heat pump water heater market as well?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, as I said on Twitter. I'm personally extremely excited to build a kick ass HVAC system that
also has sort of hospital grade particle filtration, basically have the filtration that filters out.
Viruses, bacteria, pollen, fungi and it also neutralizes specific alkaline gases that is quiet and
efficient and these are all things we've achieved in our cars. In fact, I don't know if a lot of people
realize but the Model S and X are the only cars in the world that have a hospital operating room
grade heavy filters built in. They're very big. But you can get to a particle count that is insanely low
with our cars.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
And 3 and Y have like MERV 16 or 15 capable filter (inaudible) which is --
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. It's not like Model 3 and Y are -- they're no slouches. Model 3 and Y are also way -- they're
way better than any other car, to the best of my knowledge. They're not quite as good as
possible operating room, but they're extremely good, way better than any other normal car. And
we're continuing to improve the filters on 3 and Y. I (inaudible) these -- these actually have a big
effect on health even in normal just day-to-day living is reducing particle count and it has effect on
allergies and all sorts of things. So it's really -- air quality is incredibly important, you know in the
non-COVID situation extremely important. So taking that all those things that we've learned and
applying it to how many HVAC would be -- and commercial HVAC would be just very exciting. And
then if you got -- if you're condensing water, like why not also have a few water source. If you
have water, you possibly could then heat the water and have a water heater as well.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Use it as a heat source if you need it instead of the outdoors when the outdoors is really
cold or it's the other way around. So lots of options.It could be a hell of a product, so we just have to -- at Tesla, we have a tendency to apply a
formula [ph] we continue on the product front. So we're going to make sure -- we got a lot of ice
in the fire here for new products with the Cybertruck, Semi new Roadster and the Gigafactories in
various parts of the world and brilliant [ph] Model Y and Autopilot and the Solar Roof and -- yeah,
exactly. Powerwall, Powerpack, Megapack. We are seeing tremendous demand for stationary
storage, more than we can supply, at least for 2020.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the last question from the retailer is when will Tesla start acquiring utilities like the
Hornsdale Power Reserve and most lending instead of selling them battery storage? Does it
make sense for Tesla to buy bigger plants and convert them?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we haven't really thought about that yet. It's not out of the question, but our brand is full.
Excuse me sir, our brand is full. That's not out of the other question, our overarching goal is to
help accelerate the advent of sustainable energy, And the three elements of that are sustainable
power generation, then you have got to store the power, stationary storage and then you've got
have electric transportation. So it's -- and well we don't have like specific market share goals or
anything like that, it's just to the degree that we can accelerate the advent of sustainable energy.
We think that's a fundamental good for the world and we want to do that as fast as possible. But
it's not -- it makes it market share growth as a goal in and of itself, it's just the faster this happens
the better off the world is.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much and I think now we can move to analyst questions.
Operator
Thank you. Our first question will come from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, everybody. I hope everyone is safe and healthy. I got one question, and one follow-up
and I point out, I've had a root canal before and I would agree, Elon, it was less painful than
buying a car.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean it really, it's -- exactly.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
It's a big problem actually. It's a big problem.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
It's crazy. Yes.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Different conversations. Zach, first for you, any real-time update on company liquidity at the end
of April? Some companies have, given the circumstances, gone out of their way to give a littlecolor on that. Just wanted to give you a shot at that. Then I got a follow-up.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, it's a fair question. I don't have any additional color to provide. So $8.1 billion in cash and
cash equivalents at the end of Q1. We're managing it very closely. As I mentioned in my opening
remarks, we do have an increase in inventory of vehicles that we were unable to deliver at the
end of Q1. So we're making progress delivering those through April, which is helpful for liquidity.
And as we've been looking at liquidity, we've been looking at this over the next 18 months, and
there's ups and downs to the liquidity. Currently now as we're not producing, we still have
payables from Q1 that we're paying off. But then in a couple of months we'll quickly be through
that and then we'll have a gap in payables since we don't have any parts coming in. So it does go
up and down a little bit. But in looking at the long-term horizon, which is how we're managing it
right now, we feel pretty comfortable with the liquidity the position of the Company.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I should say we are a bit worried about not being able to resume production in the Bay
Area and that should be identified as a serious risk. That we only have two car factories right now,
one in Shanghai and one in the Bay area and the Bay are produces the vast majority of our cars,
all of S and X and most of the 3 and all of the Y. So, the extension of the shelter in place or frankly
I would call it forcibly imprisoning people in their homes against all their constitutional alliance,
that's my opinion, and breaking people's freedoms in ways that are horrible and wrong and not
why people came to America or built this country. What the expletive [ph]? Excuse me. People --
the outrage -- system outrage.
So but it will cause great harm not just to Tesla but to many companies. And while Tesla will
weather the storm, there are many small companies that will not.
And all of people's -- everything people have worked for their whole life is going get -- is being
destroyed in real time and we're going to have many suppliers and our having many suppliers
that are having super hard times, especially the small ones. And it's just causing a lot of strife to a
lot of people.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Elon, on that point, you mentioned people that gave their lives to build the country, my thoughts
for you on this. There have been a lot of comparisons drawn to the state of the US economy to
the early 1930s when Roosevelt began a series of new deals and infrastructure projects or post-
World War II when Eisenhower launched the US Highway Act and when JFK launched the Apollo
program which you could say was influenced by the cold war clearly and you benefited from and
our space program benefited from, what would be your message to US lawmakers on this call as
we in addition to your opinions on shelter in place but thinking longer-term, your message to US
lawmakers coming out of the crisis, specifically around EV infrastructure and a chance to kind of
work with taxpayers to support sustainable transport and renewable energy? I'm wondering if you
see this as a chance to make the crisis and all the loss and lives lost not be in vain. Thanks.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's high time we invested in infrastructure in this country. We have a lot of crumbling
highways and bridges, and frankly when I visit China, I see their infrastructure as being much
better than ours. It's great. Europe has better infrastructure. It's really quite sad that US
infrastructure, especially roads and highways is where it is today. And our airports, a lot of casesare an embarrassment. So, and it's not just a question of money it's a question of will. Sometimes
we spend a lot of money on these things, but what are we gaining for it? So and yeah, we really
need to be thinking about what is the transportation of the future not the transportation of the
past. If this was 1920, do you want to be investing in steam engines or internal combustion
engines? Obviously that's not steam engines. So this is a time to think about the future.
And also to ask is it right to infringe upon people's rights as what is happening right now. I think
the people are going to be very angry about this and are very angry because somebody should
be -- if somebody wants to stay in their house, that's great. They should be allowed to stay in
their house and they should not be compelled to leave, But to say that they cannot leave their
house and they will be arrested if they do, this is this is fascist. This is not democratic. This is not
freedom. Give people back their goddamn freedom.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Okay. Let's go to the next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi, good evening. Question on Model Y. I was hoping you can elaborate a little bit more on the
drivers of how the gross margin is already positive at such low volume. How much of it is a
function of the commonality with the Model 3? What other factors should we think about and
what does that mean for the ampler for the eventual gross margin on Model Y?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Zach?
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. A couple of thoughts there for Y. The first is, it does carry a higher ASP. So on the revenue
side. It carries a higher ASP than Model 3. And the deliveries that we started with were of the
higher ASP versions of the cars. So we started with deliveries of performance initially. And so that
helps create some of the margin, and that will come down with time more variants are released
and we have more of a steady-state mix. But it's similar to the ASP trends that we had with Model
3 when we launched that product in Fremont two years ago.
On the cost side, and I think you hit on a couple of the buckets, the commonality is huge. That's
very important. And in addition to that, manufacturing processes are very similar to Model 3 as
well. And so we have experience with that both with Model 3 in Fremont, and then as well in
Shanghai. And it helps to have an existing factory with existing workforce and knowledge here as
well, so the ecosystem to support and launch the product is there. There remain a lot of
opportunities to take -- continue to take cost out of the car and the number of vehicles that
we've built in the first quarter is quite limited relative to our goal.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, agreed. We take us out of the car and have to make the product better, so it's a test -- it's
not make the product worse. It's -- and if we can take costs out of a car and make it worse. Wewant to take -- costs out of the car, figure out how we can make it lighter and simpler and so it's -
- we want the car to just incrementally improve as well as incrementally lowering cost. But for a 5-
seater Model Y, we expect marginal cost that car to be comparable to the Model 3 once we have
reached say 10,000 or 20,000 units or something like that and (Technical Difficulty).
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Hello?
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, please stand by, your conference will resume momentarily. Thank you.
Speakers, you're back online.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Hi, sorry, we got disconnected for some reason, what was the question again? Okay. Let's go to
the next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Ben Kallo, Analyst, Baird with Baird. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben Kallo, Analyst, Baird `
Hey, thank you very much. Just wondering about the cell strategy. In Reno, you have obviously
integrated there but you're buying cells I think in Shanghai and then what we think in Germany.
And so how are you looking at that going forward? And then, could you just talk about Mr. Mizuno
and that Board addition and kind of the process with adding him to the Board? Thank you
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. From a sales perspective, with all the partners we've had historically in the future, we're just
looking for competitive technology and competitive pricing. I think we'll talk a little bit more about
this at Battery Investor Day like how we're approaching all of it. But yeah, I mean, we don't have
like one model we're restricting ourselves to pursue. We're just trying to find what's best for the
products and -- in the long run.
And then the other question about the Board?
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Sorry, we couldn't hear the second part of the question.
Q - `Ben Kallo, Analyst, Baird `
Yeah, I was asking about Mr. Mizuno entering the Board and kind of the process behind that and
what he brings to the Board.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I think -- well we all need a Hiro. And obviously he brings a tremendous amount of
experience investing at the highest levels in the world, and has done great work as -- at the
Japan pension fund and which is the largest fund of any kind in the world. And in a generally the
conversations over the years, just churning incredible insight into how the securities, the globalsecurity markets work and what he thinks is where there are areas for reform, just it seems like
he has a strong, philosophical understanding about how to make the future better. And he shares
our view regarding the environment and just a very sensible smart person who brings a lot to the
Board and I think is generally recognized as such by many people.
Q - `Ben Kallo, Analyst, Baird `
I guess linking into the Panasonic relationship, but maybe just how is that relationship going. And is
there any read through on bringing him on to the Board. Thank you.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think this has got nothing to do with the Panasonic relationship. I mean, I have a great
relationship with the Panasonic CEO. We meet regularly one-on-one and talk at all the time and so
that relationship is strong and just -- he would bring more of a broader and a global strategic view
to the Board.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Gene Munster, Analyst, Loup Ventures with Loup Ventures. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gene Munster, Analyst, Loup Ventures `
Congratulations on the progress. And Elon you talked about full autonomy by the end of the year,
I would love for you to walk through the rollout strategy of the Tesla network app and how that's
going to look prior to the Robo Taxi stage. Are you going to gradually take over human routes
with autonomous capable routes over time or how do you see that playing out?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it's pretty much going to play out as it has played out, which is we'll release more and more
functionality and before we release any functionality, it goes through extensive testing and first
we run it -- we have a simulations team that has, I think, a very good simulation in the real world.
So we run any code changes through a battery of tests and simulation, then we have a global QA
team which I'm on actually, I'm on the global QA team and we test the releases in the real world
where we'll find out the differences between the real and the simulation, which is -- which are
very many because the world is very complex and where -- and then we release it to a small
group of private beta testers within the Company then to a larger beta audience including
people outside the Company then to early access Tesla owners and then finally, a broader
release.
And so there is there are many stages that these things go through. So by the time something is
being -- going to wide release into the US, it's gone through to all of those stages and the
software that's at the very early stage is much more advanced than what people are seeing. So
it's just going to go through a very rigorous safety process. So essentially we need to figure out is
that get very good at complex intersections, get very good at complex turns in intersections and
things like busy malls in the parking lots or office park or special events and sporting events, that
kind of thing when those eventually come back.Those are extra hard cases, but it's all tracking very well. If you like the Autopilot's engineering
team is -- we just have an extremely talented group and I am deeply involved with the team. So
we talk every week and meet every week when can, as of now, a physical meeting is difficult. So I
have a quite a deep understanding of where we are and where we're headed. And I feel like we
have a tremendous amount of momentum and we'll have the functionality that's really cool, also
driving by the end of the year. And
After that functionality is released there's still another step, which is to improve the reliability of it
once it is released, to kind of core self-driving with human -- supervised by the driver. And then if
we keep improving the reliability to the point where it no longer needs to be supervised by the
driver and we provide a vast body of data to regulators to show them that this was the case and
then presumably the regulators, depending on which jurisdiction it is would give approval for the
autonomous cars that can drive with no human on board. Obviously, the regulatory approval
process that's difficult for us to predict with accuracy, because it's out of our hands. But for the
rest of it, I feel very good about where we are and where we're (multiple speakers).
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
So to summarize, we want -- we're going to get the owners full autonomy some level of that by
the end of the year and then a human in a loop Tesla network app some time Is it first half of next
year, or that would be the hope.
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Do you mean like when can a car drive with no person on board?
Q - `Gene Munster, Analyst, Loup Ventures `
But with a person, initially a person who observes would that be with the Tesla Network app,
would that be really part of the year of 2021? Is that the hope?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
If described as a hope, I would say that's probably a fair description.
Q - `Gene Munster, Analyst, Loup Ventures `
Okay, and then kind of take it to its end stage the Robo Taxi stage, any high-level thoughts to
understand the regulatory is a massive unknown? But if you're going to put a guess on it, where
would we -- when would we start seeing Robo Taxis?
A - `Elon Musk, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer `
Well I think it's quite likely in my view, again, I could be wrong on -- as you see it was because of
that we are ahead in some areas and we are behind in others. Because when I give a guess, I
give the guess that I think is the likely midpoint. Not the point with lots of margin, if this is normal
distribution, I'd give you the 50th percentile not the three segment optimistic or pessimistic.
So then that necessarily means at least half of my predictions will be wrong and half will be right.
Yeah, I think -- or it might be right but offset by a few weeks to a few months, in some cases a
few years. But I believe as everything I've ever said would come through did come through, it
may come through late, but it did come through. So punctuality is not my strong suit, but I always
come through in the end. So I think we could see Robo Taxis in operation with the network fleet
next year. Not in all markets but in some.A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And let's go to the last question, please.
Operator
Our last question will come from `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street with New Street. Please go ahead.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street `
Hey, thanks for taking my question. One on gross margin first, I know your impressive
performance in Q1. So there are three moving parts, the tailwind from credits of course, the
Model Y ramping even if it broke even it probably took average gross margin down, and of
course you had like Fremont being closed shut down the last week of the quarter it probably was
the sort of an extra cost. And so, when I looked at how gross margin evolved sequentially
excluding these three moving parts, I felt like your auto gross margin could have been up like a
couple of points sequentially. So I wanted to check with you if that estimate would make sense.
And then I will have a follow-up on energy storage. Thank you.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sequential market improvement -- margin improvement. So the 3 things that you
mentioned, had a little bit of a hard time hearing the full question here because we are having a
bit of network difficulty in the room. I'll do my best here. So when we look at margin, we do
exclude credit as you have, so I agree with that. Model Y ramping bringing down overall gross
margin, I agree with that as well. So it was lower than the overall average and that will increase
with time. And shutdown and efficiencies in both Shanghai and in Fremont also weighed on
margin. And the Shanghai margin was below the average as well even though it's increasing
quickly and approaching Model 3, it's still is below the average. And so I think the sentiment of
your question was, if you were to remove those factors was there a sequential increase in gross
margin. I haven't specifically calculated that but I think your intuition is right. We saw strength in
gross margin across the board, as I mentioned, and in particular S and X gross margins continue
to improve despite slightly lower volumes there and higher fixed cost amortization.
So there is good progress happening both on the ASP side and the cost reduction side for our
products and production. And I think this also lends itself to the power of the gross profit
contribution to the Company once we get through these ramp inefficiencies, we get Fremont up
and running again, we increase capacity so we can spread out fixed costs and continue to
execute on cost reductions on our products, we feel very optimistic about that path going
forward.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street `
Thanks. And I had a quick follow-up on energy storage if you can hear me well. I think like -- I can't
remember I think from the very first days I heard you on the call, you've always mentioned that
demand for energy storage is always outstripping supply and you have more orders than you can
make. And so I'm kind of thinking there will be -- there should be an inflection point in that
business at some point and it's going to be driven by your ability to add much more
manufacturing capacity like battery manufacturing capacity. And at a high level, how are you
thinking about that inflection point in terms of timeline?
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `In terms of timeline, I think what we've been doing with both our Partners and internally is looking
at how to reduce the fundamentally the cost of investments in new cell capacity. Because when
you look at a car, a vehicle product, there's a lot of things in the vehicle besides the cells. When
you look at an energy storage project -- product, it's really just the cells. And so to really grow the
energy storage business, it's all about cell investments. And so that's what we've been focused
on, and I think not to give too much away but that will be one of the things we address in Battery
and Investor Day is how we're focused on that. And when we have that in the place we want, it
will be a lot easier to scale that business.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much for all your great questions. Unfortunately, this is all the time we have today
and we'll speak to you again in three months' time. Thank you very much and have a good day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation,
you may now disconnect.