Q3 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon and welcome to the Novartis Q3 2021 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the presentation there will
be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions) A recording of the conference call
including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly after the call ends. (Operator
Instructions) With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, and hello everybody. I'd like to thank you for taking the time to participate
in the Q3 Novartis Conference Call. The information presented today contains forward-looking
statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors.
These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For a description of some of these
factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F its most recent quarterly results on Form 6-K
that respectively were filed with and furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
And with that I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Samir. And thank you for everyone for joining today's conference call. With me in the
room, if I could have the slide up with our colleagues, on slide 3 with me in the room I have Harry,
Marie-France, Susanne, John, Richard, Karen and of course Samir we've just heard from.
So turning to slide 4 and then slide 5, we wanted to start by taking a step back and really
reflecting on how this quarter continues I think what has been a very strong trend for the
company over the past four years looking at nine months for each of the years back to 2018, you
see we have consistently demonstrated the ability to grow our sales at 6% annual CAGAR 13% on
core operating income and a consistent expansion of our Innovative Medicines margin.
Now looking ahead, we stand behind our belief that we can continue to grow our sales over the
coming period at a CAGAR of 4% driven by first and foremost, our key growth drivers will talk
more about over the course of this call. Our strong mid-stage pipeline and the continued
investment we have on technology platforms, which we think over time will differentiate us and
enable us to have a steady flow of innovations to drive growth.
Moving to slide 6, for Q3, we had strong performance across each of our four main value drivers.
We'll talk about sales growth throughout the call. And Harry and our colleagues Marie-France and
Susanne will give you more details. We had good productivity with our core operating margin now
reaching 37.8% in IM.
On the innovation front, I'll go through some of the milestones in more detail later on. But I think it
was a busy quarter for us with some negatives, but a more positives overall on balance, and we
continue our journey on the innovation on our innovation efforts. And then lastly in the ESG we
had a recent ESG day where we laid out our longer-term ESG strategy and we continue to have
the ambition to not only lead in the biopharmaceutical industry, but also across large companies.
Now moving to slide 7, our key growth drivers and launches had good momentum in quarter 3.
We're very pleased with the performance will go through some of the brands over the course of
the call, but notably, we now have 53% of our sales in the quarter coming from these key growth
brands and that's up 26% versus prior year. And I think that demonstrates that we're a company
that has replacement power that can continue to generate innovations that overcome expertise
and drive that consistent growth over time.
Moving to slide 8, we had particularly strong growth on some of our key brands, including
Cosentyx growing 18%, Entresto was up 41%, Zolgensma up 49% Kisqali 27% and Kesimpta
continues on its solid and accelerating launch trajectory and Marie-France will go through that in a
bit more detail.
Moving to slide 9, we've announced this morning, we are raising our peak sales guidance for both
Cosentyx and Entresto, so first from Cosentyx and we'll go through this in more detail a bit later.
We've raised our peak sales guidance to $7 billion this is driven by market growth, geographic
expansion, as well as lifecycle management opportunities and we expect this brand to continue
to be a strong element of Novartis history through this entire decade.
And moving to Entresto we believe on slide back on slide 9, we believe we will continue to have
strong growth driven by market penetration guidelines and geographic expansion. Our peak
sales guidance is consistent with our currently stated assumption of an LOE in 2025.
However, we do have issued patents going out to 2027 an additional group of patents that were
recently issued out to 2033 and we'll continue to aggressively defend our IP to maximize the
impact of this medicine. And moving to the next slide, I also wanted to say a word on China,
where we continue our strong growth trajectory.One of the leading multinationals in the market in China. We continue with a double-digit growth
in the high teens, 16% and 18% on the quarter. This is driven by a few factors. One, the continued
positive momentum we have on our growth drivers that have NRDL inclusion.
And we believe we're outperforming other multinational companies for the sales growth of these
NRDL listed brands. We also have limited exposure to value-add to the volume-based pricing.
When you look at our commercial footprint we've been expanding our commercial footprint to
reach, lower-tier cities and hospitals.
And lastly, our late-stage pipeline continues to mature in China. We had some important recent
approvals and track for hypertension, Lucentis an additional indication and we have 50 additional
submissions planned in the next five years. So we're confident we're on track to double our time
of sales from the 2020 based by 2024. Moving to the next slide. Now turning to Sandoz,
incentives we had a mixed quarter.
We see in the ex-US dynamics normalizing but a little more challenging environment in the US. So
first, in Europe, we had a 2% sales growth, and this is really driven by both biosimilars as well as
retail and a return to gaining market share in our key markets. In the Rest of World region, we
were up 6% with steady growth across regions.
However, in the US, we did see a 20% decline and this is driven by price erosion as well as
contract terminations in our oral solids business. We also had an impact on core operating
income. This is primarily driven by the unfavorable gross margins from the product mix in the US.
Then turning to Q4, we do expect performance to normalize in the ex-US and we'll continue to
work to stabilize the US. We expect our direct demand, business segments to normalize but at
different rates. We continue to expect demand to be in line with what we saw in Q3 and we're
hopeful that we'll see a cough and cold season that returns to pre-COVID levels.
We did have a minor impact as well from a negative impact from losartan in Q3 and we continue
to expect to see some of those negative impacts in Q4. Now moving to the next slide, we did
announce this morning that recommencing a strategic review of Sandoz consistent with what we
outlined a few years ago.
We had stated that we want to create a more autonomous Sandoz within Novartis that would
give us the optionality to ultimately determine where is the Sandoz best owned by Novartis or by
our shareholders or another party then we believe the DX market is attractive. We think Sandoz is
well placed to capitalize on its growth drivers over the next decade.
And we think is also well placed to really be a leader in the next wave of biosimilars launches.
When you take each of those in turn attractive market $400 billion of sales going to LOE over the
coming decade a CAGAR of 4% and Sandoz with a number one position in Europe and in
biosimilars as well as the leading position in areas like antibiotics.
And a clear strategic focus that Richard and the team have put in place. We have a very strong
biosimilars pipeline with a 15 assets in development aiming for $3 billion of sales by 2025 and $5
billion by 2030 a clear strategy in complex small molecules and ongoing margin improvements
primarily through improved COGS through our technical operations unit.
So we expect to conduct this review over the coming period and we would plan to provide an
update on progress latest by the end of next year. It is notable that Sandoz is more integrated
into Novartis and Alcon was historically and so are important considerations will need to work
through from an IT and business services standpoint really enables us to make the best decision.And moving to slide 13, from a pipeline standpoint, we had a busy quarter some approval a
number of readout many readouts the winner way but also important readouts didn't go our way.
And we acknowledge those and are working to learn from them to continue to improve our
pipeline performance, but on balance we would say we continue to be at the industry
benchmarks are better in terms of pipeline success rates by phase. My submission standpoint, a
number of submissions went in and I think importantly we received two designations priority
reviews for both Asciminib and Lu-PSMA 617 both of those reviews are ongoing. It should enable
a launch in the relatively near-term.
Moving to slide 14, going a bit deeper and we've reframed these next two slides rather than
looking at Pharma and anchor to really break it out by business franchise and global franchise of
the various businesses. So starting in pharmaceuticals and cardio renal where of course we build
on the strong position we have with Entresto.
Leqvio, we remain on track for an action date, and January one, we have good discussions with
FDA continuing to progress the assessment of our Austrian facility, no issues have been flagged.
So we remain on track for that approval. Iptacopan, we continue to have solid progress on this
medicine with Phase 3 started in IgA C3G and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome.
We also disclosed in our quarter that both to find the final readouts for both C3G and IgA
nephropathy, which follow these patients for a bit longer continued the trend of improving renal
function. Pelacarsen continues to perform well in its Phase 3. From an immunology standpoint we
announced today that Cosentyx had a positive Phase 2 readout versus steroids standard of care
for giant cell arthritis and we've moved now to begin a Phase 3 program.
And of course the hidradenitis readouts are continuing as well as the on-track as well as the other
Phase 3 programs. Ligelizumab remains on track for its readout and we'll talk about Remibrutinib.
I did want to highlight we see very good data mid stage data for Ianalumab which is our anti BAFF
receptor antibody and we'll be presenting more data in the coming quarters on this medicine. But
we are excited about its potential in a range of autoimmune as well as hematological indications.
Turning to neuroscience, the SMA intrathecal AVXS 101 Intrathecal FDA hold has been lifted as we
previously disclosed in the Phase 3 now is initiating its a global Phase 3 program covering two to
18-year old. Branaplam are splicing inhibitor for -- slicing modulator I should say for Huntington's
disease has its Phase IIb now starting with all the relevant regulatory clearances achieve and we
will announce and we've announced and I will talk a bit more about Remibrutinib in a moment.
Turning to the next slide from an oncology standpoint here we had of course a number of events
we will talk about Kisqali and canakinumab, Lu-PSMA we've already mentioned, I did want to fly,
we've started now both are earlier stage studies in the pre-taxane, as well as the hormone-
sensitive metastatic settings
And are continuing to evaluate to move potentially move this medicine into earlier lines. We did
announce as well JDQ443, which is our in-house KRAS inhibitor has had good PK, good dose
finding. We think it's a very good profile for this medicine and are now moving into Phase 3
studies in non-small cell lung cancer.
With this we'll also look potentially other indications, and this enabled us to have in our own
hands, our own combination of a KRAS inhibitor and a SHP2 inhibitor are T&O SHP2 inhibitor is
now in a number of early stage studies looking at combinations and we'll hopefully be able to
present more data on this in the early part of next year.Turning to a hematology our first line study for a Asciminib now has also started a PNH for
Iptacopan is progressing well. Our Sabatolimab programs remain on track and importantly now
with YTD our next generation CD19 CAR-T, we've seen a very good data in the early phases,
which will present at ASH, along with our multiple myeloma next phase CAR-T therapy. And we
plan to start the pivotal studies in 2022.
So moving to the next slide. Just wanted to say a few words on Remibrutinib this I think is really
well designed medicine. We have excellent chemistry at Novartis and our scientists have worked
to really create a highly selective potent and safe covalent BTK inhibitor.
And when you look at the data and CSU, where the first BTK inhibitor to be able to demonstrate
the kind of data that you see on this slide. First a very good dose response with significant
improvements versus placebo. And you can see the specifics here a very compelling with no
safety signals.
Then when you look at the improvement in the relevant as you heard carrier score over placebo.
You can see across the dose range. We see a clear improvement versus placebo and that
improvement was very rapid as early as week 1 and maintained through week 12 the endpoint of
the study.
Moving to slide 17 when you look at the complete control that patients on Remibrutinib BID were
able to achieve versus the placebo group, very high response rates that were consistently
maintained over the course of the study I think showing the potency of the drug.
But in terms of differentiation, particularly in dermatology, as well as in multiple sclerosis. We were
really pleased with the safety profile of this medicine, which we think will be critically important.
One there was no dose-dependent increases or treatment interruptions or discontinuations due
to LST elevations, no dose-dependent cytopenias or treatment interruptions for low blood cell
counts and no clinically relevant adverse events associated with what has been historically
associated with the BTK inhibitor class across the entire dose range tested. So overall, we think
this is a potential best-in-class profile for CSU positive benefit risk in this Phase 3 studies are in
the midst of starting right now.
Moving to slide 18, and as mentioned, we are now initiating Phase III trials with Remibrutinib. We
understand that we are behind some of our competitors, but we believe our expertise in
conducting large-scale RMS studies gives us the ability to close the gap and importantly we think
for neurologists was really important is they have a very safe medicine that is also high efficacy
and we think we can deliver that with Remibrutinib. And what would this allow us to view. We've
already got the all clear to move ahead into our Phase 3 studies and what this allows us to do
over the longer term is build on our multiple sclerosis portfolio Gilenya, Mayzent, Kesimpta and
now adding eventually assuming success Remibrutinib.
So moving to slide 19, you also saw in the quarter Kisqali achieved statistically significant OS in the
Monaleesa 2 study is the third study where Kisqali in the metastatic setting has demonstrated a
significant overall survival benefit that benefit now out to five years.
It's really, we believe that should be the preferred treatment option for these patients given the
compelling OS data that's been demonstrated, we plan to submit this OS data into our labeling in
the relevant geographies.
Moving to slide 20, I just wanted to say a word I know there's a lot of interest now in the adjuvant
readout, which we expect in 2022. It's on track, fully enrolled. Just to remind you, there are some
unique elements of the study. One includes patients at high and intermediate risk, which is alarger patient population than some of our competitor studies and the way we have designed
the study is the base enrollment on the prognostic staging from the AJCC.
A little bit different than the Ki-67 that has gotten a lot of attention, but we believe and with
regulator -- regulatory sign a very relevant prognostic staging to really ensure that we enrich for
the risk of recurrence in this study. We have a longer treatment duration of three years versus two
years we lowered the dose to make sure this is manageable for patients in the adjuvant setting
to overall improve the tolerability.
So as I said, enrollment complete it's an event driven study. We expect the late 2022 readout and
feedback from FDA for which we reviewed again says that the iDFS endpoint is acceptable as the
primary analysis provided there is no detriment in OS and we're of course taking that into account
as we see the various readouts over the course of next year.
Moving to slide 21. Now I wanted to turn to Canopy and it will just take another few minutes to
explain the data that we released yesterday to make sure it's clear and then both of course we
will be happy to take your questions. The Canopy program is based on the results we saw in
Cantos where we saw 60% to 70% improvement in the incidence and mortality of lung cancer
and a cardiovascular trial, this was based on a pretty good understanding of IL-1 beta as well as
hsCRP are very relevant in the tumor microenvironment for lung cancer as well as other
inflammatory cancers.
The Canopy 2 study was in the second line there. We didn't see any signals of efficacy overall and
there, of course, as you saw at ESMO the trend was not positive with canakinumab versus the
control arm of chemo. In this study and while we did not meet our primary endpoint of OS and
PFS in previously untreated locally advanced metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.
In the overall population, we did see a positive trend, though not statistically significant.
Importantly, we did see potentially clinically meaningful improvements in both PFS and OS. These
improvements in these pre-specified subgroups and biomarker driven subgroups were nominally
statistically significant and the upper bound of the confidence and specifically did not include one
and we saw treatment effects that were meaningful in our view.
However, we don't believe at this point in time that this would constitute a fileable program. Now
what we do believe these results support the continued study of canakinumab in earlier stages of
lung cancer. We believe they also support further evaluation of pro tumor inflammation because
the signals we saw were meaningful.
On CANOPY A the study, we believe more closely reflects the cancer study remains a high risk
study, to be clear, but nonetheless, we think it's important to complete this study to really
understand if there is a possibility to replicate the remarkable findings of the cancer study is so
important for patients if we could actually demonstrate that.
Now in addition, we wouldn't want to highlight, as I think there has been confusion about this in
this study, we did not see meaningful differences in the safety profile of the canakinumab arm
versus the control arm of PD one plus chemo. So that kind of gives you an overview, we would
note as well we have a number of other pro tumor inflammation medicines oral medicines as well
as gevokizumab which is another anti IL-1 agent that has regulatory or has LOE into the mid 2030s
and of course, we're evaluating that medicine and a few other cancer settings and we'll evaluate
as well, if there is a credible case to do anything further in metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.
Then moving to slide 22, Lastly, before handing it over to Marie-France we've accelerate our ESG
efforts 29 million patients reached a next generation malarial therapy now entering Phase III studyis a 10-year commitment to really support addressing health inequities and health disparities in
the United States and we've committed to net zero carbon on top of all of our other
environmental commitments using science-based targets to achieve by 2040 consistent with
many of our other large companies that we'll be announcing these as top 26. With that I will hand
it over to Marie-France.
`Marie-France Tschudin, President `
Thank you Vas. So moving on to slide 24. Good morning, good afternoon to all. It's my pleasure to
share the results of the Pharmaceuticals Division for Q3. Sales grew 8% this quarter driven by a
clear focus of our launch drivers, our growth drivers and supported by the solid execution across
geographies.
As you can see the growth drivers and launches have strong momentum we're growing 32% and
now they account for 54% of sales. This is 10 points above prior year and in line with our strategy.
Looking at year-to-date, you can see us accelerating our momentum and we're on track to have a
strong finish to the year.
Moving on to slide 25, Cosentyx grew 22% with solid contributions from both dermatology and
rheumatology. In the US, we're growing volume with the market. We're holding our leadership
position in Europe and in China, we're leveraging our NRDL listing.
China is now our third biggest market. We've also strengthened our evidence base with multiple
pediatric indications further reinforcing the proven efficacy and safety of Cosentyx. To maintain
our momentum in Q4 and beyond, we remain focused on our competitiveness in the field, the
flawless execution of our marketing teams and the activation of two key groups of patients.
Those with PSO PSA comorbidity that need strong efficacy in both skin and joints and the axial
SpA patients who can benefit from all in one Release.
So I move on to slide 26, while Cosentyx has been on the market for six years, every year is a
launch here. Cosentyx has approved across five indications, all of them have low biologic
penetration. With a strong value proposition and evidence based, Cosentyx will continue to
capture growth. Cosentyx is also the only IL inhibitor with NRDL listing in China, we see strong
growth potential in this market.
We have an ambitious lifecycle management plan, which is starting to deliver. We've seen positive
readouts for giant cell arthritis in our IV formulation in Q3. We also expect data for hidradenitis
suppurativa in Q4. Overall we're looking at a potential of 10 plus indications in our areas of high
unmet need and an ambition to double the number of patients on Cosentyx. This gives us
confidence that we can grow Cosentyx to at least $7 billion.
Moving on to slide 27, Entresto grew 44% in the quarter, reaching $2.6 billion year-to-date. The
ACC and ESC first line recommendations for Entresto are translating into penetration gains and
the expanded US label is driving NBRx growth and uptake in primary care. In Asia, China continues
to deliver strong growth on the back of our NRDL listing and Japan is gaining traction. Both have
acceleration potential based on our recent approvals in hypertension. As we pull through the US
and the EU guideline recommendations and promote the expanded label in the US, we are well
set up to maintain growth in Q4.
On slide 28, if we think about the future story of Entresto it continues in line with our existing
trend. We know that there remains significant patient potential. We have 4 million patients on
treatment with Entresto today yet 70% of eligible patients can still benefit. In the US where we
have a broad chronic heart failure label 85% of addressable patients are still on prior standard ofcare. And that makes ASON arms are clear competitive focus. With the recent guideline changes
positioning Entresto in first-line we now have an opportunity to drive broader an earlier adoption
of Entresto globally. So overall we're bullish about the continued growth of Entresto to at least $5
billion.
If I move on to slide 29, Zolgensma had a strong quarter and has just surpassed $1 billion in sales
for the year. In the US, we're treating over 90% of babies according to our label due to the high
rates of newborn screening. In Europe we have strong uptake in Germany and Italy and we saw a
bolus of sales in the UK following reimbursement.
We expect, we've seen the bulk of this in Q3, but we have also reached agreement on
reimbursement in Russia and a number of smaller EU markets. So if we look ahead, we see four
key drivers of future growth. New markets with Egypt, Saudi Arabia, BeneluxA expected to
contribute in Q4 increasing newborn screening, so that we can treat patients early on when the
benefit of gene therapy is a greatest. Heavier patients our SMART study aims to drive confidence
in value across the full EU label and intrathecal. Following the alignment of our Phase 3 study
design we are now one step closer to bringing IT to patients H2 to 18 and thus ultimately address
the full spectrum of SMA.
If I move on to slide 30, while the multiple sclerosis market has contracted quarter over quarter,
Cosentyx grew 66%. Importantly Cosentyx has been a strong driver of the dynamic (Inaudible)
market with an additional 1,000 patients on treatment. Our strategy remains focused on three
elements, increasing familiarity we're maintaining a high share of voice and we've added more
than 500 prescribers versus Q2.
Driving further clinical differentiation we just presented 3.5 years of IGG data at ECTRIMS and
we're generating evidence on switching and patient reported outcomes needed to change
clinical practice. We're also focusing on customer experience ensuring fast on boarding and
broad access to make it easy to initiate patients. We continue to see more than 50% of our
uptake in first Lang for Switch and we know how important this is because this is where we can
have the highest impact on progression and long-term outcomes. We see huge potential in this
B-cell market and we're driving the growth in the dynamic segments. We have the right strategy
and we're going to take further share as the market rebounds.
Moving on to slide 31, on Leqvio, we most certainly saw that we received nice approval and we're
currently working to implement our broad reaching commercial agreement with NHS England.
We have also been fully focused on the upcoming US launch. We're working closely with health
care systems to prioritize ASCVD to identify patients to setup buy-and-bill and we're also
leveraging our Entresto sales force to educate on the unmet need in ASCVD. For customers who
may not want buy-and-bill we're creating a network of alternative injection centers where patients
can receive Leqvio. We've signed up more than a thousand centers and expect them to become
a significant factor and in pulling through our demand early on.
We're also ensuring we generate the right evidence needed to succeed in the US market. Based
on our engagement we expect the majority of the 200 prioritized health care systems to start
treating patients in 2022. The uptake will be skewed to the second half of the year when the
majority of the systems, should be ready for buy-and-bill and our permanent J-Code should be
issued.
We're working with diligence. We're taking a long-term perspective on what needs to be done to
transform how ASCVD is treated to make Leqvio one of the biggest medicines for Novartis. Insummary, we continue to execute against our strategy maximize our growth drivers, deliver our
launches and prepare for the next wave of products.
The teams are working with a strong sense of urgency and purpose to be more customer
focused, so we can bring our innovation to more patients faster. I want to thank the teams around
the world for their commitment and show my confidence in the continued momentum for a
strong year-end.
Now, let me hand it over to Susanne.
`Susanne Schaffert, President `
Thank you Marie-France. Moving to slide 33, the oncology business delivered a solid quarter,
growing 5% versus prior year with sales of $3.9 billion. Our growth drivers as well as recent
launches performed well with 16% growth versus previous year driven by Jakavi, Promacta,
Revolade and Kisqali.
Together these products now contribute to more than half of the overall oncology sales. In the
third quarter we have seen healthcare systems in oncology slowly returning back to normal as
patient visits diagnosis and treatment rates are gradually improving in that new patient starts
continue to accumulate and expect this to translate into growth acceleration in segments like
recent launches and hospital administer products by the end of the year.
Moving to slide 34, Kisqali delivered strong performance in the third quarter, growing 27% with
sales of $230 million. The uptake was mainly driven by continued very strong momentum in
patient share gains ex-US, particularly in Europe. We achieved market leading position with 40%
patient share in pre-menopausal patients in the EU for and UK. It is a doubling in patient share
since we reported overall survival results from Monaleesa 7.
In the US, Kisqali grew 5% versus previous year, driven by increased demand in pre and post
menopausal patients. This usage shifting to earlier lines of therapy, which is very encouraging.
And as you heard from Vas, we are very excited about the new OS data from MONALEESA-2 that
showed the longest overall survival ever reported in advanced breast cancer achieving a median
overall survival of over five years.
We believe that such impressive results evidence of Kisqali's ability to change tumor biology to
enable a better response to endocrine-based therapy. Kisqali is now the only CDK46 inhibitor
that is proven OS benefit across all 3 Phase 3 trials of the MONALEESA program with different
endocrine therapy partners regardless of menopausal status or line of therapy.
Therefore, with a lot of confidence in Kisqali we have started a collaboration with (inaudible) and
initiated a Phase III trial called Harmonia to evaluate ribociclib versus palbociclib in patients with
aggressive HER-2 enriched intrinsic subtype of HR positive HER-2 advanced breast cancer. As Vas
said, we are also very excited about the (inaudible) NATALEE study that is exploring Kisqali in both
intermediate and high-risk population and this would have the potential to more than triple
patients of the metastatic setting. NATALEE study completed enrollment ahead of schedule in
second quarter of this year and we are looking forward to a read out in 2022.
Moving to the next slide, I am pleased to share with you that our two blockbusters in the
hematology franchise Promacta Revolade and Jakavi continue to deliver very strong double-digit
performance driven by strong demand across all regions. Promacta Revolade is our
thrombopoietin receptor agonist indicated for use in ITP and aplastic anemia. The brand
continued to perform very strongly driven by sustained efficacy oral convenience and non-immunosuppressive profile. In the US alone we have seen 10% increase in new patient starts
versus previous year and expecting that further uptake will be fueled with the expansion of the
US indication to include persistent ITP.
Ex-US Revolade is also performing strongly driven by increased use in both indications and also
additional amount -- demand from China. Jakavi is our JAK inhibitor and the standard of care in
myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera and has also demonstrated impressive growth with
significant uptake coming from earlier use in both indication and strong momentum in China.
We have completed filings acute and chronic graft versus host disease in the EU and are actively
preparing for launches in 2022. So overall, I'm very pleased with the performance of these two
important hematological brands and the potential they have in terms of future growth and patient
benefit.
Moving to Slide 36. I would like to update you on how we are preparing for the upcoming
launches of a Asiminib and Lu-PSMA A617. Asiminib is our STAMP inhibitor that has the potential to
transform the standard of care in CML. In the Phase III assemble study, Asiminib nearly doubled
the major molecular response rate at 24 weeks compared to (inaudible). Asiminib is well
positioned for launch in third line CMO as we are preparing to leverage our broad commercial
footprint and the established collaboration with the hematology community. We are pleased to
see a very high pre-launch, awareness of 80% amongst dermatologists. We have completed FDA
and EMA filing earlier in June. The US FDA has granted to breakthrough therapy designations and
fast-track designation for Asiminib.
And is reviewing the file on the real term oncology review. This approval expected early next year.
And just to remind you that Asiminib has blockbuster potential in the third line, but we are also
seeing opportunity to address the unmet need in first-line CMO and therefore have initiated a
Phase 3 study of our Asiminib versus investigator selected TKIs with final readout expected in
2024.
Another exciting asset that we are preparing to launch is our radioligand therapy Lutetium PSMA
617, that has demonstrated significant OS and our RPFS benefit in advanced metastatic prostate
cancer. Our awareness campaign on PSMA & Phenotypic Precision Medicine is progressing well
with the awareness among target physicians doubling over the last 12 months. Our focus is on the
top 200 treatment centers and education about process optimization, as well as on treatment
site expansion to ensure site readiness at launch.
We completed filing with FDA and in addition to Breakthrough Therapy designation also received
priority review, PDUFA date in the first half of 2022. In addition, we have completed filing to FDA
for registration of our own gallium PSMA 11 PET kit to further support availability of imaging
agents.
And submission of both Lutetium PSMA and gallium PSMA PET to the EMA is on track. So, we are
moving this confidence into earlier lines of therapy and have initiated two Phase III studies with
Lutetium PSMA in metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer and in pre-taxane metastatic
prostate cancer.
So, overall very much looking forward to bringing these two assets to market and with that, I hand
over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. Thank you, Susanne. Good morning and good afternoon everyone. And now going to walk
you through some of the financials for the third quarter and the first nine months of the year and
that's always my comments refer to growth rates in constant currencies unless otherwise noted.
So on slide 38, we see the summary of our operational performance for the third quarter the first
nine months very solid quarter 3, with strong performance of our Innovative Medicines division. As
we had anticipated the business is normalizing post COVID-19 with Group sales up 5% and core
operating income growth of 9%.
Quarter 3 net sales reached $13 billion, driven by the Innovative Medicines growth drivers. Core
operating income of $4.5 billion was driven by higher sales and productivity programs across the
business. Core EPS was up 11% to $1.71 and free cash flow grew very strongly by plus 64% in $4.4
billion.
Year-to-date performance reflects the slower growth in the first half of the year, mainly due to
the impact of COVID in certain parts of our business. We grew top and bottom line 4% and core
EPS grew 7% to $4.88 and free cash flow was $10.3 billion growing 23% in US dollars. Next slide
please. Slide 39. I want to break down our performance by division. And as mentioned the solid
performance of the company was driven by Innovative Medicines which delivered a strong
quarter with 7% top line growth, 13% bottom line growth and the margin of almost 38%. Looking
to the first nine months for the year Innovative Medicine showed a healthy growth of 6% on top
line and 8% on the bottom line with margins of 37%.
I'd just like to remind you of the seasonality of margins. As you know, the fourth quarter as usually
the lowest margin due to higher spending phasing Innovative Medicines year-to-date
performance was driven by continued strong double-digit growth of the key brands Vas and
Marie-France and Susanne mentioned with $3.5 billion sales growth -- sales growing 18% for
Cosentyx, Entresto with $2.6 billion, growing 41%. Zolgensma reached already $1 billion sales. The
Kesimpta launch was accelerating. Additionally, the onco key growth drivers, continue to do very
well.
Moving to Sandoz, nine months performance reflects a heavier impact from COVID then in the
other parts of the business. However, in quarter 3 Sandoz has seen some recovery particularly
ex-US where sales grew 3% driven by both biopharmaceuticals and retail generics.
US sales were impacted by a double-digit price erosion, partnership terminations, as well as
higher off contract sales in the prior year. US continues to be a challenging business environment
for a wider generics market. However, we expect the situation to improve also in the US and the
mid term as the impact of COVID-19 lessens in our biosimilar largest begin to deliver
On slide 40, I just want to highlight the impressive growth we have seen free cash flow, which is
now $10.3 billion for the first month, nine months, up 23% compared to the prior year. The main
drivers of this have been higher operating income, lower payment from legal matters compared
to what we had last year and favorable working capital.
Now turning to our full year guidance on slide 41. Overall for the Group reconfirm the current
guidance for sales, we continue to expect low to mid single digit growth. And for the bottom line,
we expect mid-single digit growth ahead of sales. For Innovative Medicines and Sandoz we are
confirming the top line guidance, but we are fine tuning our bottom line guidance.
We continue to expect Innovative Medicines division sales to grow mid single digits. Reflecting
the strong performance of the division we have revised upwards operating income guidance
which we now expect to grow high single-digit. For Sandoz we continue to expect sales todecline, low to mid single digit range, but we now expect cooperating income to decline mid to
high teens. The key assumption for the guidance is that we see a continuation of the return to
normal global healthcare systems and prescription dynamics in the remainder of the year. And in
addition, we continue to assume that no Gilenya, and no Sandostatin LAR generics enter the US
market in 2021.
Next slide please. We thought it might be helpful to you to outline our expectations for the fourth
quarter. In short, we expect a similar growth in quarter 4 as we had it in quarter 3. With the top
line grow in the mid-single digit range and bottom line growing high single digit. Taking into
account our year-to-date 4% growth, both for top and bottom line this brings us to our full year
guidance of low to mid single digit growth for sales and mid single-digit growth for the core
operating income line.
Finally, on Slide 43, as currencies are constantly changing, I want to bring to your attention the
estimated impact currencies would have on our results using the current exchange rates. So if
late October rates prevail for the remainder of 2021. The full year impact of currencies would be
a positive 2 points on both sales and core operating income.
For quarter 4, but would be negative 1% point on sales and between zero and negative 1% point
on core operating income. And as a reminder, we always update these impacts of the currencies
on our website on a monthly basis. And with that I hand it over back to Vas.
`Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. Moving to slide 45. We did want to give you an update on some of the events
we will be holding later this year and into next year. Based on feedback from our investors, we've
decided to convert our December 2 event as our Capital Markets Day to focused R&D event on
Innovative Medicines.
Here we will go over our R&D asset, lifecycle management programs, our mid-stage portfolio in
each of our key therapeutic areas as well as well our newer scientists on hand to discuss our
technology platforms and other efforts within net NIBOR[ph] and on May 23 and 24th 2022 we'll
plan for a meet Novartis Management Event which we hope to hold in person.
So moving to slide 46 and closing solid quarter, strong performance from Innovative Medicines,
we've raised our peak sales guidance really demonstrating our confidence in the long-term
growth of the company. We remain confident in the pipeline in the large brands to fuel our
growth not only in the mid-term but also with our science innovation for the longer term. And
we've announced a strategic review of Sandoz a leading business in generics operating an
attractive market. But this is the right moment to really evaluate, who is the best owner for that
business for the long term. So thank you very much for listening and we'll open the line up for
questions, I would say to each of our questioners if you could limit yourself to one question and
then move back into the queue we can do our best to accommodate everyone's questions. So
with that operator, please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of
America. Please ask your question.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `Great, thanks for taking the question. So it's on naturally and your comments on the slide that you
re-review the FDA feedback in that invasive disease free survival is except for was a primary
endpoint provided no detriment to overall survival and that seems contrary to how it's treated
Verzenio[ph] where they were asking for more OS state to see if course is separating.
So could I just clarify when was that feedback given and why do you think FDA could treat Kisqali
differently from Verzenio and are you stratifying by Ki-67 score as well given the FDA was also
interested in or only approved in that biomarker population for Verzenio. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Graham, John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yeah, thanks for the question. Graham and we did have discussions with the FDA on our NATALEE
trial. As you know, we increased the sample size for our NATALEE trial knowing the criteria that
we've included for the overall study population. These discussions were recent, I would say that it
was within the end of the third quarter where we had these discussions and they gave us very
clear feedback that the design and the endpoints actuate would be supportive based on the
invasive DFS endpoint.
Given that obviously, the results would be based upon the overall totality of the evidence that's
available. As Vas disclosed earlier and shared with you, we have looked at the overall patient
population. We've looked at the overall population focused on intermediate and high-risk patients
in this study, which is based on the AJCC criteria that also includes biomarkers and gene
expression tests to select the high-risk patient population, overall.
So what we also know is based on the intermediate-risk population but IDFS rates are similar in
the intermediate-risk population as in the high-risk population, so based on the overall totality of
the background here. We're very confident in our approach.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe just want is add and I think specifically, we do collect Ki-67 data in the study. But right now,
that's not part of our statistical analysis plan. And of course we'll share that data with the FDA
when requested. Thanks, Graham. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, yes. Thanks for taking my question. Just on the Sandoz strategic review. I wonder if you could
give us some insight into perhaps what internally there are metrics that you'll capture thing we're
looking at during the course of next year, and also whether or not there is still the aim both I
guess return this business to growth, but also still potentially, but the margins back on a positive
trajectory for the business is separated or if you now believe that the US oral solids business is
now essentially terminal decline and that business is not a business that you feel it's appropriate
to be part of Novartis. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Peter. So I think as always. And as we learned through our Alcon review as well. We
consider a number of factors, one of course is the synergies between our Innovative Medicines
business and the Sandoz -- Sandoz business, as well as the this synergies between holding both
of these business, we also consider I think capital allocation and capital allocation measures to
ensure we're optimally allocating capital to maximize shareholder returns.
We, of course, want to consider what would enable us to build the best generics company, the
aspiration to be a leading generics company in the world and what setup would best enable that.
So, I mean those are all the in broad strokes, the factors and I think you saw with the Alcon spin
that were adapted and understanding these factor is hopefully making the best decision for our
shareholders and the relevant businesses and then taking the relevant actions. Harry, anything
you want to add.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
I think Peter, of course, all of the other details right the different options have different tax
implications if it would not be retaining the business. All of those you would expect that we would,
of course, always consider, but I think all of this will be part of our strategic review and I think
fundamentally the question comes down to who is the best owner of this very good generic
business.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe, Richard on the growth profile Richard.
A - `Richard Saynor, CEO, Sandoz `
Yeah. Thank you, guys. I mean you comment about the US, I mean clearly that the US business
we've just had very few launches in terms of oral solids over the last year, 18 months and clearly
washing out a number of the partnership deals as well. The medium, long-term looks much more
attractive, both as we accelerate the number of small molecule launches, but also more
importantly we bring a number of biosimilars to the marketplace over the next three four years
we should materially change the direction of the business, both in the US.
It's also worth noting that the European business now is back into growth as is our international
business. So broadly is starting to normalize post COVID.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. Thanks, Peter for the question. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. A question for John relates to canakinumab. John, if I remember in cancer, the early
filtration of the curves, the treatment effect that we saw with canakinumab was attributed to
metastatic disease in these patients. With that in mind, this you may, it is a viable mechanism.
Should we expect interim analysis to readout positively and if it doesn't, we should therefore
seen in the products you have success is very low. And then separately, perhaps you couldcomment on whether even there is any role for this drug given this is an increasingly well served
indication mainly adjuvants with Tecentriq degree so and more indications more drugs on the
way. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Andrew, I'll take it, obviously, because I was here for the Kansas study Evan I was
development. So in that, in that result I think first and foremost, it's important to note that the
cancer study had an inclusion criteria of 2 milligrams of deal of hsCRP the median was in that kind
of 2 to 5 range in the overall study population.
Our hypothesis at the time was these were undetected cancers, cancers where there were not
detected in the screening either through physical diagnosis or imaging. And then in the course of
the study canakinumab was able to reduce the incidence of these cancer is becoming prominent
and the mortality of these patients.
This we believed was due to IL-1 beta as role in the tumor microenvironment and IL-1 beta
potentially having a role in enabling and blocking IL-1 beta enabling immune cells to enter the
cancer and therefore potential synergistic effect in the metastatic setting and in the adjuvant
setting that in the initial stages of a tumors development that IL-1 beta plays an important --
important role.
So I don't think that an interim read on this is going to be meaningful. I think the study was going
to have to go, go to the end. We believe the positioning of the medicine is very much that
canakinumab in our view, has a very favorable safety profile, given the long experience we are
treating children with this medicine who find it very well tolerated.
We didn't see any differences in the first line setting and so having the potential, and I would say
it's high risk to be clear of an all comers therapy for the adjuvant setting that does not require any
PD1 screening could be attractive. Now whether physicians choose an IL-1 beta therapy or a PD1
inhibitor that will all have to be figured out, but it's important to know as well the adjuvant
CANOPY A study is an all comers study based on what we knew at the time from the cancer
study and is the lowest CRP group of these studies in terms of the median CRP levels in the
enrolled patients most consistent of the cancer study. Thank you, Andrew. Next question,
operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, UBS from UBS. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, UBS `
Hello, thank you very much. And just on your new Entresto peak sales guidance, does that $5
billion number capture the possibility of an LOE earlier than the 2025 (inaudible) date that we've
been talking about so far. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President `Yeah. So for our internal forecasting assumptions. We're looking at 2025 and that's how we've
forecasted. So if you'd like a little bit more detail on why we feel comfortable with the 5 billion
plus on on Entresto it's really based on the significant market potential. The further
implementation of guidelines and obviously the recent launches in Asia, and that leads us to 5
billion plus mark, but that is assuming for our internal guidance say 2025 LOE.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Marie-France. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please ask your question.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thanks so much. Question for Susanne on Lu-PSMA. I was wondering if you are pursuing on the
Diagnostics side a Technetium PSMA imaging kit because the feedback that we've had from --
from radiologist over here is that there is huge excitement in the UK about about Lu-PSMA but
there is, there is some concern that each utility beyond large centers, because of the need for
gallium PSMA screening will make it harder to use more broadly. I just wonder if that's feedback
you've seen elsewhere. If you're looking at using the the much more easy to administer if not
quite so impressive Technetium PSMA kit in order support in the number of centers that can
practically use it. Thanks so much.
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President `
So, thank you, Simon for questions. So, we have focused on gallium PSMA really to have this
ready for launch and we wanted to make sure that there is a diagnostic available, you see the
other options also focus on gallium and then I think there is quite a push for fluoride PSMA
diagnostic as this is still, I would say across the T7 markets the most used diagnostics. I think
Technetium is quite focused in the UK. I didn't hear so much about that ex-UKs and I mean as we
are targeting earlier lines of therapy. You have to see that we really have and diagnostic available
that is very easily available and that's certainly the floor [ph] right one. So that's what we are
focusing on and probably Technetium is quite focused in the US, sorry, in the UK.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dan. I just wanted to take a step back. I would clarify comment I made to Graham's
question for NATALEE we are collecting Ki-67, it's about 70% to 80% of the total enrolled
patients. It's part of the statistical analysis plan, but not a pre-specified stratification factor. So,
with that we'll move to the next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, thank you for the question. One on Leqvio, please. Marie-France kind of you spoke about the
confidence in Leqvio launch and the preparedness for that going into 2022, kind of the clarity
around what you partnered with NHS in England still remains very kind of them -- a very clear --unclear. So, just wondering, if you can give us a bit more details on how we should think about the
rollout of this molecule in the UK?
And then just in the same vein, I think consensus is looking at about $250 million in revenue for
this drug next year, do you think that appropriately reflects what do you see as the launch
dynamics for this, or should be thinking about something lower or higher than $250 million for
Leqvio next year? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President `
So thanks for the question and the opportunity to talk about Leqvio. So on the UK, first of all,
we're very happy with the positive NICE approval and the commitment from the NHS to fund and
treat 300,000 ASCVD patients. I think that's provide solid proof that we can get the broad
access prior to the outcomes data and based on the back of obviously solid evidence around
LDLC lowering. So what we're doing right now in the UK, and this is going to be the focus for the
next couple of months is really identify patients and work on the care pathways to reach 1200 GP
networks.
It's early days, but we're doing, we're having -- we're seeing really great progress around central
funding the digital patient ID, the incentives for GPs and the educational programs and the
feedback from lipid specialists and GPs has also been very positive. So, we expect a slow ramp in
Q4, but you can expect to see some significant ramp up in Q1 of next year for the UK. If, I then
turn to the US again here, we're focusing on the 200 systems of care and as we said, we're also
looking to build, buy-and-bill the first half of the year is going to be focused on our J-code
building up the buy-and-bill infrastructure going through the P&T reviews and making sure that
we're ready and then you'll see that uptick towards the second half of the year and the number
you quoted, we feel extremely comfortable with that number for next year.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Marie France. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of CMS Fernandez from Guggenheim Securities, please
ask your question.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities `
So. Great, thanks so much. Just a quick question, I noticed that your G12C agent moved into or is
planned to move into Phase 3. Just help us understand the data that prompted the planned
advancement of the KRAS G12C inhibitor. And then just as a follow on to that, do you think that
asset can differentiate meaningfully from other therapies on its own or is the differentiation really
keyed to near-term development in combination with your SHP2 inhibitor? Thanks.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. I'll hand that to John. John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `Hey seamless. Thanks for the question. And our KRAS G12C which is JDQ4 33 in our program
we've advanced this molecule forward and plan to have Phase III in phase V the first half of next
year. What we've seen is really good PK-PD data and good tolerability by the patients. As we
move forward. You'll be hearing more about this in the congresses next year. On your specific
question about the strategy moving forward and differentiation versus the other KRAS G12C
potential marketplace in the marketplace.
Now we think that the approach for KRAS G12C is really in combinations. What we've seen so far
is that you are getting durability is probably not as long as what we would like. And that we're
seeing mutations and with those mutations it will be a combination approach and these
combinations, could be a number of factors including our potential T&O SHP2 to in our pipeline.
You'll be hearing about that combination from our pipeline next year also.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Keppeler[ph] from Morgan Stanley. Please ask your
question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hello. Thanks for taking my question. And so if you could help us understand the rationale for
taking your BTK inhibitor or any breakthrough forward in CSU, especially when mechanism at is
being trialed in this setting also. And how are you thinking about positioning of the two assets
relative to one in other and also to Dupixent[ph]. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for the question, John.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yes. So Remibrutinib as you probably have seen is our highly selective and potent covalent oral
BTK inhibitor. We did do an extensive Phase 2 program in CSU, which was recently released and
what we saw is really good uptake and the efficacy was extremely strong. Now, what we've seen
is the efficacy, we're seeing both at four weeks, and at 12 weeks and and in addition of that we
saw efficacy very early at one-week time point. So, really strong efficacy data back on the safety
profile, which as we think about BTK inhibitors sometimes are saddled with LLPs, also cytopenia's
and we did not see that in our overall program. So, given our approach, we're very comfortable
advancing CSU in our Phase 3 program.
Now one thing we should also note is ligelizumab, we've seen Phase II results, which were equally
strong and the approach that we're taking here is ligelizumab would be given -- giving patients an
opportunity at Q4 we treatment with a subcu injection and then Remibrutinib would be an oral
opportunity given the large massive unmet need and CSU patient population that's overall for.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, Marie-France can have a few more points. Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President `Yeah, so just maybe going back to the size of the market and the unmet need. So we know there
about 1.3 million CSU patients who are inadequately controlled in the top 11 markets. In fact, these
patients are on anti-histamines and steroids and really almost consider the sort of forgotten or
unwanted patients. So we really want to make a difference in this space. Of course we have
potentially strongly differentiated asset with ligelizumab and an opportunity to increase the
biologic penetration.
We also have a strong footprint right, not only with dermatologists. But, don't forget that we work
with Xolair in the US and so we have the strong relationships with allergists as well. And then
bringing oral to market would really sort of complete the picture and make it perhaps a attractive
first option post anti-histamine for CSU patients. So, we're very excited about this space, we think
we can build on the legacy that we've already built and make a real difference for these patients.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marie-France. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. I wonder if I could just go back to Sandoz and if you could give us a little bit more
detail on your biosimilar program. If we're going to be trying to value this will have to really think
about this in perhaps more detail when we do, or we just look at Novartis on it own. So perhaps
you could just tell us a little bit about where you think you're going to be particularly successful
and give us some help as to see how we're going to get to $3 billion by your 3 sales target.
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Thanks, Jo. I'll hand it over to Richard. Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, CEO, Sandoz `
Thank you, Jo, as you know, we don't normally disclose specific details of our programs. What I
will say is, we intend to launch 6 biosimilars in both the US and Europe over the next few years,
which will start rapidly accelerating our business. I'm currently we have over 15 an expanding
number of projects both in-house development or through partnership deals that we intend to
launch in the coming years. So clearly as we go through the process and whatever times
appropriate will give greater clarity in terms of the makeup of that but obviously it's relatively
sensitive in terms of recent disclosure.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think the only point I would add is and I think it does its best to cover the major LOEs. I think that
really is another wave of LOE's in this kind 24 beyond standpoint and biologics and with an
increasing interest in the US to enable biosimilars to fully participate. I think it's a tremendous
opportunity for the Sandoz business. Thanks, Joe. Next question, operator.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of Richard Vosser from JP Morgan. Please ask your
question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just going on to Cosentyx. Obviously you last -- this year we
had some formulary disruptions which you've navigated very well. Maybe you could give us an
idea how the discussions have gone for 2022 and is that a normalization, have you so that you
can see volume growth coming through or managed to win back and again positioning? Thanks
very much.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President `
So thank you, Richard. So you're absolutely right. In the US, we've seen strong value growth
versus previous year due to the fact that change what we have seen now in Q3 is quarter over
quarter volume growth and that's in line with the market. So we do expect volume growth to be
the growth driver in the US for 2022.
We also expect our access positioned to stay stable and we do believe that most major key
payers will have us on formulary. So ultimately what we need to do in the US next year is really
focus on our strengths, which is our existing markets. I talked about the focus on the PSO, PSA
comorbid patient. There are 2/3 of the patients that have additional manifestations. And we have
a really broad body of evidence in this space.
The axial SpA patients and then of course preparing for IV, which could be a significant
opportunity in the US, 14% to 18% of these patients are in medical benefit for PSA. And then of
course our hidradenitis suppurativa 220,000 patients in the US so significant opportunities to
prepare for in 2023.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Marie France. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Exane BNP Paribas from Exane BNP Paribas. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. It's just on business developments and M&A, you've been
relatively quiet this year. So I'm just wondering if you could talk about your appetite for M&A
based on opportunities out there and valuations and maybe thoughts on capital allocation. If
there weren't sort of near-term opportunities and thinking about buyback when a decision might
be made on that. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. Harry?A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Richard. Overall, we remain with our capital allocation priorities as we obviously laid out
investment the organic business growing dividend as you have seen in March coming in over 7
billion and then of course bolt on M&A and in-licensing, where we did the in-licensing of
tislelizumab from 650 million and we have continuously, of course, winning the market and we
continue to look opportunistically for bolt on M&A opportunities that fit our franchises and existing
infrastructures, if you will, but of course, they won't happen every year, therefore that's why was
the, up to and from that standpoint, not a formula. But we continue to, to be basically on that
path.
And then from a share buyback standpoint as you know, we always buy back employee points of
patient program as we did this year to never dilute our shareholders and we finished in the first
half our 2.5 billion program that we announced end of last year. So we are working along those
lines. On our capital allocation and no change in our M&A and BD strategy.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Gary. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Naresh Chouhan from Intron Health. Please ask your
question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi there, thanks for taking my question. Just one on Sandoz (Technical Difficulty) in the more
integrated into Novartis on Alcon was to be really helpful if you could quantify the size of these
synergies is not fully separating out to allow us going to value any value creation from a
separation there. Thank you.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, that's of course what is strategic review will inform us about, so that's why we take some
time to do that very thoroughly and you know that I would say there are two components to this
also, if I compare this to the Alcon situations as we analyzed and of course, no decision made at
all. So they could also of retaining but also in case of the separation, I would say it's probably a bit
easier at the moment because Richard and Steffen Lang and our technical operations team and
the Sandoz team are focused on making the manufacturing and supply chain as autonomous as
possible over the last two to three years and that's phase it has been completed and within
Novartis. So there, we are probably ahead of where we were when we announced Alcon. On the
other hand of course, the business has been built over 20 years plus with acquisitions and
system-wise fully integrated where Alcon probably was better more separate as it was shorter
with the Company.
So we have a couple of head and tailwinds. But that's why doing such reviews takes that time and
we indicate that in a good year. We will give an update if things go a bit faster become earlier, but
this is operation complex and of course we have to exactly figure out synergies, this synergies,
potential stand up cost tax considerations, as well as separation costs.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Operator
Your next question comes from the line of (inaudible) from SocGen. Please ask your question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you so much for taking my question. A quick one on asciminib,
but we're just wondering if you could elaborate a bit on your strategy in the first line because you
all just starting the clinical program, has you will position this product versus the pretty good
already existing drugs. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President `
Thank you, (inaudible). As you heard us we are quite excited about asciminib to get this prepared
for launch in 3rd line as you show we saw remarkable results ruxolitinib in this setting, which tells
us that this mechanism of action is very effective and we know from medical experts and patients
that there is still high need in first-line CML patients really are on a lifelong treatment and we
know that if you have a fast and deep molecular response early on, this could even lead to
treatment free period and that's what really experts are aiming for.
So there is the desire to be even better in first-line and the approach that we take is really to
compare it to different TKIs, that's why we allow investigator selected TKI so that we have a
broad range of comparator products and then we have to see the focus certainly is then on the
deep molecular response and if we can prove that certainly that -- that really has significant
potential.
So that's the strategy we're pursuing for asciminib and if in early lines.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Susanne. Thanks, Laurent. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson from Wolfe Research. Please
ask your question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good afternoon. Thank you for the question. This is Richard Wagner with Wolfe Research on
behalf of Tim. Question on Sandoz please. How does Novartis avoided situation similar to Pfizer's
Upjohn spend, where they divest a lower multiple business now when analysts did some of the
parts analysis ended up with a figure that base we suggested this spend was destroyed value,
because some multiple in the Upjohn business was lower than that was put on the parent Pfizer
company and Sandoz end up causing the same thing to approach because (inaudible) multiples
are pretty much always lower than pharma company multiples. So, how can Novartis to mitigate
this? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yes, sir. Thanks, Richard. First and foremost, I think are focused on building a strong business with
clear sales growth outlook, strong margin outlook that can be a leading global generics player. I'd
also note that when you look in the generics sector, you see a wide range of multiples. When you
look at Specialty Generics players, players that are more exposed to Europe or Asia versus
players more exposed to the US. And so that's all of the work we need to do to really understand
what is the best way to maximize value for our shareholders, as well as enable standards to be a
successful as possible and we have a range, I think different options we could look like. And that's
very rightly point out, including retaining the business. So, I don't see it as an analogous situation,
especially given the Sandoz is the number one generics player in Europe. The number one global
antibiotics player in the industry and the number one biosimilars company globally in sales
primarily driven by its ex-US business.
So, relatively low US exposure, which in our view is what drives the lower multiples of some of the
peers. So that's kind of our perspective at the moment and will of course updated as we do the
assessment. Thanks a lot. Richard, for the question. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Wimal Kapadia from Bernstein. Please ask your
question.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Wimal?
Operator
Apologies it looks like the line is disconnected, so we'll go on to your next question, which comes
from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please ask your question.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Simon? All right. Next one operator.
Operator
One moment. It looks like I have open `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn's line. Please go ahead, Mr. Baker.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Hello, can you hear me?
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, we can here you Simon. Thank you.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Excellent, excellent. And yes, a quick question for how we just following up on the subject of the
buyback. Could you just remind us what your buyback mandate capacity left is, because I noticed
that this is the first Q3 for about eight years when you have what can stock. So just to remind on
what you would left able to buy would be, it would be great. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Simon. So we are pretty much, I think close to our authority from the
AGM. But we do usually that renewal of it. But overall when you look over the last years. We have
consistently done like it's not a formula again but roughly 2.5 billion per year of 5 billion every two
years. Again not a formula, it completely has to do with, what opportunities do we have basically
on M&A and bolt on M&A.
And then of course. So from a capital allocation standpoint, the first three priorities are worked
through. And then of course in terms of where the share price is, but it's not only a question of
share price of course also capital allocation priorities. And we just finished one. So from that
standpoint, at this moment we have not announced an additional one.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks so much.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. You have a further question from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Please ask your question.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay, great. Thanks for taking the question again. And this was on Remibrutinib, I just wondered
what data if any have on CNS this year for Remibrutinib if you have any brain penetration with its
an evidence of any effects on microglial cells. So that's something which kind of you obviously
talks about with tolebrutinib quite a lot.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Graham, John.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yes, thanks, Graham. We have done some pre-clinical studies in this area, we have seen CNS
penetration in this early stage what we don't know is exactly what the extent of the clinical
validation in the clinical correlation in the Central when you actually have central activation in these
areas. So given that what we're confident of overall in Remibrutinib is that it's a very clean profile
asset as I've stated earlier in terms of potency and selectivity. So we look forward to sharing
some of these preclinical data as well as the overall clinical profile for Remibrutinib.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thanks.A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question. Maybe just some back in the queue. Take a couple if I may
want to me of excess pipeline in neuroscience. It's been a somewhat slow story since the deal
we announced setback in Rett syndrome today, if you could just give us a bit more color on that,
was that safety risks you would like to that be very helpful. And next steps I think we were
anticipating clinical development and (inaudible) now, but I don't think we've announced anything
to date. And then maybe the second question if I may just the shape of '22, looks pretty similar to
'21 for you. And similarly thereafter. So, I'm thinking low mid single-digit sales growth with some
margin improvement, perhaps you could give us some initial thoughts on why not statement
might be wrong, particular head and tailwinds for next year would be helpful? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So thanks, Emmanuel. First on our gene therapy pipeline. First, we have a number of
targets that are progressing right now in the clinic me with the intrathecal now entering into Phase
III with a number of ophthalmology programs in the recent optogenetics acquisition. With some of
our neuroscience assets we've decided to optimize our program to ensure that we really get, I
think the ops -- optimal capsid as well as PAT insert combination that will enable us to maximize
efficacy. We've done extensive profiling work now and we think that's the prudent course. It
doesn't change our commitment to Rett syndrome Friedreich's ataxia and behind that we have a
number of other programs advancing in monogenic as well as polygenic neurological diseases.
So as with this field, we're always learning and this is a case where we learn something more in
our preclinical work and it's making us just take a pause and optimize the program and then we
hope to move that quickly again into the clinic. Clearly, these patients need better therapies. In
terms of the shape of '22, it's really of course premature for us to comment, but maybe Harry,
you could provide any perspective.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, it's always we have to tradition of guiding for next year with our full year results. You know,
end of January and overall on the margin progression. On the margin progression. If that was part
of the -- of the question, I would expect basically incremental continued improvement over the
next years, so that we do expect basically sales growth of course of next year's as Vas has laid
out with a 4% CAGAR roughly. And with that incremental margin improvements through after we
have improved the margin almost 300 basis points last year, you'll see another margin
improvement this year.
But, of course last year was also due to the almost inability to partly promote given the pandemic
situation. And on top of that we have now further improved with excellent productivity programs,
resource allocation and overall of course cost consciousness and changing the way we run the
company in a more efficient way taking full advantage of virtual opportunities.A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Emmanuel. Next question operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please ask
your question.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. I just wonder, if you could talk a little bit more about your enthusiasm in CAR-T. So the
current generation hasn't done so well, now you're bringing a new one in. What's going to be so
different? And have you solve problem whereby all the peoples blood can actually be more
effectively manipulated and just have more successful and perhaps faster treatments. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Jo. I mean we've, our teams have done a lot of work and we've learned a lot since
2015 when we have entered this space, but we continue to believe that CAR-T therapy, cell
therapies have that transformational benefit when successfully delivered, as you've seen in the
patient populations are currently license and have a tremendous potential.
So we invest in the, a new approach, which we believe can optimize our cost of goods.
Importantly, which enables us to make a much stronger financial return, optimizes our speed of
production, which enables us to flexibilize production increased scale.
But most importantly, hopefully can generate more durable and deep responses for these
patients, so that we get higher ORRs or CRs as are as relevant and we believe that continue to
believe that auto -- autologous approaches versus allo approaches are the best way to do that. I
think our number Sciences, have done an outstanding job and we will at least present the first set
of data at ASH, and then we'll move forward from there.
But I think it is worth remembering we have a global footprint and cell therapy is a global
capability and we have the ability, given our financial firepower to stay the course and really try to
be a long-term industry leader. Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Stephan Schneider from Global. Please ask your
question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, hi. Thank you. What kinds of cough and cold season is captured in your full year guidance and
maybe in this context, for quarter 4, you're right, could certain to return to pre-COVID levels in
several markets. Can you specify that a bit further. So what several, which markets do you think.
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Return on a cough and cold.
A - `Richard Saynor, CEO, Sandoz `Thank you, Stephan. And our guidance we've assumed, I guess a more normal cough and cold
season in line with previous season. So we've not assumed an exceptional one, but we've
assumed that in line with previous years worth noting that the previous cough and cold season
was pretty much non-existent due to social distancing and mask wearing but we're seeing that
normalizing a pickup in demand of our anti-infective business as well as our OTC business is
certainly in Europe and in other markets.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Richard. And I believe we have one last question. Operator.
Operator
Your final question comes from the line of Wimal Kapadia from Bernstein. Please ask your
question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Great, thank you for taking my question. I believe the somebody already ask on the microglia for
Remibrutinib. So, can I just ask on Kisqali, please. And just a feedback post the Monaleesa2 OS
benefit. Are you really seeing any increased appetite to use the drug versus the other CDK46 is?
And what is your base assumption for the share that you can now capture in the metastatic
setting longer term, will be take to have to change dynamics. Just looking at the -- the volume
trends in the US, the way you think that relatively modest expansion shared so far. So how should
we think about the next few years? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Wimal. Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President `
Yeah, thank you for the questions. So, I mean as you rightly say the Monaleesa2 data is certainly
the biggest segment where we now also could demonstrate OS data and we really hear
feedback from medical experts that is are quite impressive data and confirms that there is
something differentiated about Kisqali.
So, as I said the last weeks we see increased demand also in the US and we keep focus on really
delivering this message, working on getting this education story through. And we also quite
encouraged that now this COVID gating more normalized that more patient start, because that is
-- is of course certainly what was kind of hindering that with less patients getting new treatment
initiations. There was also less opportunity to grow. So, we remain confident in Kisqali. We will
focus on educating and I believe Kisqali is the best differentiated OS -- OS or CDK46 with strong
OS. And therefore, we believe we have the confidence for Kisqali to remain a significant growth
driver.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Susanne, and then Harry, just had one quick correction.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
I just I just looked at our rebating share buyback program. So as we just renewed recently it's
roughly $8.5 billion. So, we have room. But again, no plans at the moment.A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So to be in $8.5 billion authorization from the, from the AGM, but no plans at the moment. So with
that, we can close the call. Thank you all very much for joining. We look forward to you joining us
on December 2 on R&D Day where we'll have our R&D leaders walking through the pipeline,
giving you relevant details, hopefully getting your understanding up and hopefully excitement up
on our mid in early stage pipeline. Look forward to that discussion. In the meantime wish you all
very well. Thank you again.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.