Q1 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Tesla's First
Quarter 2021 Results and Q&A Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions). I will now hand the conference over to your speaker today `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations,
Senior Director of Investor Relations.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you, Carmen, and good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to Tesla's First Quarter 2021
Q&A Webcast. I'm joined today by `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer; `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer; and a number of other
executives. Our Q1 results were announced at about 1:00 PM Pacific Time in the update deck we
published at the same link as this webcast. During this call, we will discuss our business outlook
and make forward-looking statements. These comments are based on our predictions and
expectations as of today. Actual events or results could differ materially due to a number of risks
and uncertainties, including those mentioned in our most recent filings with the SEC.
(Operator Instructions). But before we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, great. Thank you. So, Q1 2021 was a record quarter on many levels as Tesla achieved record
production, deliveries and surpassed $1 billion in non-GAAP net income for the first time. And
we've seen a real shift in customer perception of electric vehicles and our demand is the best
we've ever seen. So, this is -- we're used to seeing a reduction in demand in the first quarter and
we saw an increase in demand that exceeded the normal seasonal reduction in demand in Q1.
So, Model 3 became the best-selling, let's say premier Sedan in the world, in fact, I should say
the best-selling luxury sedan of any kind in the world. The BMW 3 Series was for the longest time
the best selling premium sedan, it's been exceeded by the Tesla Model 3 and this is only three
and a half years into production and with just two factories. For Model 3, the outselling its
combustion engine to competitors, I think is quite remarkable. In the the past couple of quarters,
we delivered roughly a quarter-million Model 3's. So -- but, which translates to an annualized rate
of half a million per year.
When it comes to Model Y, we think Model Y will be the best-selling car or vehicle of any kind in
the world and probably next year. So I'm not 100% certain next year, but I think it's quite likely --
I'd say more likely than not that in 2022 Model Y is the best selling car or truck of any kind in theworld. And then with regards with full self-driving, full self-driving is to make great progress, but
this is definitely one of the -- I think one of the hardest technical problems that exists -- that's
maybe ever existed and really in order to solve it we basically need to solve a pretty significant
part of artificial intelligence, specifically real-world artificial intelligence and that -- that sort of AI,
the neural net compressed into a fairly small computer, a very efficient computer that we've
designed, but nonetheless small computer that's using on the order of 70 or 80 watts. So, this is
-- much harder problem if you -- what do you say 10,000 computers in a server room or
something like that.
This has got to fit into a smaller and this -- I think with the elimination of radar, we're finally getting
rid of one of the last crushers. Radar was really -- it was making up for some of the shortfalls of
vision, but this is not good, you actually just need vision to work and where team works, it works --
it works better than the best human, because it's like having eight cameras -- it's like having eyes
in the back your head besides you head and has three eyes at different focal distances looking
forward. This is -- yeah -- and processing at a speed that a super human. There is no question I
like that with a clear vision solution, we can make a car that is dramatically safer than the average
person.
So, but it is a hard problem because we are actually solving quite fundamental about artificial
intelligence, where we basically have to solve real world vision AI and we are. And key to solving
this is also having some massive dataset, so just having well over 1 million cars on the road that
are collecting data from very sort of corner case rare situations. Yeah, it's sort of like so many
weird things in the world like -- you get back say, a truck carrying a truck or a car with -- one
example -- a car with a kayak on the roof, where the kayak has a little weight dangling from the of
the Kayak in front of the car and the car must be ignore this and just look at the road. So, it's
really quite tricky, but I'm highly confident that we will get this done.
So yes, this quarter, and we'll continue to see that a little bit in Q2 and Q3. So, Q1 was -- had
some of the most difficult supply chain challenges that we have ever experienced in the life of
Tesla and same difficulties with supply chain, with parts of the -- whole range of parts. Obviously,
w learned about the chip shortage. This is a huge problem, but then in addition to that, for
example, we had quite a difficulty scaling, driving our production in China because we unable to
get a critical engineers there because of COVID quarantine restrictions.
So -- which meant that Tesla worldwide was dependent on driving it's made at our factory in the
Nevada -- Giga, Nevada. So, that was a very challenging situation. I think we're mostly out of that
particular problem, but that's was just two of many challenges. So, team is really good, done an
incredible job, dealing with really severe supply chain shortages.
So with respect to Model S and X, there are more challenges expected in dropping the Plaid
Model S, what's called the Palladium program, which is the new version of Model S and X, which
has revised interior and a new battery pack and new drive units, and new internal electronics and
has for example a PlayStation 5 level infotainment system. There's just a lot of issues
encountered ensuring that the new battery was super safe. This was quite hard (technical
difficulty). So, it's a quite a bit of part of development to ensure that the battery of the new S and
X is safe.
And we're trying to get all the (technical difficulty) in the car slowly for the past few months, but
we're just stacking them up in the yard and just making refinements to the cars that we've
booked. But we do expect to ramp Model S production and start delivering them probably next
month. So -- and then to be sort of fairly high volume production for BS in Q3, and such and
delivering Model X in Q3 as well.So, I think as we ramp up, I think probably the demand for the new S/X will be quite high. So,
should there be a question ramping supply chain and internal production processes. So, probably
we're like -- we're going to aim to produce over 2000 S/X per week, perhaps, if we get lucky
upwards of 2,400 or 2,500. This again is contingent on global supply chain issues, which just, a lot
of factors outside of our control. Here. But I do think these things will get solved, it's just a matter
of time and then we'll be doing well of over 2,000 S/X per week. It's a great car. But actually it
costs us less to produce, a little bit less to produce, but it is a superior product.
So I mean conclusion there is a lot to be excited about in 2021 and 2022, we're building factories
as quickly as quickly as we can, both Texas and Berlin are progressing well. And we expect to
have initial limited production from those factories this year, and volume production from Texas
and Berlin next year. We are continuing to ramp production of Model Y Fremont and Shanghai. In
the background, we're continuing work -- development work on the Semi-Cybertruck, the
Roadster, and other products.
Thanks to everyone at Tesla, who made us here a huge success. Now on to questions.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. We have some remarks from `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer as well.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Martin. Thanks, Elon. So congratulations to the Tesla team on breaking multiple
records in the first quarter of '21 as Elon had mentioned, which is typically the most difficult of the
year for many reasons. To summarize the quarter, I think it's best understood by three key items.
First, we successfully launched and began the ramp of Model Y in Shanghai, achieving positive
growth margin in the first quarter of production and receiving a great reception from the market.
Second, as Elon mentioned, although we began the production process for the Model S during
the quarter, we have not yet begun customer deliveries. The reduction in Model S and X
deliveries from Q4 to Q1, were a meaningful headwind to free cash flows and profit generation.
For example, we incurred an estimated $200 million of direct P&L impact relating to this program
in Q1. The majority of which is reflected in COGS and that's before even considering the impact
of lost revenue and profits as a result of the transition. And as he mentioned -- as Elon
mentioned, we expect the first deliveries to begin shortly. Third, as we continue to work through
the instability of the global supply chain, particularly around sending the (inaudible) capacities,
while the Tesla team in partnership with our suppliers do tremendous work keeping our factories
running.
We did experience high expedite costs in the quarter and they were also higher than they were in
Q4 with some minor interruptions to production over the course of the quarter. But we believe
that this landscape is improving, but it does remain difficult and it's an evolving situation. If we
double click within net income, auto gross margin excluding credits improved sequentially and
year-over-year. This is in spite of the cost mentioned for S and X and expedites and a reduction in
global ASPs as our cost structure as a company is reducing even faster pace. So, as we look out
over the course of the year, we feel optimistic about our gross margin strength, particularly some
of these headwinds, we're experiencing start to be resolved.On services and other margins, these have recovered and are trending towards profitability,
aided by strength in the used car business, operational improvements in service and additional
service revenue opportunities that help absorb fixed overheads on energy gross margins, these
remains negative for the second quarter, this is driven by Solar Roof related ramp costs and
winter seasonality in the lease PPA business. We continue to manage through a multi-quarter
backlog on Powerwall. We're working as fast as we can to increase production and this will aid in
profitability of this business as those volumes increase.
On operating expenses, these increased for Q1, which is driven by our investments in technology
and growth. In particular for R&D, this includes the structural battery pack and 4680 cells,
investments in the new S and X, and our neural net and silicon investments. On the SG&A side,
we're setting up infrastructure and support for both China and EMEA in anticipation of volume to
come there. And as I said before, our plants show that we remain on track for sustained industry-
leading operating margins. Double-clicking on cash flows, we continue to generate positive free
cash flows and this was despite the significant working capital headwinds from S and X.
Additionally, we are making progress reducing various forms of debt. We also invested $1.5 billion
in Bitcoin during the quarter, then trimmed our position by 10%, which contributed to a small gain
in our Q1 financials.
Taking a step back, we've generated $8 billion in operating cash flows and $4 billion in free cash
flows over the past four quarters. As we look forward, our plans remain unchanged for long-term
growth of 50% annually and we believe we're on track to exceed that this year as we guided to
last quarter. Global demand remains meaningfully higher than production levels and so we're
driving as fast as we can to increase our production rates. As we think about Q2 and Q3, these
quarter should largely be driven by execution on S and X as we've discussed, continued ramp of
Model Y in Shanghai and the associated cost reductions of these programs.
And we expect profitability and cash generation to evolve over the course of the year in line with
those improvements. And then as we get towards the end of the year, our story will pivot
towards the launch and ramp of our newest factories in Austin and Berlin. So there's certainly no
shortage of exciting things for us to work on and look forward to.
Thank you. And we'll open it up for questions.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much and we'll first take retail questions from say website. The first question is
how is Dojo coming along? Could Dojo unlock AWS-like business line for Tesla over the next few
years?
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'll jump in here. So with respect to Dojo --
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Actually -- sorry my phone was on mute.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Oh, go ahead Elon.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `So, yes, basically saying that the -- although like right now people think of Tesla as -- Tesla is a car
company or perhaps an energy company. I think long term people will think of Tesla as much as
and AI robotics company as we are car a company or an energy company.
I think we are developing one of the strongest hardware and software AI teams in the world. So I
mean -- we appear to be able to do things with full self driving that others cannot. So -- and if you
look at the evolution of our technologies we developed -- we develop them in order to solve the
problem of self-driving. So, we can find a powerful enough neural net computer so we designed
and and bought her on. The software out there was really quite primitive for this task and so we
built the team from scratch and have been developing what we think is probably the most
advanced real world AI in the world.
And then just sort of make sense, this is kind of what needs to happen because the road system
is designed for a neural net computer, our brain. Our brain neural net computer. And it's -- the
entire system is designed for vision with neural net computer, which is because it's designed for
eyes and a brain. And so if you have a system which has very good eyes, you can see in all
directions at once, you can see three focal points ahead or forward, but it's never gets tired, it's
never sort of texting, it has redundancy and it's reaction time is superhuman. Then it seems
pretty obvious that such a system would achieve an extremely high level of safety far in excess of
an average person. So that's -- that's what we're doing.
Then Dojo is kind of the training part of that. So -- because we have over a million cars and
perhaps next year we'll have two million cars in active use providing vast amounts of video
training data that then needs to be digested by a very powerful training system. And currently, we
use Tesla training software. So, we develop a lot of training software, a lot of labeling software to
do -- to be able to do, surround video labeling which is quite tricky. This means all eight cameras
simultaneously at 36 frames a second per camera, labeling video over time. There wasn't any
tool that existed for this. So, we developed our own labeling tool.
Then taking it a step further, obviously, the Holy Grail is auto labeling. So, now we're getting quite
good at auto labeling where we do -- the trainers train the training system and then the system
auto labels the data and then the human labelers just need to look at the labeling to confirm that
it is correct and perhaps make edits. And then every time an editor's make, that further trains the
system. So, it's kind of like a flywheel that's just spinning up and really the only way to do this with
vast amounts of video data. So, then we need to train this efficiently. So Dojo is really a -- it is a
supercomputer optimized for neural net training. We think Sergio will be probably an order of
magnitude more efficient on the say -- I 'm not sure the exact right metric is, but it's a per frame
of video.
We think it will be an order of magnitude more cost efficient in hardware and in energy usage for
frame of video compared to a GPU-based solution or compared to the next best solution that
we're aware. So, then possibly that could be used by others. It does seem as though over time, I
mean, just an observation -- I think it is the fact that neural net based computing or AI-based
computing is a more and more of the compute stack. Conventional computing is perhaps
heuristics based computing is -- so going to be important -- so going very important that it will
become -- neural net will become a big and bigger portion of compute. So, all right, that's a long
story, but I think probably (inaudible) want to use it to and will make it available.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. Let's go through the second question from retail investors. The recent
price changes on Solar Roof have been discouraging for customers and investors. Could just liketo share more about Solar Roof challenges and if the outlook has changed at all i.e., 1,000 roofs
per week?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeahm first, I should say that the demand for the Solar Roof remains strong. So, despite raising
the price, the demand is so significantly in excess of our ability to -- to meet the demand to install
the Solar Froofs. So production is going fine, but we are chocked at the installation point. We did
find that we've basically made some significant mistakes in assessing the difficulty of certain
roofs, but the complexity of roofs varies dramatically.
Some roofs are to be literally two or three times easier than other roofs. So you just can't have a
one size fits all situation. If a roof has lateral protuberances of if the roof sort of the core structure
of the roof is rotted out or is not strong enough to hold the Solar Roof, the the cost can be
double, sometimes three times what we -- what our initial quotes were.
So in those cases what we obviously have to do is to refund customers their deposit and -- what
we cannot do is go and just lose an absolute amount of money, we just got to provide a refund
of the deposit, But that's what is I think most important about the solar situation, which I treated
about past week is that we are shifting the whole -- the whole sort of solar situation. So the solar
Powerwall basically solar plus battery situation to -- there is only one product basically or there's
only one -- one configuration, every house -- we will not sell a house solar without a Powerwall.
That's solar could either be solar retrofit -- what's conventional panels put on a roof or it can be
the Tesla Solar Glass Roof. But in all cases, it will have the Powerwall tool technically, but this is
actually Powerwall 2 plus if you will. And the plus opposed to a higher peak power capability. So,
basically all Powerwall has made since roughly in November of last year, have a lot more peak
power capability than the specification on the website. It's never about twice -- the power
capability roughly. it's not how you count power, but if not twice the peak power and about
arguably twice the steady state power of the specification of the website.
The energy is same, but the power is roughly double. And old installations -- so old installations
will have the Powerwall and the the difficulty installation will dramatically include -- the difficulty of
the installation will be -- will be much less, it will be much easier because the the power from this
from the Solar Roof -- Solar Glass Roof or the the solar panels will only ever go so directly into the
Powerwall. And the Powerwall will only ever go between the utility mains -- between the utility and
the the main power panel of house, which means you never need to touch the main circuit
breakers of the house. You have never need to touch the house circuit breakers.
Effectively almost every house therefore, looks the same electrically. Instead of being a unique
work of art and requiring exceptional ability to rewire the main panel. So this is extremely
important for scalability, it is the only way to do it really. And this also means that every solar
parallel installation that the house or whatever the case may be will be its own utility. And so even
if all lights go off in the neighborhood, you will still have power. So that gives people energy
security. And we can also in working with the utilities use the Powerwall to stabilize the overall grid.
So let's say if there is a, blackout that was in Texas, there was a peak power demand and the
peak power demand because the grid lacked the ability to buffer the power. They had to shut
down power. There is no power storage -- no good point power source. However, with how much
of Powerwall and houses, we can actually buffer the power.
So if the grid needs more power, we can actually with the consent obviously of the homeowner
and partnership with utility, we can then actually release power onto the grid to take care of peakprofound. I'm not sure how if you will actually understand this, but this is extremely profound and
necessary, because we are headed towards a world where as we just talked about earlier, where
people are moving towards electric vehicles. This will mean that the power needs in -- at homes
and businesses will increase significantly. We will -- they will need to be a bunch of wallet coming
somewhere. In fact, if you go for full renewable electricity, we need about 3 times as much
electricity as we currently have.
So these are rough numbers, but roughly need twice -- roughly twice as much electricity if the
transport goes electric and then you need 3 times as much electricity or heating goes electric. So
basically this is a prosperous future, both for Tesla and for the utilities because -- and in fact, I
guess this will be very -- if this is not done utilities will fail to serve their customers, they won't be
able to do it. They won't be able to wrap faster. And we're going to see a more and more of
what we see in California and Texas, of people seeing brown outs and blackouts and you saw not
being able to respond, because -- because there is a massive change going on with the transition
to electric transport and we're seeing more extreme weather events. This is the rest of
(inaudible) you put asset. So it is very important to have solar and batteries at the local level of
the house.
In addition, it is important to have large battery storage at the utility level. So that solar and wind,
which is the main forms of renewable electricity can be -- that electricity can be storage because
sometimes the wind doesn't blow and I was lot, sometimes worse too much, sometimes no well
enough, but if you have a battery, you can stores the energy and provide the energy to the grid
as needed. The same goes for Solar because obviously the Sun does not shine at night and
sometimes it is very cloudy. And so by having battery storage paired with solar and wind, this is
the long-term solution to a sustainable energy future. And as I said, specifically as we talk both at
the local level and at the utility level. If it doesn't currently at local level what will actually be
required is a massive increase in power lines and power plants. So I have to put long distance and
local power lines all over the place. They will have to increase the size of the substations. It's a
nightmare. This must occur -- there must be solar plus battery, it's the only way. So yes.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And the next retail question is (inaudible). Can you tell us anything about
Tesla's future plans in digital currency space or when any such major developments might be
revealed?
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Martin. So, as I noted in our opening remarks and we've announced previously. So
Tesla invest $1.5 billion into Bitcoin in Q1 and then we subsequently sold a 10% stake in that. We
also allow customers to make the vehicle deposits and final vehicle purchases using Bitcoin and
so where our bitcoin story began, maybe just to share a little of the context here, Elon and I were
looking for a place to store cash that wasn't being immediately used, trying to get some level of
return on this, but also preserve liquidity. You know particularly as we look forward to the launch of
Austin and Berlin and uncertainty that's happening with semiconductors and port capacity being
able to access our cash very quickly super important to us, right now. And there aren't many
traditional opportunities to do this or at least that we found and in talking to others that we could
get good feedback on particularly with yields beings so low and without taking on additional risk
or sacrificing liquidity.
And Bitcoin seemed at the time and so far has proven to be a good decision, a good place to
place some of our cash that's not immediately being used for daily operations or maybe notpoints that I want to make about our experiences in the digital currency space is that there is a lot
of reason to be optimistic here. We're certainly watching it very closely at Tesla and watching how
the market develops, listening to what our customers are saying, but thinking about it from a
corporate treasury perspective. We've been quite pleased with how much liquidity there is in in
the Bitcoin market. So our ability to build our first position happened very quickly, when we did the
sale later in March, we also were able to execute on that very quickly. And so as we think about
kind of global liquidity for the business in risk management, being able to get cash in and out of
the markets is something that I think is exceptionally important for us.
So we do believe long term in the value of Bitcoin. So it is our intent to hold what we have long-
term and continue to accumulate Bitcoin from transactions from our customers as they purchase
vehicles. You know specifically with respect to things we may do are things that we're constantly
discussing. We're not planning to make any announcements here and we're watching this space
closely. So when we're ready to make an announcement on this front, if there is one to come,
we'll certainly let you all know.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the fourth question from retail investors says, does Tesla have any proactive
plans to tackle mainstream media's imminent, massive and deceptive click-based headline
campaigns on safety of autopilot or FSD, perhaps specialty PR job of some sort?
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I'll take this one guys. From the safety side, I continue to say --
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Yes.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Go ahead Elon.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Please go ahead. It's I think such worth just going through the effects of the -- what I mean
specifically, there were -- there was an article regarding a tragedy where there was high speed
accident in Tesla and there was really just extremely deceptive media practices, where it was
claimed to be autopilot, but this is completely false and those journalists should be ashamed of
themselves. Please go ahead Zachs.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thanks Elon. So I was just saying, we're committed to safety in all our designs and that's
number one in what we do here. Regarding the crash in Houston specifically, we work directly with
the local authorities NTSB or wherever applicable and whenever they reach out to us for help
directly on the engineering level and whatever else we can support. In that vein, we did a study
with them over the past week to understand what happened in that particular crash and what
we've learned from that effort was it auto steer did not could not engage on the road condition
that as it was designed our Adaptive cruise control only engage on the driver was buckled in
about 5 miles per hour.And it only accelerated to 30 miles per hour with the distance before the car crashed, as well
adapted infusions control does engage the car slowly to complete to stop when the driver's seat
belt was unbuckled. Through further investigation of the vehicle and accident remains, we
inspected the NTSB and the local police and we're able to find that the steering was indeed
deformed, so there was -- we need to likelihood that someone was in the driver seat at the time
of the crash and all seatbelts post-crash were found to be unbuckled. We were unable to recover
the data -- from the date the SD card at the time of impact with the local authorities are working
on doing that and we await their report. As I said, we continue to hold safety in a high regard and
look to improve our products in the future through this kind of data and other information from
the field.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question from institutional investors. The first
question proponents of alternative grid storage technologies claimed that lithium-ion is unsuited
for long-term storage at scale due to Vampire drain. Could 4680 cells address this limitation? Is
the limitations even valid for charging of the energy equation?
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, let me jump in on the Vampire drain. That's definitely not the issue, good lithium-ion cell
self discharges less than 0.001% of its energy per day. The vampire drain is -- maybe not --
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
As mythical as Vampires.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, yeah, I think, I think the challenge with seasonal storages is your value proposition drops
from hundreds of useful full cycles per day -- per year to less than maybe 10 or you may be in
less than five cycles per year. So, it's just a different type of technology altogether that would
make sense given that it's more than order of magnitude different use case.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, we got a long way to go before we're dealing with seasonal technology issues, but
certainly a way to deal with seasonal technology would be to have wind and solar on the side of
subtly latitudes and then across a variety of longitudes. So essentially let's say in the US for
example, if there was -- I'm not sure understands that you can actually power the entire United
States with just sort of hundred roughly, a 100-mile by 100-mile grid of solar. So, I know people
don't quite understand like how much Solar is needed for the United States. Almost nothing
(technical difficulty) of almost any country in the world. The solar incident is a gigawatt per square
kilometer. This is insane. In fact if you took the clear area -- just the area -- we're seeing for
nuclear power plants, the area that is considered not usable because of nuclear power plants
there. In most cases, if you just put solar there, it would generate more power than in the nuclear
power plant because they typically have a pretty wide clear areas. So, it really -- so if you have say
25% efficient solar panels and then those are 80% efficient in how they're laid out, you're going
to do about 200 megawatts per square-kilometer.
Therefore, (inaudible) kilometers is gigawatt, which might be a typical sort of power plant, it really
not much area at all. And a lot of places can have wind and solar in same place. So -- anyway it is
entirely possible to power all of it with a small percentage of earth's area. And then to transferthat power through high-voltage DC lines with no new technology. No, no -- you don't need like
room temperature superconductors, this is also another myth. Roof temperature
superconductors are almost irrelevant in my opinion. Low-cost long distance power lines using
copper or aluminum or that's very important. So, heating is I squared R. So, that's current square
two times resistance. So as you increase voltage, you can drop the current dramatically and drop
the heating dramatically to a point where it is of minor relevance, but maybe you lose 5% to 7%
with a high-voltage DC power, something like that.
So, I wanted to clear no (Technical Difficulty) is necessary, we just need to scale this thing up. The
technology exists today to solve renewable energy. And some of you will say, well, why do we do,
that's because the energy basis of the Earth is gigantic, super mega insanely gigantic. So, you
can't just go and do a zillion terawatts overnight. You've got to build the production capacity for
the cells, for the battery cells, for solar cells, you've got to put that into vehicles, you got to put
them into stationary storage pads, you got for them for solar panels and Solar Glass Roofs and
you got to deploy all the stuff. But we it is certainly the case that we can accelerate this and we
should try to accelerate it and the right thing to do I think from an economic standpoint, I think
most economist would agree is to have a carbon tax, just as we have a tax on cigarettes and
alcohol, which we think are more likely to be bad than good we intend to tax fruit and vegetables
less. The same should be true. We should tax energy that we think is probably bad and support
energy which we think is probably good, just like cigarettes and alcohol versus fruits and
vegetables. It is just cognizant. And -- on the plus side, I must just anyone being complacent, but
sustainable energy, renewable energy will be sold, it is being sold, but it matters, how fast we
solve it and if we solve it faster, that's better for the world.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
There is no question in my mind whatsoever that the energy storage problem will be solved with
lithium-ion batteries, zero. I want to be clear, zero. I think the bias will tend to be towards ion-
based lithium ion cells. So (inaudible) look you still might think look it much be a big (inaudible) of
the cells, it's more like 1% to 2% of the cell is lithium. But the main part of the cell is the cathode,
the main math and cost in the cell is the cathode. For high energy cells, like for example what we
use in most cathodes have nickel-based lithium-ion cells, which have higher energy that's the
longer-range iron-based cells. However, stationary storage, the energy density is not as
important, it's just sticking [ph] to the ground and so I think the vast majority of stationary storage
will be iron-based lithium-ion cells with an iron cap -- iron phosphate cathode technically. But only
the phosphate part is not necessary so i the iron or nickel. I'm misreading [ph] the terminology.
Just to think it was iron or nickel and this is an insane amount of iron in the world, more iron than
we've possibly use and it's also more lithium than we could possibly use. Basically there is no
shortage of anything whatsoever in iron plus lithium cells.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question from institutional investors, which is you've
suggested that between a 5x to 10x improvement is achievable in the automotive production
versus the first Model 3 free line, on the first principles physics analysis, where does Berlin sit
relative to that limit?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `I think we'll, so we're still -- we're still quite far away from it. I mean, the thing to bear in mind with
production is for those who have not never done production, they just don't understand how
insanely hard production is. I want to be very, very emphatic here, prototypes are trivial. They're
child's play. Production is hard, it is very hard. Now you say production at very large scale with
higher reliability and low cost is insanely difficult. But what has been achieved on the automotive
side was not to create an electric car. The truly profound thing on the car side is that Tesla was
the first American car company to achieve volume production of a car in 100 years and not go
bankrupt. So this is -- this -- basically myself and many others at Tesla has to basically have several
aneurysms to get this done. It was so hard to no idea.
So anyway -- and the thing about making a large complex maintenance object is -- let's say you
have trust order approximation 10,000 unique items, even one of those items is slow, let's
actuate, just one. It does not matter how so trivial. We've had production -- production stopped
because of carpet in the trunk. We have production stopped because of a USB cable. At one
point for Model S, we literally raided every electronics storage in the Bay Area for a few days
there nobody could buy a USB cable in the Bay Area because we were to (inaudible) put them in
the car, literally. And there's like hundreds of stories like that. So anyway, that's solving that --
those constraints and logistics problem that makes World War II look trivial. I'm not kidding. Look
the scale is insane. We talking millions of cars, so put massive global supply chain, 50 countries,
dozens of regulatory regimes, it's the same. So yeah.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. And last question from institutional investor is Master Plan Part 2 talks about urban
transport vehicle that is smaller than traditional bus, with greater aerial density achieved by
removing the central aisle. Do you have any updates to share on this goal?
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
No this time.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you very much. So let's move to analyst Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. First question is from `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street with New Street Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street `
Hi guys, thanks so much for taking my question. I'd love to get back to you an update on what you
presented on the Battery Day. In the last six, seven months, I want -- I was wondering how much
progress you've made on that front, first, in terms of process development. So how are things
coming together on your pilot line? Are you getting to the kind of products you throughput you
are aiming for? And second, actually on your production ramp. So I was wondering in which sites
you're ramping production capacity faster with 4680 cell and where you stand on ramping up that
capacity as well? And I have a quick follow-up on energy as well.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Well, so we have -- add to this, but we have the small solar powered plants, which is still
(inaudible) expected to have like a 10 gigawatt hour per year capability in Fremont, California. And
we're (inaudible) we think the cells are reliable enough to be shipped in cars, but we're getting
close to that point. And then we've already ordered most of the equipment for battery
production in Poland and then much for Austin as well. So we really don't like the nitty-gritty
elements, but overall, I think this is quite optimistic about this achieving volume production of the
4680 next year.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks Elon. Just one thing I would add is, there's been a lot of questions about yields.
Actually that is people asking about that and you know, the yield progress has been really strong
every day, but we were really still in commissioning phase to the tools to the point we're
confident that the yield trajectory aligns with our internal cost projections. We did talk about yield
also a better. It is one of the reasons why it's useful to check in on that. It takes a while as Elon just
mentioned to go from prototypes to production and it's not just parts, it's processes it's
equipment, but as we've matured those process -- the process equipment we've gotten to
where we need to be on the yield side.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And basically, this is just a guess because we don't know for sure, but it appears as though
we are above 12 -- probably not more than 18 months away from volume production of 4680.
Now at the same time, we are actually trying to have our cell supply partners ramp up their supply
as much as possible. So this is not something that is to the exclusion of suppliers, it is in
conjunction with suppliers. So yes, we -- we want to be super clear about that. It's not about
replacing suppliers, it is about supplementing suppliers. So we have a very strong partnership
with with JBL, with Panasonic and LG. And we would -- our request to our the strategic partners
for cells supply is, please make -- please supply as much as you possible can, provided the prices
are affordable, we will buy everything that they can make.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, yes, yes and specific to that we're on track to more than double that supplier capacity over
the next (inaudible).
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we exactly -- we do expect from suppliers going to perceive double upward next year
versus this year.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street `
Okay. And I had a quick follow-up on maybe Zach for you on your energy business. So I
understand, like when I get you gross margin with Solar Roof ramp, but I was wondering, you
know what do gross margin mix like there? When you look at the storage business and where are
you -- what's your ambition in terms of gross margin in the -- in that business? I guess going to
grow -- to grow in the mix in the coming years? So excited the bottom for long-term modeling?Yeah, we're seeing a lot of -- I think for comparable margins in storage as in vehicle, but bear in
mind that vehicle is more mature than the storage. So we already are at good margins with the
Powerwall, but some additional work is needed to put the megapack to achieve good margins.
Operator
Thank you.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah -- sorry just jumping, absolutely agree Powerwall is mature. We've been producing
Powerwall too for three years now and we're at good margins there, but Megapack has more
than we got to achieve our target.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street `
But we have a -- we have a clear runway for improving the customer, the megawatt hours of the
megapack.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely, yes we do.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question please.
Operator
From `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody. I was hoping maybe just first you could talk a little bit about how you're thinking
about the rollout of version 9 of FSD and the transition to subscription model? It sounds like some
of this is about to rollout next month. I'm not sure if that's a subscription model, but maybe you
could just spend a little time talking about how impactful you expect that to be?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
So you're going again?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, we're working on getting FSD subscription out and there is a couple of internal technical
dependencies, but from a business model perspective that's aligned and we're hoping to roll
that out soon. The key thing that I say here, there is a lot of potential for recurring revenue based
on FSD subscription. The -- if you look at the size of our fleet and you look at the number of
customers who did not purchase FSD upfront or on a lease and maybe want to experiment with
FSD. This is a great option for them. One of the things we'll need to keep an eye on is a potential
transition from cash purchases of FSD subscription over to cash purchases of FSD who may move
over to FSD subscription. And so there could be a period of time in which, no cash reduces in the
near term and then as the portfolio, subscription customers build up. Then that becomes a pretty
strong business for us over time. But we're hoping to get this launch pretty soon and see what
the responses to it.Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. Great. And I was hoping, Zach, maybe you can just talk a little bit about OpEx. It was that
noticable increase even excluding SBC, obviously a lot going on this quarter. But can you maybe
just talk a little bit about how we should be thinking about that going forward?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. On the R&D side, what we're seeing, as I mentioned in my opening remarks is kind of a
convergence of the series of programs that are happening. In our R&D OpEx spend, correlates to
where we are in the product lifecycle and different programs. And so, we're kind of at the tail end
of investments in what we call, internally palladium, which is the new Model S and Model X.
And so we expect that to decrease over time, but it was high in Q1 for a lot of the reasons that
Elon has mentioned. We're also getting very heavy into 4680 development that Giga and team
are working on in the associated structural battery pack that goes along with that.
And so these are new technologies not only new to Tesla, but new to the industry. So, we're
investing heavily there in an R&D side to work out those things. And spend along in those areas,
should continue over time as we continue to work through the development cycle of those.
And then I also mentioned Elon talked a bit about Dojo and the potential there, so from neural
net investments and Custom Silicon investments, these continue to be areas that we spend on
and make investments in. On the SG&A side, the business is pivoting very quickly to be global
and China is ramping quite quickly and we're trying to make sure that we are staying ahead of the
volume.
So that we have the right sales capacity, store capacity there, local investments in IT and others to
manage the growth. Such that, as the growth comes, the execution challenges are smaller than
maybe in similar periods of growth that we've seen in the past. And so we're making investments
there ahead of the growth. In overall as we look at OpEx as a percentage of revenue over the
course of the year. We do expect to see a substantial drop from 2020 to 2021 as the volumes in
the latter part of the year pickup.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
From `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hi, good evening. Thanks. Two questions. One is on COGS, I think we've gotten from Battery Day
a pretty good feel about the potential for COGS reduction related to Powertrain. But I'd like to
get a sense of the path to reducing COGS X Powertrain. Is it still need a meaningful reduction on
that front to make the math work on $25,000 vehicle? So, what levers do you have to reducing
your cost X Powertrain is just more scale better supplier pricing? Or is it just based on ongoing
cost reduction?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Sure. I mean I think it will be about. Yeah, I mean on the vehicle side, there is plenty of opportunity
as well. Obviously building a car like a Model X. It's quite complex and has various moving parts
Model 3 and Model Y were steps of improvement in that, but when you look at some of the
other advancements that we're including in the Model Y factories into Austin and Berlin, we
reduced the body (inaudible) as much as 60% in the park cost money.
So we continue to find optimizations there as well as we get economies of scale. When we start
to talk about the volumes are considering worldwide with four factories building the same vehicle.
So, both of those things on the vehicle side will improve our COGS as well in the Powertrain
continues to be integrated into that.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great. And then just related as we see Berlin and Austin ramp. But I'd like to just get a sense on
the comparison of Fremont versus the new capacity obviously Fremont non-optimized because
you bought the old NUMMI facility you had to retrofit that's your need, so maybe you can give us
a sense of how your new capacity is going to differ versus Fremont What are the areas that you
have efficiencies, that you previously didn't have, maybe how much does that add up to
improved COGS over time to help you achieve that $25,000 vehicle?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think we had already talk too much about future product development. Earnings call is not
the right place for it's like make major part announcement. So, yeah, we'll get there. We'll provide
it later.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, this is all the time we have for today. And thank you
very much for dialing in for listening and we'll speak to you again in about three months. Thank
you.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks everyone.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.