Q2 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to our Telephone
Conference for the Second Quarter Results. With us today are, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the
Board of Management; and `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board, our CFO. For today's telephone conference, we slightly
changed the procedure. First, `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board will take you through our financial results. `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer
will then give you a general business update for the BMW Group. Afterwards, we will have time
for our Q&A session. Nicola, please go ahead.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Thank you Max. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In the second quarter of 2021, as
expected, the BMW Group was able to build on its strong performance of the first three months.
Individual mobility remains in high demand across the globe. The EBIT margin in the automotive
segment for the year to the end of June was 13.0%, and therefore, on a very healthy level.
In a decade of transformation, the BMW Group has taken active and formative role. Sustainable
profitability lays the foundation for us to continue investing in future technologies. That is why
during a strong first half of year, we continued to focus on our performance. The efficiency
measures we launched in recent years are now also bearing fruit. So far, thanks to the hard work
of our staff in purchasing, production and sales, we have been able to make up for all the
challenges in semiconductor supplies. But as a supply bottlenecks drag on, the situation is
becoming more volatile. That is why we anticipate further disruption to production in the second
half of the year and related impact on vehicle sales.
Ladies and Gentlemen, let's start with the financial figures for the group. The recovery from the
economic impact of the coronavirus crisis continued in the first-half of 2021. In the year to the end
of June, group revenues climbed 28.1% to EUR55.36 billion. At EUR 9.74 billion, group earnings
before tax for the first six-months were as expected, significantly higher than the previous year
which had been heavily impacted by the lockdown.
The figure for the second quarter rose to almost EUR6 billion. Reflecting the positive businessfor the second quarter. The revenue and earnings results largely reflect better pricing, positive
effects from our model mix as well as higher sales volumes resulting from increased demand.
Both our new vehicle and our pre-owned cars are proving very popular with our customers right
now.
The significant improvement in our financial results also boosted group earnings. Lower risk
provisioning and higher income from the resale of end of lease vehicles also contributed to the
increase. Having recognized higher provisions last year, in response to the volatile situation
caused by the pandemic, we were now able to release some of this amount. In addition to this,
as already announced in May, positive effects came from the partial release of the provision in
connection with the EU antitrust proceedings of around EUR1 billion as well as from valuation
effects from our pension obligations. However, these positive effects were offset by headwinds
from higher raw material prices.
In recent years, we have implemented long-lasting changes in all areas of the company that are
now paying off. At the same time, we have taken further important steps to reduce complexity.
For instance, new package solutions for our products have, in particular, made the digital
customer experience much simpler and more enjoyable. They are also releasing pressure on the
cost side.
To fully exploit sales potential and improved working capital, we are constantly optimizing our
sales structures and using analysis tools to manage our sales and inventories in an even more
granular way, i.e. by market model or sales channel. In this way, we always have the appropriate
offer. On the production side, as previously announced, we will reduce costs per unit by a quarter
from 2019 levels by 2025. One of the ways we will achieve this is by exploiting potential for
optimization in logistics and capacity utilization as well as through virtual planning processes.
Ladies and gentlemen, further electrification of our vehicle fleet is the focus of our short and
medium term planning. The all-electric BMW iX has been rolling off the production line at our
plant in Dingolfing since July. This will be followed in the Autumn by the all-electric BMW i4 from
our main plant in Munich. At over EUR2.57 billion R&D expenditure for the first six months
remained high. This also includes initial upfront investments for the Neue Klasse as well as
expenditure for further development of our electric drivetrains and visualization of our fleet. As
always, our focus remains on the customer.
The R&D ratio for the first half year according to German Commercial Code was 4.6%. All our
decisions are clearly focused on the main topics of electrification, sustainability and digitalization.
We are using available resources in Intelligent for maximum impact. Capital expenditure is higher
than for the same period last year at just under EUR1.71 billion.
Investment in the launch of the new iX and further development of our electric drivetrains were
key drivers for this. Higher revenues meant the CapEx ratio of 3.1% were slightly lower than the
previous year. In the second half of 2021, capital expenditure is forecast to be higher due to the
number of launches and usual seasonal effects. We expect the ratio for the full-year to be below
our target figure of 5%.
The financial results increased significantly in the first six months. The at-equity results once again
reflects the strong business performance of our Chinese joint venture BBA, whose earnings
contributed -- contribution climbed to EUR1 billion, thanks to the strong customer demand. Of
course, the figure for the previous year had been dampened by pandemic restrictions especially
in the first quarter. The other financial results benefited from valuation effects for interest rate
derivatives in connection with higher interest rates in the US.The results from investments also shown further positive valuation effects from the i Ventures
fund and SGL Carbon shares. Even now digital services have benefited from the Europe wide
easing of pandemic restrictions in recent months, demand has risen significantly. FreeNow, ride-
hailing for example achieved 140% growth in taxi and shorter rides. SHARE NOW also
experienced a strong upswing in car sharing. Long-term rents increased by 41% in the first half of
2021 compared to the previous year.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now take a look at the individual segment starting with the
automotive segment. Strong demand in the international automotive market was reflected in
significantly higher revenues which reached EUR47.75 billion for the year to the end of June.
Revenues for the second quarter totaled EUR24.98 billion. All regions of the world saw positive
development, especially China and the U.S.
The upper waiting result EBIT reached a new all-time high of EUR 6.19 billion for first half year. The
figure for the second quarter rose to EUR3.95 billion as well as releasing some of the provisions
for the EU antitrust proceedings as I already mentioned, lower employee numbers, better pricing
and an exceptionally good situation for visual value development also had a positive effect.
Higher raw material prices including a sharp increase in rhodium and palladium costs dampened
earnings development however. Against this background, the EBIT margin was 13.0% for the year
to the end of June, and 15.8% for the second quarter. The uncertainty over supply chains and
additional raw material headwinds remained high. As a result, earnings momentum is expected to
weaken in the second half of the year. The segment's financial results for the second quarter
benefited from the strong earnings contribution of almost EUR500 million from our Chinese joint
venture BMW Brilliance Automotive, and positive valuation effects from equity investments.
Let's take a look at free cash flow in the automotive segment. We are taking advantage of the
current situation to systematically optimize our working capital. We are on the right track. Free
cash flow in the automotive segment totaled EUR4.9 billion at the end of June. Good working
capital management related to lower inventories due to the semiconductor situation, and in
particular, higher earnings are the driver for this. As is usual, payments for investments will
increase towards year end.
Additionally, earnings momentum will be dampened by the supply bottlenecks I referred to. In the
second half of the year, we also anticipate cash outflows for personal restructuring measures. Tax
prepayments will also use. We are aiming for our free cash flow at year end above our previous
record of EUR5.8 billion.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the financial services segment which also benefited from
global sales growth and a positive situation in the second quarter and delivered a strong financial
performance. The total of 1.03 million new financing and leasing contracts were concluded with
retail customers in the first half of 2021, an increase of 28% year-on-year. The total portfolio of
5.6 million retail contracts was at the same level as at the start of the year. The very positive
development in pre-owned car markets, I already mentioned, also continued in the second
quarter, especially in the U.S. and UK. This resulted in high income from the sale of end of lease
vehicles. Credit losses remained at a low level.
In the first half of the year, segment earnings before tax increased to EUR1.94 billion. The figure
for the second quarter was EUR1.15 billion. The prior year quarter had been dominated by
uncertainty due to the coronavirus pandemic with additional risk provisioning for anticipated credit
and residual value risks. The motorcycle segment also performed well in the second quarter with
eight new models introduced by the end of June. Thanks to this strong product offering, we wereable to grow sales to 107,000 units in the first half of the year, a new all-time high for this period.
The segment operating earnings grows in line with the positive business development in the year
to the end of June to EUR284 million. The figure for the second quarter was EUR149 million. The
EBIT margin for the first half of the year was 17.5%.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look now at our guidance for the current year. The BMW
Group continues to focus on profitable, sustainable growth. After a strong first half year, we
generally expect the positive business development to continue in the second half of 2021. Our
guidance assumes that political and economic conditions will not deteriorate significantly. It also
does not take into account of the possible further impact of the coronavirus pandemic.
For the full year, based on our current assessment, we expect the key financial and non-financial
performance indicators to develop as follows. We anticipate a significant increase in group pre-
tax earnings for the full year. Thanks to ongoing personal restructuring measures, we intend to
achieve our goals with a slightly lower number of employees than last year. In the automotive
segment, we should see a solid increase in the number of BMW MINI and Rolls-Royce vehicles
delivered to customers.
Electrified vehicles will account for significantly higher percentage of total volumes. We have a
strong market position in China. Demand for cars from our three BMW Group brands remains
high in the U.S. and Europe. However, due to the current uncertainty over semiconductor supplies,
we cannot rule out the possibility of our sales figures being impacted by further production
downtimes. Continued high raw material prices will have a significant impact in the second half of
2021. We also expect to see the usual seasonal increase in fixed costs towards the end of the
year.
For this reason, the EBIT margin is forecast to be at the high end of our target range of 7% to 9%.
We will once again significantly reduce CO2 emissions in our new vehicle fleet. In the financial
services segment, earnings development will benefit more from the improved situation than
originally anticipated both in terms of credit and residual value risks. This is reflected in a higher
return on equity than in our original guidance which we now expect to be within the range of 17%
to 20%.
In the motorcycle segment, we had so far forecast a solid increase in deliveries. Now, due to
positive market development, it looks like we will be able to deliver slightly more motorcycles
than forecast in March. We therefore anticipate a significant increase in deliveries, slightly above
the 10% mark. The EBIT margin will remain within our target range of 8% to 10%.
Ladies and gentlemen, after the first six months of 2021, the BMW Group is on course to meet its
goal for the year. However, the uncertainty surrounding semiconductor supplies makes planning
for the full year difficult. Our vehicle plants have the capacity and the flexibility to meet high
customer demand at all times, but we are dependent on functioning supply chains.
There are, of course, opportunities to be found in every challenging situation. We are taking
advantage of these, and have reacted quickly and systematically in recent months. Activities have
ranged from inventory optimization to sustainable efficiency measures in all areas of the
company. We are maintaining the momentum of the past few months and actively shaping the
transformation of the company. Thank you.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Nicolas, and now `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer. Oliver, please go ahead.`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Good afternoon everyone. The performance of BMW is undisputed as Nicholas Peter told us. We
are on the right track. We are making the right decisions at the right time. The decisions that will
keep our company profitable and successful for long time to come.
Ladies and gentlemen, what is the world most concerned with right now? What is our society
thriving towards? What is the burning issue that unites us all? There can be no doubt that it is
drastically reducing to CO2, and we all share the same goal of effectively combating climate
change. That is where I would like to start today, and from there, I will go on to talk about the
following two other topics, first, how are we further strengthening our digital expertise, and
secondly, where does the BMW Group stand in the financial year 2021.
Let's now start with first point, our road to climate neutrality. The three main regions of the world,
many other countries and even cities all want to become carbon neutral. That is also our mission
and responsibility at the BMW Group. As you know, we've always taken a forward-looking
perspective. It is the foundation of the long-term business model our company is built on. It
requires by definition, that all our decisions are based on sustainable thinking. Our strategic
orientation towards climate neutrality benefits our customers.
At the same time, it also sends a strong signal to all our stakeholders and the capital market
which is increasingly looking to invest in sustainability. And not least, it sends a signal to our teams
and their jobs. The currency that matters in our industry today is how large is the vehicle's carbon
footprint throughout the whole of its lifecycle. The atmosphere, that is the climate doesn't care
whether a manufacturer adopts a best only, best-centric or an open technology strategy. All that
matters for the purposes of climate protection is the actual amount of CO2 emitted. And that
means, across the board.
From raw materials and other materials throughout the industrial manufacturing process and
active use of a vehicle, all the way to recycling the raw materials. Our impression is that it is often
the case with zero emissions that the louder the proclamations, the broader the disclaimer and
general terms and conditions tend to be. Not with us. Already in summer 2020, we unveiled
concrete sustainability goals for 2030 and geared our companies toward them.
We're documenting our progress in a way that is transparent and verifiable for everyone, in our
integrated report and as a member of the science-based targets initiative. Our clearly defined
targets in accordance with the Paris climate agreement put us on a course that is significantly
more ambitious than the two-degree goal. And without the fine print. We are already
concentrating on all three scopes where CO2 is emitted. The supply chain, production and the
use phase.
Our vision is of a value chain that produces less and less CO2 culminating in a circular economy.
Take the brand new BMM iX, for example. Already today, the battery cells are produced with
green power, and we use 20% recycled plastics. And stay tuned, we will be presenting our
circular approach at the IAA Mobility here in Munich. By 2030, we aim to reduce our entire carbon
footprint per vehicle by at least the third from 2019 levels across the entire lifecycle.
Production at all our locations worldwide is already net carbon neutral as of this year. This applies
to all our properties and administrative buildings as well. We will be taking things up a notch in the
near future. The use phase has a particularly strong impact on the carbon footprint, but we could
even imagine higher CO2 reduction targets per vehicle by 2030. Already last year, we over
fulfilled our fleet's target significantly, and we will over fulfill it again this year.The same applies to climate neutrality as everywhere. There are different ways of getting there.
So ruling out certain approaches is not very helpful. None of these are wrong as long as they
benefit climate protection. The approach should always be pragmatic and manageable and never
ideological in the interest of the greater vision the global target of zero emissions. The BMW
Group is a global manufacturer. That is why, we always focus on the big picture, a global
perspective if you like. That doesn't make things any easier or linear. On the contrary, it makes
them extremely multi-faceted, because our world is and will remain diverse, especially when it
comes to people's mobility and the necessary conditions needed to ensure it.
We solve the biggest challenges for the world through innovation and technological progress. To
do this, we use our ability to integrate highly complex technical systems into a product in order to
tailor it optimally to the requirements of certain markets. In this way, we offer markets the right
technology for the individual circumstances and pace of change. We see this as a clear
competitive advantage for BMW, one, we will continue to leverage to gain further market share.
Because going forward, regulations and what customers want, will vary from region to region and
from country to country.
In Europe, for example, new vehicle registrations in Norway and the Netherlands are already
dominated by battery electric drivetrains. While other countries in the United and in the EU don't
even have rudimentary charging infrastructure. In the U.S. likewise, California continues to lead the
way on the e-mobility, but demand for vehicles with combustion engines remains strong in many
other states.
In Asia, countries like Japan and Korea has the potential for fuel cell drivetrains, and China is
driving the pace on e-mobility. E-fuels could also be an option for certain regions. Going forward,
hydrogen technology will become more important alongside electric power and not as often
rumored just for utility vehicles. This is another area where we are delivering. Our small series of
the BMW i Hydrogen NEXT will be released next year. We often asked, whether the BMW Group
has a date for its full transition to pure electric drivetrains.
The answer to put it clearly and precisely is, we are 100% committed to best, wherever the use
of battery electric drivetrains make sense and it is possible because the conditions are right. Our
MINI brand is the best proof of this. From the early 2030s, it will be our first electric brand without
any disclaimers. Because MINI fans are mainly active in urban spaces. This is the exact same
direction targeted by the new electric scooter from BMW Motorrad. Our CE 04 is the perfect
companion for the urban commuter.
We recently unveiled the production model which we will begin delivering early next year. All of
this underlines that achieving market penetration with e-mobility hasn't been a vehicle supply
issue for quite a while now. It depends to a greater degree on how quickly charging infrastructure
is being expanded. We have been committed to this for a long time. We've already installed
more than 15,000 charging points worldwide. In Germany alone, we operate one of the biggest
company charging networks in conjunction with E.ON. We currently have a total of 4,350 charging
points in service and by the end of the year, it will be over 5,000.
All of them run on green power and some are open to the public. We will provide an update on
our progress in the Autumn as part of a IONITY's European high power charging network. IONITY
is open to anyone who wants to join. Expansion is important to us. We must not only allow
charging infrastructure to be the bottleneck that decides where the customer is buying electric
vehicle or not. As the current ACEA President, I'm fighting for this. So we can move faster in all 27
EU member states.We need a stronger commitment to this. With a Fit for 55 package it unveiled in July, the
European commission has once again tightened its reduction targets for CO2 emissions. Every
additional percentage point the targets are tightened, means we need at least 200,000 more
public charging points in addition to the 3 million already needed by 2030. Companies are now
expected to reduce CO2 emissions from their new vehicle fleet by 55% from current levels by
2030.
That is the commission's proposal which forms the starting point for the legislative process, and
will be finalized from today's point of view by end of 2022. It is equivalent to tightening the target
by around 18% from the previous targets of minus 37.5%. And as you would expect from BMW,
we are taking a reliable and consistent approach to this additional challenge. By 2023, we will
offer our customers at least one purely electric BEV option in nearly all of our vehicle segments.
Over the next 10 years, the BMW Group aims to release a total of about 10 million fully electric
vehicles onto the market. For the target up to 2035, a review by the Commission in 2028 will
determine whether the credit should be awarded for other zero emission technologies such as e-
fuels in addition to BEVs and fuel cell electric vehicles.
In 2025, just four years from now, we will launch the Neue Klasse. This all new product offering is
our response to the highly complex requirements of the coming decades. In many respects, the
Neue Klasse is a real quantum leap for future model generation till it hits technologies,
corporations and our mindset across the BMW Group. Our new vehicle architecture is
uncompromisingly electric-only whether with battery power or hydrogen. It also comes with an
entirely new IT and software architecture as well as a new developed high performance electric
drivetrain and battery generation. Systems integration is another one of the BMW Group's core
competencies that we will be demonstrating in the Neue Klasse. For me, all of this underlines our
forward-looking approach.
This brings me to my second topic. We are further strengthening our digital expertise. In today's
cars, software, hardware, and services work together in an integral way. This is how we are laying
the technological foundation that will enable us to offer our customers new functions on an
ongoing basis. Our vehicles are always up-to-date with the very latest technologies. For the past
few years, we have been able to update every single line of code in the vehicle over the air via
remote software upgrades. And this, since 2018.
There are only two firms capable of doing this. One of them is in California, the other one is in
Munich. By the end of this year, the BMW Group will have over 2.5 million vehicles with upgrade
capabilities on the roads. The largest fleet of this kind worldwide. Our new generation BMW
iDrive leads the interaction between driver and vehicle into the digital future, and we lay the
foundation for this with the new BMW operating system 8. A new generation of displays, controls
and software as well as extremely powerful data processing designed for 5G.
We are introducing it for the first time in the BMW iX, and subsequently rolling it out broadly
across all other models. And we also integrating the digital service for navigation, parking and
charging into the BMW Maps cloud-based system. With the iX, customers also have the flexibility
to book functions on demand at any time. For the digital ecosystem in the vehicle as well as
digitalized production and digitalized processes across the company, we're building up the
necessary skills and competencies.
Here, we are concentrating on specific areas. For example, smart production and logistics,
including robotics, Big Data and data analysis, software architecture and HR softwaredevelopment, artificial intelligence and autonomous driving, and e-mobility as well as innovative
drive and lightweight technologies.
At the BMW Group, around 10,000 employees are working in the IT in software development. In
the last two years alone, we have brought in 2,400 new experts in our R&D division. Our 14 tech
officers span the world from California to the new fitting in the north of Munich to Shanghai and
Tokyo. In addition, we have joint ventures such as Critical TechWorks in Portugal. When it comes to
in-car IT applications, in particular, customers in different regions of the world specifically in China,
Europe and the United States of America use different services and providers, that is the diverse
market I mentioned earlier. For every region, we provide seamless integration of third-party
services such as Apple, Google, Tencent or Spotify.
Let's wrap up now with my third point. To sum up in just a few words, yes, we had a strong first
half of the year. Our broad range of fresh new models and various drive technologies met with
lively demand. This applies to all of our brands, BMW, MINI, Rolls-Royce, as well as to the M --
BMW Motorrad and all regions of the world. Around 1.34 million vehicles represents growth of
almost 40% compared to the first half of 2020.
Sales for the first six months of the year were the highest in our corporate history. But we all know
that in many regions of the world, the first half of 2020 was hit especially hard by the restrictions
due to the coronavirus pandemic. That is why comparison with the first half of the pre-crisis year
2019 is more meaningful compared to that period our sales increased by 7.1%. In July this year as
well, the month just finished, our figure was again above July 2019.
As expected, our customers are buying significantly more electrified vehicles right now. In the first
half of the year, our sales grew by almost 150%. In our domestic market of Germany, nearly one in
four BMWs and around 30% of MINIs sold already have an electric drivetrain. By the end of the
year, we aim to have a total of 1 million fully electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles on the roads, and
by 2025, 2 million pure electric vehicles.
By then, we aim to deliver 10 times the number BEVs we sold in 2020. The fully electric BMW iX3
has been available since the start of this year. It was not designed specifically for e-mobility,
despite that, it is winning comparative tests with its rivals. The BMW iX and i4 will both be
launched in Autumn. Both are extraordinary basically set offer fantastic driving experience. High
orders for both are already exceeding our expectations.
The planned annual volume of the BMW iX4 for example is already largely sold out in Europe.
This underlines the high level of interest in this technology unique vehicle. We are naturally very
pleased with the positive feedback in the media and on social media. New models will be coming
in rapid succession from hereon. In the next two years, we will launch all electric versions of the
BMW 7 series X1 and 5 series.
Ladies and gentlemen, 2021 is proving to be a unique financial year for us with both tailwind and
headwinds. On 20th May, we re-evaluated our provisions of EUR1.4 billion in connection with
antitrust proceedings by the European commission. The commission completely withdrew its
allegations against the BMW Group. The commission confirmed once again in this connection that
there is and was never any allegation of illegal manipulation of exhaust gas treatment by the
BMW Group.
The proceedings were concluded on July 8th with a settlement and a fine of EUR372.8 million.
The revaluation of the provision has led to a positive earnings effect of around EUR1 billion in the
second quarter of 2021. As a result, our target quarter for the EBIT margin in the automotiveThere are however, on top of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, additional risks for our
ongoing business performance that we take very seriously. Our industry cannot ignore the global
shortage of microchips. So far, compared to other manufacturers, we've been able to absorb the
impact of this as well. A few of our plants have also been affected recently, but with varying
degrees of intensity. We assess the situation on a daily basis, and are taking appropriate
measures with our suppliers.
In addition to semiconductor supply bottleneck, we also faced rising raw material prices. This is
another reason why our circular approach makes a lot of sense. Lastly, extreme weather such as
the devastating floods in Germany, Europe and other parts of the world, show forecasts and
expectations can change fast quite apart from the immense suffering people in the affected
regions are facing.
Confronted with all these risks, the second half year would be more challenging for the BMW
Group than the first. Nevertheless, we are confident that we will achieve our targets for the full
year, and we are convinced, our holistic approach is absolutely effective. The requirements for
the automotive industry are highly complex and there are no simple truth. What counts for climate
protection as well as all the other major future fields is effectiveness, and this is what the BMW
Group stands for. Thank you very much.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much Oliver. Now we start our Q&A session. Please wait for some technical
advice.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Question And Answer
(Operator Instructions) And the first question is from `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane, Exane. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane `
Hi there, I am Dorothee from Exane. And thank you for taking my questions. My first question is
around the speed of electrification. So you'll know that Mercedes has just announced they expect
up to 50% of their sales to be xEVs by 2025. The majority of that will be -- and they've also said,
they will be a 100% EV ready by 2030. Now, I'm wondering whether that is a power train mix you
could deliver too at least in theory from a product perspective, from a capacity perspective, and
also from a supply chain perspective, if we assume for a minute that the demand and the
infrastructure is there to support it.
And then my second question is around the spending you're still making on ICE vehicles. How
much of your current CapEx and cash R&D spending is still going on ICE and how sharply do you
expect that to contract in the coming years? Thank you so much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much Dorothee. So we start with Oliver first. Oliver, please
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `Dorothee, hello. Thank you very much for your question. This question is not unexpected as you
might know, and I think from our perspective, we will exactly follow not only the markets but also
all the political movements we currently see. We have a strong statement from the European
Union. They would like to accelerate it, and we will follow exactly that path.
Meaning, whenever one country or a city or one region is turning towards fully electric, we will
follow. As I said, next year with the introduction of the i7 next year, and in 2023 with 5 Series and
X1, we have product offerings BEVs only not plug-in hybrids, that's only in every single market
segment. That is earlier than any other competitor. In every market segment, we have a purely
electric vehicle. From the very small UKL segment, MINI, all the way up to up to the 7 Series.
So we will be able follow on. What is currently not specifically fast-moving is public infrastructure.
And our take on this is the following. There are three different charging infrastructures. There's
public charging, there's private charging, and there is corporate charging. I think, as I said in my
speech on the corporate charging side, I think we will see the fastest movement. We already
installed -- by end of this year, we will have alone at BMW, more than 5,000 charging units.
And I expect that most of other corporations will follow because there's a big advantage of going
BEVs only with your corporate fleet. So that's not a problem. I think on the highways, and that's
mainly the public charging infrastructure, that will also move quickly. The problem is, the public
charging infrastructure and the corporate charging infrastructure represent only about 20% of the
complete charging infrastructure.
The main charging infrastructure is private, and we currently see the development in that is very
diverse not very transparent and by leaps and bound lagging the amount of vehicles. So we will
match our product offerings very closely in every region of this world. And we will have the ability
to follow by 100% if the regions -- even if that is happening very quickly. To assume that this will
happen 100% everywhere in the world in all our markets in the next 10 years is not an assumption
we share.
So we will follow the markets, we will contribute to climate change in whatever offer we have,
because every product offering is getting better day by day. So that would be -- and one last
word, our Neue Klasse, BEV only architecture from 2025, of course, represent that the market
share during that time starting in 2025, will of course, be higher than in 2021.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. The second part of the question was spending about ICE. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Dorothee, thanks a lot for your question. First of all, we continue to invest in a very significant way
in '21 in research and development. So in theory, ratio should be a plus minus on the same level,
so slightly above 6% in '21. And as you can imagine as we will reduce the number of ICE
drivetrains, ICE powertrains by around 50% till '25. The amount we are spending in this area will
go down significantly and we spent significantly more than 50% of our total R&D spending in the
electrification of our portfolio.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. Thank you very much. Next question, please.
OperatorThe next question is from `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche
Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Oliver, Nicolas and Max for taking my questions. There will be two
please. I guess the first one is for Oliver, and it's something that we already discussed about in
previous calls, but you touched on it again this morning. So I'd like to touch on that again as well.
Your goal of selling a 3 million units.
You said this morning that all your competitors are chasing volume as well, frankly that's not really
what we're hearing. Audi gets rid of the A1, talks about a stronger profitability focus. Daimler
wants to sell less vehicles and make more money. On the mass market side, we have extreme
examples like GM but also -- and Renault now sell less vehicles and rather don't stop their center
channels.
Recently right now, almost every player sells less than they probably would like to, and they are
much more profitable. So the same question that we already discussed in previous calls, why do
you believe it is necessary and desirable to have 3 million volume unit sales when this entire
industry seems to reverse to profit over volume growth. Why do you not target less volume
growth but a higher margin instead?
And then secondly, Nicolas it's probably for you on the guidance, obviously that is something that
investors really dislike about your results today. I get the row mat headwinds, I get the semi stuff
in H2, but taken together, that's maybe 1% to 2% margin headwind you guided for significantly
less in H2 or H1. So what is it that we don't see or what is it that you didn't tell us that's going to
be a headwind in the second half of this year? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much Tim. We start with Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Well Tim, if you look at the market forecast, they all go up. If you look at all market force, there
will be far above 90 million cars. So we will have peak car demand in the world ahead of us, not
behind us. The question is, with what kind of drivetrains and so on, but the world market is
growing. And if you go on a reduction strategy, you will lose market share because if the normal
OEMs would not grow, someone else would grow. So first of all, taking care of that, our product
strategy is aligned towards at 3 million unit. And it's not a target we set ourselves internally which
has to be reached by whatever means.
The ground basis is profitable growth, and we showed in the first half year 2021 that we can grow
and be very profitable. And we will stay exactly on that course, that is not volume or profitability. If
you would not grow in this industry, you will shrink and lose market share. And if you allow that,
everyone can decide for itself. And we can stay profitable with MINI in the smallest segment only
with an very unique product offering. And we are profitable in all segments today, all the way up
to Rolls-Royce and we don't see any need to change that, and we speak to that target and I think
for us, it's exactly right target.
OperatorThank you very much. Oliver, second part of the question, what are the headwinds for the second
half year?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Tim, of course, I was expecting your question and there's probably nothing you do not see and
I'm telling you, of course, I'm telling you everything. And if you reflect on one hand side on the
first half, which undoubtedly was a very strong performance even if you would adjust by the
antitrust provision release and the pension provision release strong performance in the upper
part of our 8% to 10% guidance probably around 9.8%, 9.9%.
Now, what do we see and I know I think I guess you know all those topics, on one hand side, we
have an impact from raw material prices we anticipate at this point in time for the second half of
the year, could it improve in the course of the next week? Of course it can. But as we speak from
today's perspective, we see a risk against the first six months, and the second topic is of course
the semiconductor supply situation. We've been performing extremely well in the first six months
of the year probably better than most of our peers.
And of course, our colleagues in procurement, in production, in sales, we'll do everything to
maintain this strong performance. Having said this, we see some -- we've seen some additional
challenges in the last couple of weeks. When this materialize? let's see. We do everything
advised that this is materializing, and we will see much, much clearer in a couple of weeks from
now. And the third element of course is and this is something you know extremely well, we have a
peak of our overhead costs in the fourth quarter. So those are the three main elements, and of
course, this has to do with ramp-up of R&D spending in the course of the year. Those are the
three topics.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Tom Narayan, RBC, RBC. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tom Narayan, RBC `
Hi. Yes. `Tom Narayan, RBC, RBC. Thanks for taking the question. If I could just follow-up on the last
question, wondering, if there was any demand pull forward from H2 into H1 of higher-margin
vehicles. I guess, that was one element that you didn't call out. And then a follow-up on the
comments on public charging, Renault, I think last week said 80% of the charging on their BEVs
was happening at the home or the office. Curious, if this fears over public charging might be
somewhat overblown. Just love to hear your thoughts on that? And if there's any indication on
data of how people are charging E or B-EVs. Thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Let me start with the second question --
A - Unidentified SpeakerSecond question about charging.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Because, I think I answered it already, is absolutely right that the majority of charging is at home
or at the workplace. Yes, that's exactly our picture and the discussion we have in the companies is
mainly not about these two, it's mainly about public charging.
And we think we have a more close look where 80% of the charging namely in the office or at
home is happening is much more diverse, and we created our own model to reflect the
development of our infrastructure, and currently, we see a big lack, on 80% of the necessary
charging stations. So Renault is exactly saying what we see currently. And the --
A - Unidentified Speaker
First one, Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Yes. Tom, no, not at all. There is luckily an ongoing high demand for in particular for our high-end
models, X5, X7 and 5 series outperforming really very well. Of course, what you will see is an
ramp-up of xEVs in the second half month by month. We improve our xEV performance and this,
of course, unfortunately has some negative impact on our margin on one hand side. But on the
other hand side, is underlying our commitment and our strong performance with electrified cars.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from --, Barclays. Your line is now open.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much for taking my question. The first one is really regarding your margin in H1. If
we look at the underlying number, you just mentioned the 10%. That's at the same time when you
have a record M model sales and record Rolls-Royce sales. Just trying to understand a little bit, at
the same time, you also have residual values that are supporting this margin. What is required to
go beyond that 10%?
And as a second point is really when we look at your guidance again and I'll come back to Tim's
point, you've now delivered 13% in H1 in the auto division. And even if we take the upper end of
your auto margin, the 9%, that would technically sort of imply below 6% maybe even a 5% margin
in second half. At the same time, you said on the press call earlier that the FX and raw mat
headwinds should be at the lower end of the 500 million to billion range.
So can you just clarify a little bit what are the moving parts? And that's also combined with the
point of your provision release. You said, the billion left your guidance or moved your guidance up
by about a 100 basis points. You had this 500 million pension impact as well in the second
quarter, but that didn't have an impact on your guidance. Why is that?
A - Unidentified SpeakerA - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Kai, let me start with your first point. So as you rightly said, on one hand side, 10% is at the top
end of our corridor, and one hand side, you've pointed out the positive elements. But on the
other hand side, as I've mentioned, we see a significant ramp up of xEVs, so electrified cars,
which is -- which are impacting in a negative way our profitability, and we continue as I've stated
to invest, and we believe that's absolutely essential in research and development, not only just in
electrification, but also in digitalization and autonomous driving.
Just to give you an idea, the xEV sales in the second half and that's now already the part of the
answer for your second question will be further 75% up compared to the first half of -- the
second element of course is, what I've indicated, we see some risks in terms of raw material
prices with in terms of semiconductor supply. Will all those risks materialize? Let's see.
As I've stated, we work extremely hard in the consequent manner to avoid those risks. But this is
the actual status and I'm convinced, we will be -- we will see much clearer in a couple of weeks
from now. But first of all, we are extremely pleased to see that our profitability is even if you
adjust by the two items you've mentioned, is in the upper part of our 8% to 10% margin corridor.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Next question, please. Thank you very much Nicolas.
Operator
The next question is from `Jose Asumendi, J.P. Morgan, J. P. Morgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you, Max. Hello, Oliver and Nicolas. Jose, J.P. Morgan, just a couple of questions, Oliver.
Can you comment -- I mean I heard your comments prior this morning around the launch of your
cell pilot line next year. I'll be very interested to hear, you know, how much capacity does this line
have? How much CapEx that is required? And any thoughts around the battery chemistry, I'm fully
onboard with other comments you've made this morning around the state of the battery market
and how you have multiple suppliers fully onboard with those comments?
Would love to hear bit more, how much progress is BMW making there, which I think could be a
differentiating factor going forward? And second, on electric motors, you launched already your
own technology some years ago, maybe Nicolas and Oliver, can you give us some tangible
comments on how is this is [ph] differentiating factor for BMW? How is it helping your profitability,
maybe versus peers as well? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
First one.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much. Later with cell pilot line, capacity, CapEx and [ph] --
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, okay. We start with Oliver, yes and then Nicolas for the second part. Yes.A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Jose, good morning. Thanks to -- good afternoon, thank you for your questions. Let me go
a little bit more into detail what we do there. That market segment of electric vehicles is moving
rapidly, as we assumed for many years now. So our strategy, which we worked out a couple of
years ago has two elements.
First of all, rapid growth and the second is cost reduction. So our fifth generation of batteries now
moves exactly towards that. And the fifth generation has been launched at the beginning of last
year. Now, we move towards the sixth generation with much higher volume, much lower costs.
And the question is, the leverage on the volume size from our point of view only make sense if
you go over various suppliers and not only with one supplier.
There's a big huge market out there with no electric pole or monopole restrictions. So this works
very well for us. We have four large suppliers for the next five years, and they have high flexibility
also on the volume side. And I think much higher flexibility you would ever be able to do by
yourself. And the second thing is, cost reduction, and cost reduction doesn't happens so much by
the normal economies of scale industrialization process. It's much more that you have tight
control of what is inside the cells, what kind of materials do we use?
It's highly complex process with more than 1,500 parameters in a single cell. And I think with that
competence, with our battery research center plus the mentioned pilot line we have, we have the
right competencies. The pilot line will have around the capacity of 10,000 cells per year, so we
could -- we can't produce the cells ourselves and then give them to the suppliers. And it's a part
of the IFK[ph] process which we have sketched out in line with the European commission. That's
our stake here.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much Nicolas for the second part.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Jose if I got your question right, your question was about the xEV performance 2020 versus 2021.
So the plan is to go by approximately 75% in '20 -- in 2021, of course plug-in plus all electric cars
combined we've already seen a significant ramp-up in the first six months. And now with the
launch of the i4 and the iX, we will be optimistic that we continue to perform extremely well.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Nicolas. I think ladies and gentlemen, we have time for some more
question. Please so the next one, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Harald Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Hi guys. It's Harald for Morgan Stanley. Thank you so much for taking my questions. Two
quick questions, please. One, you've mentioned a number of things on the residuals, on the
credit loss reversals, other financials hedge gains and things? Is it possible to give us a little bit
more detail in terms of those numbers, the sustainability of those numbers into the second half,
just to give us a better idea of what the margin extrapolation from the second quarter should be?I think, we all understand, it's not 15%, but is it 10%, 11%, 12%? Maybe you can help us with that a
little bit.
And then secondly, China margin was also very strong. Can you just talk about that a little bit
more? Again the sustainability of the China margin obviously, as we go into '22, that's going to be
a big, big thing for you guys. Was there any exceptional impact or anything in the China margin in
the second quarter? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Oliver, Nicolas, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Harald, of course two extremely relevant topic. I will start with the second one on sustainability of
our China margin and China business. Since April last year and now since April 2020, we see a
very positive development in sales and margin development in China. We are on a very low level
of incentive spending in China what is from our perspective in a sustainable way. Why? Because
we manage supply and demand in what I believe is a very smart and precise manner to manage
this.
So we have no oversupply in our dealerships which is definitely supporting the development and
the sustainability of the margin in China, and the outlook despite the fact that the overall market
was under pressure, the premium market continues to perform very well in China. So we believe
too early to give guidance of '22 but we have no signals at this point in time that this should
weaken in the second half of the --.
On residual value and credit loss provisions, you're absolutely right we continue to be -- we start
with credit loss provisions. We continue to be on very strong, meaning, low level in terms of credit
losses in all our major market, and I believe this has to do with the -- this is not -- it's not
something which happened in the last 15, 18 months. This is a trend which started much earlier,
has to do with the way we manage this business and we have no reason to believe that this is
going to change.
And this is one of the reasons why we've increased the guidance for the full-year for financial
services to 17% to 20%. And residual value development of course is very much driven by used
car market pricing, in particular in the U.S. and UK, and has to do as well with a much better
balance in the whole industry between supply and demand. You can be assured that from our
side, we will do everything to maintain this situation, because it's not only us benefiting from that,
it's also our dealer organizations benefiting from this well balanced approach.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. Thank you very much, Harald. I think we have time for two more additional questions. Next
question comes from --
Operator
The next question is from Josh --, Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Q - Analyst
Yes, thank you for taking my question. So I just found the comments around the roles of the e-
fuel and hydrogen interesting[, given you obviously have concerns around EV infrastructure. Whatis your view on who is going to fund the infrastructure of the e-fuels and hydrogen? And is it
rational to have three technologies and three different infrastructures going forward?
And with respect to this multifaceted and I guess diverse and flexible approach that you're
offering your customers, when I compare your CapEx and R&D ratios today of 10% to 10.5% of
revenues, they are starting to look high versus the latest targets provided by some of your peers.
Do you think your flexible approach is requiring you to invest more than some of the competitors
who are focused purely on battery electric vehicles? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, thank you very much --, so we start with the infrastructure with Oliver and then Nicolas.
Oliver, please go ahead.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Yeah, George, thank you very much for your very good questions. If it would be possible to go
only with one technology, we would do that. But as I said in beginning, the regions in the world
develop very differently. Of course, we are impacted very much about European discussion we
have here, which is very much dominated by the e-infrastructure discussion.
But if you go to Korea or Japan, they have a completely different setup. And that is why I said, we
are a global manufacturer and every one of these drivetrains has its relevance in specific markets,
southern Europe. It lags northern Europe by about 10 years, a complete decade, inside of Europe.
The Korea and Japan development, they go for other reasons, specifically for hydrogen, because
of the density of population there, it's extremely difficult to build up quickly enough electric
infrastructure, much easier with e-fuels or hydrogen which can be transported to specific
locations.
And I think, if you have a strategy which is not depending everywhere in the world of a specific
state of infrastructure, then this is the right approach. There will be a lot of fields in about 10
years, where there is a demand to drive emission free, but you do not have charging
infrastructure. You can see that already. And that is why hydrogen and or e-fuels are important.
And on the e-fuel side, of course, all the investment's already made.
This is the elongation of our investments on the combustion engine side. So we think as a global
manufacturer, despite the different approaches we have in some of the regions, this is exactly
the right approach. If you wouldn't do that, this is our take, you would go into a shrinking scenario
and that is what we don't want.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Oliver. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
George as you can imagine, we always benchmark ourselves against our main competitors, and
so did we for the first half of '21, and if I look at the respective numbers, be it from an EBIT margin
perspective on the automotive segment and CapEx and R&D ratio perspective, I can't see any
weakness of the BMW Group in terms of EBIT margin.
We are leading in the industry and in terms of CapEx and R&D ratio, of course always difficult. We
are in absolute numbers and relative numbers below our competitors. You might even argue well,
is it enough? We believe it's very focused and extremely well located in our organization and weclearly focus on one hand side as I've mentioned, when answering Dorothee's question focus on
electrification of our portfolio and of digitalization not only on the car as a product but the whole
organization, because this will lead to further efficiencies in our overhead. So I definitely -- and not
to be a misunderstood, we have a very, very clear focus with Neue Klasse. This is an electric
architecture which will be in terms of cost -- because we benchmark ourselves here as well
definitely leading in terms of industry standards.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the last question please.
Operator
The last question for today is from `Henning Cosman, HSBC, HSBC. Your line is now open.
Q - `Henning Cosman, HSBC `
Hi, good afternoon. Thank you for squeezing me in, I'm `Henning Cosman, HSBC from HSBC. I also had a
question on China and specifically with respect to your JV consultation. The consensus, of course,
is filled by a longshot, not reflecting the consolidation that I believe you are planning from January
2022. So I was just looking for you to please clarify, if you're still planning for consolidation from
2022 and if and when you plan to communicate around this a little bit more proactively to help
consensus accommodate the effects of that consolidation?
And maybe while we're at that, you could also clarify if you're planning to give an adjusted
strategic target margin range, the one that's currently 8% to 10%. Are you looking to give us an
updated version of that, including the China JV once consolidated on the group? That's my first
question, please.
And the second question is, I suppose on similar -- in a similar direction 2022 and beyond margin
seeing the implied margin that you have for H2 with the full year guidance now you have, of
course, more of a V shape, if you want from the H -- low H2 level to your strategic target
compared to your premium competitors.
Can we just talk a bit about how you see price normalization? Is it fully really attributable to those
cost items that you mentioned, or how do you say price in the industry is evolving in 2022, '23.
Lots of clients are concerned about the normalization, driving industry profit across the board
lower in '22, '23? Please, can we have your view on that? Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much -- sorry, Henning. Thank you very much Henning. Your questions will be
answered by Nicolas. Yes.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Henning two very relevant topics. Question number 1, increase of 25% from 50% to 75% in our
China JV, of course it's well underway. We have necessary approvals from the Chinese
authorization, and we are now preparing what I would call the administrative element required
planned for the first quarter 2022.
And we will, of course, communicate the impacts which -- financial impacts which are related to
this most likely at the end of this year or early next year with a guidance for 2022. What will be the
impact in maybe in the first glance on our strategic KPI, we are in final calculation what will be theimpact on our EBIT margin, but of course you have to integrate the fact that you have
consolidated turnover as well, not only the strong financial.
Without having said this, the quality of our of our business in China is very strong and we
anticipate that this will continue in '22. And this leads me to the second to your second question,
'22 and beyond margin of cause and beyond is a very, very difficult to forecast. I believe it's an
unique opportunity. The industry has maybe caused by the pandemic, we have seen inventories
trending in the right direction. This supported an improvement in our margin and our network
margin.
And we will do from our perspective and in the way we see as the business, everything to
continue with a extremely well balanced approach. And we have setup an strategic program as
part of our performance program, involving colleagues from production, from procurement, from
sales in order to be even more precise in managing demand, production supply and logistics.
And you see already the first positive impacts from this initiative in the '21 free cash flow. And this
is a very, very important element in order to maintain the strong pricing, in particular in the U.S
and in China. To be very straightforward in Europe, we see further potential for optimization as
not all markets are -- from an overall market environment in such a good shape as the two other
major markets I referred to.
Q - `Henning Cosman, HSBC `
Okay, thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your time and for joining us today. We wish
you a wonderful summer time, and please stay healthy. Ser gruss from Munich. Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This call has been concluded. You may
disconnect.