Q2 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Tesla Second Quarter 2021 Financial
Results and Q&A Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the
speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations, Senior
Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to Tesla's second quarter 2021 Q&A
webcast. I'm joined today by Elon Musk, Zachary Kirkhorn and a number of other executives. Our
Q2 results were announced at about 1 p.m. Pacific Time in the update deck we published at the
same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events and results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow-up. Please press star one now if you would like to join the question queue. But before
we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure. So, to recap, Q2 2021 was a record quarter on many levels. We achieved record production,
deliveries, and surpassed over $1 billion in GAAP net income for the first time in Tesla history. I'd
really like to congratulate everyone at Tesla for amazing job. This is really an incredible milestone.
It also seems that public sentiment towards EVs is at an inflection point. And at this point, I think
almost everyone agrees that electric vehicles are the only way forward.Regarding supply chain, while we're making cars at full speed, the global chip shortage situation
remains quite serious. For the rest of this year, our growth rate will be determined by the slowest
part in a our supply chain, which is a -- there's been a wide range of chips that are, at various
times, the slowest part in the supply chain.
I mean, it's worth noting that if we had everything else, if we had vast numbers of vehicles and
cells, we would not be able to make them -- everything except the chips, we wouldn't be able to
make them. The chip supply is fundamentally the governing factor on our output. It is difficult for
us to say how long this will last, because we don't have -- this is out of our control, essentially. It
does seem like it's getting better, but it's hard to predict.
So, in fact, even achieving the output that we did achieve was only due to an immense effort
from people within Tesla. We were able to substitute alternative chips and then write the
firmware in a matter of weeks. It's not just a matter of swapping out a chip; you also have to
rewrite the software. So, it was an incredibly intense effort of finding new chips, writing new
firmware, integrating it to vehicle and testing in order to maintain production.
And I'd also like to thank our suppliers, who work with us. And there have been many calls,
midnight, 1:00 a.m., just with suppliers in resolving a lot of the shortages. So, thanks very much to
our suppliers.
Let's see. In terms of FSD subscription, we were able to launch full self-driving subscription last
month. And we expect it to build slowly and then gather a lot of momentum over time. Obviously,
we need to have the full self-driving build widely available for it really to take off at high rates, and
we're making a lot of progress there. So, yes, I think FSD subscription will be a significant factor
probably next year.
Regards to Giga Texas and Giga Berlin, we're actually doing this earnings call from Giga Texas.
So, we're in the factory right now doing this earnings call -- this earnings call. And the team has
made incredible progress here. You can see the pictures online, and see that there was basically
nothing a year ago. And this large, mostly complete, large factory, a year later. So, really great
work by the Giga Texas team. And then also a great work in Berlin-Brandenburg with the team
there. So, we expect to be producing the new design of the Model Y in both factories in limited
production later this year
It's always like it's not -- it's hard to sort of explain to people, who have not been through the
agony of a manufacturing ramp. Like why can't you just turn it on and make 5,000 a week. This is
-- it is so hard to do manufacturing, it is so hard to do production. The best approximation, there
are 10,000 unique parts and processes that have to work. And the greater growth of production
goes as fast as the least lucky and dumbest of those 10,000 things. And a bunch of them are not
even in our control, so it's insanely difficult.
I'm fond of saying that prototypes are easy and production is hard. And arguably, the really
remarkable thing that Tesla has done is not to make an electric car or to be a car startup,
because there have been hundreds of car startups in the United States and outside the United
States, so the thing that's remarkable is that Tesla didn't go bankrupt in reaching volume
production. That's the amazing part, because everyone else did. Because they all thought the
prototype or the idea was the hard part, and it is not; it is trivial by comparison with actual
production.
So, it's always worth noting that of all the American car companies, there are only two that have
not gone bankrupt, and that is Ford and Tesla. So, the seeds of defeat are sown on the day ofoften that the seeds of defeat are sown on the day of victory. We will endeavor not to make that
the case at Tesla.
So, let's see. The model lines in Texas, and made in Texas and Berlin, will look very much like the
Model Ys we currently make, but there are substantial improvements in the difficulty of
manufacturing. So, for example, the Model Y made here and in Berlin will have a cast front body
and a cast rear body. Whereas the one in California has a cast rear body, but not a cast front
body. We're also aiming to do a structural pack with 4680s cells, which is a mass reduction and a
cost reduction. But we're not counting on that as the only way to make things work.
We have some backup plan with a non-structural pack and 2170s essentially. So, at scale
production, we obviously want to be using 4680s and a structural pack. From a physics
standpoint, this is the best architecture; and from an economic standpoint, it is the lowest cost
way to go, so the lightest, lowest cost.
But there's a lot of new technology there, so it is difficult to predict with precision when does it
work and when you reach scale production. An Drew is going to talk a bit more about the 4680
production. We are making great progress on 4680 cells, but there are -- there is a tremendous
amount of innovation that we're packing into that 4680 cell. And so it's not simply a minor
improvement on state-of-the-art. There are, and we went through this on the battery cell day,
really dozens of -- half a dozen major improvements and dozens of small improvements. So, I
think it will be great. But it's difficult to say when the last of the technical challenges will be solved.
So, in conclusion, our team continues to make huge efforts to make our factories run at full
speed, which is very difficult. We have had some factory shutdowns due to part shortages. And
we hope those will be relieved in the coming weeks and months. And we're making great
progress on full self-driving. Solid progress is not easy to see, because this has to go to
foundational software level. And so, then it's updating sort of a two steps forward, one step back
situation. But over time, should do two steps forward, one step back, and keep going, you do
move forward. So, I'm highly confident that the cars will be capable of full self-driving. If they have
a full self-driving computer and the cameras, I'm confident that they will be able to drive
themselves with the safety levels substantially greater than that of the average person.
Once again, thanks to all of our employees, who are making this a breakthrough year for Tesla
and an incredible quarter. Thanks, guys.
`Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, and we have some follow-up remarks from Zachary Kirkhorn.
`Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Master of Coin & Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Martin; and thanks, Elon. Just to reiterate, Q2 was a great quarter for the Tesla team
with strong improvements across the business. In particular, auto gross profit and margin
excluding credits increased substantially. This was primarily driven by better cost optimization
across our factories, good execution against our cost reduction plans, as well as increases in
production and delivery volumes. There was some benefit from pricing action, mostly in North
America. However, it was small in the context of the other contributors.
Note that the Model S and X program was at a slight loss for the quarter due to the relatively low
volume. In supply chain challenges including expedites continued to provide cost headwinds.
Additionally, it's encouraging to see the progress made on profitability within our energy andservices and other businesses. While there's some benefit to looking at our progress quarter-
over-quarter, I find it more helpful to look at progress over a slightly long-term horizon.
Over the last two years, our vehicle delivery volumes have more than doubled. This volume
increase was made possible by a steady decrease in ASPs of more than 10%, driven by a
roadmap to increase affordability and shifting mix towards our more affordable vehicles. Yet over
that same period of time, our auto gross margin excluding credits has increased nearly 10
percentage points to our highest yet since the introduction of Model 3. This is only possible,
because our average cost per vehicle has reduced by more than the reduction in average price.
This is a remarkable achievement in the context of the volume growth and ASP reduction as
mentioned, and a testament to the hard work by the Tesla team.
Additionally, OpEx as a percentage of revenue has declined and in particular SG&A, representing
the work we've done to become more efficient as we scale the Company while still making the
required R&D investments to support our future. As a result, our GAAP operating margins have
risen from negative to double-digit, in line with what we have guided. By managing our overhead
costs and driving higher volumes, our P&L is benefiting from the marginal profitability of each
incremental unit; or said differently, we are recognizing the benefits of scale and improved fixed
cost absorption.
With strong operating cash flows and cash balance, we are putting that cash to use. CapEx
continues to tick up, primarily driven by capacity investments in Austin, Berlin, and Shanghai.
Additionally, each quarter, we are using our cash to retire legacy debt, which was taken on at a
time when interest rates and company risk were much higher than in today's environment.
As I mentioned before, our 2021 volumes will skew towards the second half of the year as we
push for continued sequential increases in volume. Despite the great work so far managing the
instability of the supply chain, these challenges remain and are unfortunately increasing in pain
with the higher volume. As we work to the uncertainty, we want to ensure we do our best to
manage customer wait time as well as the impact these interruptions have on our employees and
costs. And as Elon mentioned, volume growth will be determined by parts availability as we have
the factory capacity ready and are in a strong demand position. I'm excited to see the progress
made by the Tesla team as we continue building the business and strengthening our financials.
Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you very much, Zach. And now let's go through the retail investor questions on
say.com. The first question from Robert M. Is, Tesla's website still says Cybertruck production is
expected to begin in late 2021. Can Tesla share more details on the current status of the
Cybertruck and confirm if production is still (Technical Difficulty)
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `Lars, do you want to --
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President - Vehicle Engineering
Sorry, we cut out there for a second. Yeah, the Cybertruck is currently in its alpha stages. We
finished the basic engineering architecture of the vehicle. With the Cybertruck, we're redefining
how the vehicle is being made. As Elon said, it carries much of the structural pack and large
casting designs of the Model Y being built in Berlin and Austin. Obviously, those take priority over
the Cybertruck, but we are moving into the beta phases of Cybertruck later this year and will be
looking to ramp that in production in Giga Texas after Model Y is up and going.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, it's just worth reemphasizing that the extraordinary difficulty of ramping production of large
manufactured items. With risk of being repetitive, it is essentially easy to make prototypes or sort
of handbook small volume production. But anything produced at a high-volume, which is really
what's relevant here is it's going to move as fast as the slowest of the say rough order
magnitude 10,000 unique parts and processes. And so, you can have 9,999, but just one is
missing -- I mean we were missing, for example, like -- a big struggle this quarter, was the
module that controls the airbags and the seatbelts. And obviously you cannot ship a car without
those.
And that -- that's -- that limited our production severely worldwide, in Shanghai and at Fremont.
So, it's like it wouldn't have mattered if we had 17 different car models, because we -- they won't
need the airbag module, so it's just irrelevant.
So, the -- in order for Cybertruck and Semi to scale to volume that's meaningful for customer
deliveries, we've got to solve the chip shortage working with our suppliers. The dealers kind of
say, why don't you just built a chip fab. Okay, well -- okay, that would take us even moving like
lightning 12 to 18 months. So, it's not like -- you can just whip up a chip fab; it's just like, yeah, let's
make a chip fab. So, some of these things are -- yeah, anyway, it is quite a trial dealing with all of
the constraints of scaling a large manufactured object.
I think it may be the case that Tesla is scaling -- I think we might be the fastest in history ever for
scaling a large manufactured object. I think maybe the Model T would have been comparable
back in the day, the Ford Model T; probably Internet knows the answer. But I think we may be just
scaling large manufactured objects at the fastest rate in history or I'd like to know who did it
faster so we can learn from them. So, it's worth just noting that, you know, in the grand scheme of
things, it's not bad.
So, yeah; so, the Cybertruck and Semi, actually both are heavy users of cell capacity. So, we got
to make sure we have the cell capacity for those two vehicles or it's kind of pointless. We can
make a small number of vehicles. But the effective cost if you make a small number of vehicles is
insane, like this would only cost $1 million a piece or more. And there's a reason why you think the
volume production, which is to get the economies of scale that'll get the cost down. So, we are
looking at a pretty massive increase in cell availability next year, but it's not like in January 1, it's --
it comes through -- it ramps up through the course of next year. But even without Tesla --
(Technical Difficulty)
Hello? Okay. Even without Tesla cell production, maybe our suppliers will be able to deliver about
twice as much cell output in next year as this year.A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. Given concerns over cell bottleneck and growth, our target is to grow cell supply ahead of
the 50% year-on-year growth targets of the vehicle business and also enable increased energy
storage deployments.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
So, yeah, cell suppliers are tracking to double their production in 2022.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, it's worth noting like if you have a target of certain number, that doesn't mean it happens like
as sure as night follows day, it hits the target. So, if there is some calamity in the world that
interrupts the supply chain, then it will be less. But the contracts that we have with cell suppliers
call for roughly a doubling of cell supply to Tesla in 2022. And we have to juggle these
exponential -- this whole bunch of exponential graph sort of overlay on top of each other and
small changes and where you are on the X axis of time can quite substantially change the area
under the probe. So, what we're thinking of doing is like it's depending on -- especially
overshooting on cell supply for vehicles. And then as we have to say, excess cell supply in one
month or another, then routing that cell output to the Megapack and Powerwall; or by the same
token, if we're prioritizing vehicle production, if there's a shortage of cell for some reasons, then
we will throttle down Megapack and Powerwall production. So, it could be -- something's got to
give basically.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Or if there's a disruption in the vehicle production --
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
-- in the outlet for cell --
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, exactly. There's a tremendous amount of inertia in the supply chain. So if we say it to a
supplier, we want you to double cell output, well, even doing that in a year is very difficult and
then that system has a tremendous amount of momentum, it is like a plateau of supertankers; it's
insane.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Speaking of which from a raw material perspective, we also have long-term contracts to secure
our supply chain to also enable its growth. So, we're not just looking at the suppliers, but
upstream from there.A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, exactly.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Which is more flexible.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, exactly. As mentioned, things will move as fast as the slowest part of the entire supply
chain, which goes all the way back to raw materials, lithium, and nickel and that kind of thing. And
there is sometimes misperception that Tesla uses a lot of cobalt, but we actually don't. Apple
uses, I think, almost 100% cobalt in their batteries and cell phones and laptops, but Tesla uses no
cobalt in the iron phosphate patch and almost none in the nickel-based chemistries.
So, on a weighted average basis, we might use 2% cobalt compared to say Apple's 100% cobalt.
Anyway, so it's just -- it's really just not a factor, we expect basically to have zero cobalt in the
future. So, you know, I do say with -- I think probably there is a long-term shift more in the
direction of iron-based lithium-ion cells rather over nickel. As the energy density of sort of iron ore
-- the iron phosphate might as well support iron phosphate -- taken for granted, but iron-based
cells, lithium-ion cells and nickel-based lithium-ion cells, I think probably we'll see a shift. My guess
is probably two-thirds iron, one-third nickel or something on that order.
And this was actually good, because there's plenty of iron in the world. There's an insane amount
of iron, but nickel is -- there is much less nickel and there's way less cobalt. So, it is good for
relieving the long-term scaling to move to iron-based cells mostly. And I think long-term --
possibly all -- there's a good chance that all stationary storage that is Powerwall and Megapack
move to iron. It seems most likely the case since you do not need to transport it and there's less
of volume that's constraint for stationary storage. So, then nickel would be for really for long-
range road transport, ships, and aircraft that kind of thing.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the second question from retail, which is Elon has said that Tesla will be
opening up the Supercharger network to other EVs later this year. Can you share some more
details on how this will be structured? Will this be select brands or will they contribute to the
growth of this network?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. We're currently thinking it's a real simple thing, where you just download the Tesla app and
you go to a Supercharger, and you just indicate which store you are in. So, you plug in your car
even if it's not Tesla, and then you just access the app and say, turn on the store that I'm in for
how much electricity. And this should basically work with I think almost any manufacturers' cars.
There will be a time constraint. So, if the charge rate is super slow, then somebody will be
charged more, because the biggest constraint at the Superchargers is time, how occupied is the
store. And we'll also be smarter with how we charge for electricity at the Supercharger. So, rush
hour of charging will be more expensive than -- car is charging, because there are times when the
Superchargers were empty and times when they're jam-packed, and so it makes sense to have
some time-based discrimination.A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yes, we've been doing that and it's been working.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
And people will respond and it helps with utilization and things like that.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, exactly. So, yes, I think we're -- in Europe and China and most part of the world, it's the
same connector for everyone. So, this is a fairly easy thing to do, developed our own connector,
which in my opinion is actually develop supercharging. Tesla was the only one, who had a high
powered charging and it was standard. So, we developed our own connector, which in my opinion
it's actually the best connector. It's small and light, looks good. So, an adapter is needed to work
for EVs in North America, but people could buy this adapter, and we anticipate having it available
at the superchargers as well if people don't of steal them or something.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
We have a good solution to that.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. So, that's constraint on North American thing.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
That's basically a vestige of history. But I think we do emphasize that it is -- our goal is to support
the advent of sustainable energy. It is not to create a walled garden and use that to bludgeon our
competitors, which is sometimes used by some companies.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
I think, it's also important to comment that increasing the utilization of the network actually
reduces our costs, which allows us to lower charging prices for our customers, makes the network
more profitable, allows us to grow the network faster, so it's a good thing there. And no matter
what, we're going to continue to aggressively expand the network capacity, increasing charging
speed, improving the trip planning tools to protect against site congestion using dynamic pricing
as Elon mentioned.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `And just continue to focus on minimum wait time for all customers.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Obviously, in order for this to be -- for the Superchargers be useful to other car companies'
cars, we need to grow the network faster than we're growing vehicle output --
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
-- which is not easy. We're growing vehicle output data at a -- at hell of a rate. So, Superchargers
need to grow faster than vehicle output. So, this is a lot of work for the Supercharger team, but it
is only useful in the grand scheme of things. It's only useful to the public if we're able to grow
faster than Tesla vehicle output.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So, that is our goal.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And the third question is, Elon said 4680 cells aren't reliable enough for
vehicles. Is this referring to cycle life degradation or something else? Please update us on the
progress of 4680s? And what still needs to be done to make them reliable enough for vehicles?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I mean, really, this is not -- we'll definitely make the 4680 reliable enough for vehicles, and I
think are at the point, where in limited volume it is reliable enough for vehicles.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
The -- again, going back to like limited production is easy, prototype production is easy, but high-
volume production is hard. There are a number of challenges in transitioning from sort of small-
scale production to large volume production. And not to get too much into the leads of things,
but right now, we have a challenge to grow up with basically the -- what's called calendaring or
basically squashing the cathode material to a particular height. So, it just goes through these
rollers and gets squashed like pizza dough basically, but very hard pizza dough. And it's causing --
it's denting the calendar rolls. This is not something that happened when the calendar rolls were
smaller, but it's happening when the calendar rolls are bigger. So, it's just like -- we're like, okay,
we weren't expecting that.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `Yeah. It's not -- it's not a like science problem, it's an engineering problem. It's not a question of
if, it's a question of when.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
And the team is 100% focused on resolving these limiting processes as quickly as possible.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Exactly.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. And on the reliability side, as Elon mentioned, we have successfully validated performance
and the lifetime durability of the 4680 cells produced in Kato. And we're continuing ongoing
verification of that reliability. We're actually accruing over 1 million equivalent miles on our cells that
we produce every month. In our testing activities, the focus on that is very clear. We want high-
quality cells for all of our customers. And yeah, we're just focused on the unlucky limiting steps in
the facility. And with the engineers focused on those few steps remaining, we're going to break
through as fast as possible.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Meantime, we're -- we have a massive amount of equipment on order and arriving for the high-
volume cell production in Austin and Berlin. And -- but obviously, given what we've learned with
the pilot plant, which is in Fremont, which is really quite a big plant by most standards. We will
have to modify a bunch of that equipment, so it won't be able to start immediately. But it seems
like, correct me if I'm wrong, but we think, most likely, we will hit an annualized rate of a 100
gigawatt hours a year sometime next year.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
We'll have all the equipment installed --
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
-- to accomplish a 100 gigawatt hours and it's possible.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
That by the end of the year, we will be at an annualized rate of 100 gigawatt hours by the end of
the year.A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I mean, My guess is more likely than not, above 50% of reaching 100 gigawatt hours a year
by the end of next year on the annualized rate, something like that.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
It could shift by a little bit, so --
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah, and --
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
-- but it's like nothing as Drew mentioned, nothing fundamental.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
No.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Just a lot of work.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. And even to the large roller question, Elon, right, like on the anode side, the large rollers
work great, no concerns. And so, we're just learning as we go. And the nice thing about having
that facility on a fast-track like we had it, and we talked about it at battery day, was really de-
risking the big factories here --
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
-- we've done and we've learned a lot. And with each successive iteration, the ramp up and the
equipment installation will be faster and more stiff.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you very much. And the last question from retail is from Emmett. Can Elon do an
interview with one of our YouTube channels once or twice a year? I would nominate David Lee on
Investing or Rob Maurer's Tesla Daily channels as first possible candidates.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I guess, yeah, I'll do your interview. I mean spare my head, like if I'm doing interviews and I
can't do actual other work. So, it's not -- there's only so much time in the day. So, but right, yeah,say the last time I'll do earnings call, but this is the -- I will no longer be default doing earnings
calls. So, obviously, I'll do the annual shareholder meeting, but I think going forward I will most
likely not be on earnings calls, unless there's something really important that I need to say.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Now let's go to institutional questions. The first one and we covered a lot of this
already. Can you please update us on timelines for the start of production of Berlin and Austin,
Model Y Cybertruck and the Semi? Do you expect the ramp of Cybertruck to be as difficult as it is
a new process?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think Cybertruck ramp will be difficult, because it's such a new architecture. I mean it's going to
be a great product. This might, I think it will be our best product ever, but it does a lot of
fundamentally new design ideas in Cybertruck. Nobody's ever really made a car like this before --
a vehicle like this before. So, there will probably be challenges, because there's so much
unexplored territory. Yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. I think question 2 and question 3, we can skip, given we have already addressed it. I'll
go to question 4. In five years' time, how much faster or better could you be at manufacturing
capacity expansion, using current pace and what are the biggest issues you need to solve to get
to that rate?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, like I said, I think we might be the fastest growing company in history for any large
manufactured item. So those who have not actually been involved in manufacturing around have
just no idea how painful and difficult it is. It's like there's -- you got to eat a lot of glass -- and -- for
automating production ramp is hard.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President - Vehicle Engineering
Yeah. I mean I think, if you look at the expansion we've done in Shanghai, that factory was built in
less than a year and ramped in five to six months to full volume.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
It took longer than that. Took longer than that, about a year.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President - Vehicle Engineering
And when you consider cut-and-paste, we've repeated that in Fremont and whatever. But now
with Berlin and Austin, we have new factories and new designs. And so there's always challenges
as you said, Elon, with new designs and ramping that. But I think having teams in three locations or
three continents will definitely expand our ability and our capacity to grow more lines, rather than
just having the one factory in Fremont that we had year and half ago.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So, I mean for Shanghai, it's simply incredible the team built the factory in 11 months, but it
took longer than -- it's longer than building the factory. It took longer than that to actually reachvolume production -- high volume production. So, took about a year. So when you put a factory in
a new geography, in order for that factory to be efficient, you have to localize the supply chain.
So, there's no such thing as cut and paste. It does not exist.
And obviously, it would be insane to do vehicle production in Europe and send vast numbers of
parts from North America. That would be -- that would make producing in Europe, for example,
just crazy. You've got to localize the supply chains, have efficiency, and then you're moving as fast
as your least lucky, least goods supplier. Yeah, some of these supply chains, when you go like
three or four layers deep. Its frankly, I feel at times that we are inheriting force majeure on Earth.
So if anything goes wrong anywhere on Earth, something happens to mess up the supply chain.
So, yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. I think the human capital growth of having factory here in Berlin, Shanghai and Fremont
does a lot of stuff, maybe not exponentially grow, but hopefully --
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We are exponentially growing.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. Hopefully, maintain that exponential growth.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So it also -- it takes a while to hire old people and train old people to operate the factory.
The factory is like giant cybernetic collective. And you can't just hire 10,000 people and have
them -- have work instantly. It's not possible.
I really encourage more people to get involved in manufacturing. I think especially in the U.S., like
this is just not in an area where all that many smart people have gone into. I think U.S. has an over-
allocation of talent in finance and law. It's both a criticism and a compliment. I'm not saying we
shouldn't have people in finance and law, I'm just saying this might be -- maybe we have too
many smart people in those arenas really. Maybe? So--
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Manufacturing is fun.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, manufacturing is great. It's a very interesting problem to solve, and obviously you can't
have stuff unless someone makes it. That's how you get stuff. Yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you very much. And let's go to the last investor question. Does Tesla plan to offer
more services beyond FSD or high-speed connectivity as part of its subscription bundle going
forward? What areas in particular present an opportunity?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Yeah. We don't have a lot of ideas on this to be frank. Really, full self-driving is the main thing.
Things are obviously headed towards fully autonomous electric vehicle future. And I think Tesla is
well-positioned and frankly is the leader objectively in both of those arenas, electrification and
autonomy.
So as always, it's always temping to strike client analogies with other companies, whatever. But
really the value of fully electric autonomous fleet is extremely gigantic, boggles the mind really.
So that will be one of the most valuable things that is ever done in the history of civilization.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And now let's go back to analyst Q&A please.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions.) Our first question comes from `Colin Rusch, Oppenheimer with Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Oppenheimer `
Thanks so much guys. Can you speak to the attached rates for FSD so far? And where you're
targeting in terms of the subscription numbers?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. It's not worth commenting on right now, it's not meaningful. We really need both full self-
driving, at least, the beta to be widely available, so anyone who wants it can get it. Otherwise, it'll
be pointless to read anything into where things are right now. And so -- yeah.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Oppenheimer `
Okay. And then just the follow up there is about the cadence of the regulatory environment,
keeping up with the technology. Are you seeing meaningful evolution in terms of the regulators
really understanding the technology and beginning to set some standards here sometime in near
term?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
At least in the U.S., we don't see regulation as the fundamental limiter. We've obviously got to
make it work and then demonstrate that the reliability is significantly in excess of the average
human driver, for it to be allowed -- for you to be able to use it without paying attention to the
road. But I think we have a massive fleet. So it will be, I think, straightforward to make the
arguments on statistical grounds, just based on the number of interventions, especially in events
that would result in a crash.
At scale, it will have billions of miles of travel to be able to show that it is the safety of the car with
autopilot on is 100% or 200% or more safer than the average human driver. At that point, I think it
would be unconscionable to not to allow autopilot, because the car just becomes way less safe. It
would be sort of like shake the elevator analogy. Back in the day, we used to have elevator
operators with like a big switch that -- and they operate the elevator and move between floors.
But they get tired or maybe drunk or something or distracted and every now and again,
somebody would be kind of sheared in half between floors. That's kind of the situation we have
with cars.Autonomy will become so safe that it will be unsafe to manually operate the car relatively
speaking. And today obviously we just get an elevator, we press the button for which floor we
want, and it just takes us there safely.
And it would be quite alarming if those elevators were operated by a person with a giant switch.
That's how it would be with cars.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question please.
Operator
Next question comes from `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody. Your cost of goods sold per vehicle is already down to the mid $37,000 range in
the quarter. It's down $5,000 year-over-year despite some of the inefficiencies that you talked
about. And I know that a lot is going to change from here, just given how mix is going to evolve.
But if you're successful on the structural pack and front and rear castings in the launch of the
4680 cell, can you just maybe give us a sense of what a successful outcome would look like,
maybe a year from now? Obviously, a lot has to go right, but just any kind of broad framework for
us to think about.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, it's really difficult for us -- to make specific predictions it's very difficult. I think we felt
confident of say at least a few percent growth year-over-year next year, and maybe it's a 100%.
But that's -- we need a lot of crystal balls to figure out exactly what it's going to be. And it is
literally impossible to make a specific prediction. But at least 50, maybe 100, something like that.
Q - `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research `
Okay, and maybe just separately from this. Can you just clarify what the status is of some of the
advances in battery manufacturing, things like dry cathode mixing that you talked about on
battery day. What's the timeline? How are those evolving?
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah (multiple speakers)
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah. We commented on it today, already actually, but in the facility at Kato, over 90% of the
processes have demonstrated rate there, but we are limited by the unlucky few that have not.
And that's what we're working on. One of them that Elon mentioned was running the full-scale
cathode calendar. We're working through some improvements that we need to make to that
equipment, and to the actual raw material itself to not have those limitations.
But again, it's an engineering problem. It's not a question of if, it's a question of when. On the
mixing side, we haven't actually really had any challenges specific to your question.
Fundamentally, we're still happy with the dry process direction in terms of the factory footprint,
complexity, utility, consumption, space, and overall complexity simplification.A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
And I mean, and the cost associated with everything that I just mentioned.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. We don't have programs [ph] as dry cathode, I mean, it's a -- I don't know, maybe it's like
10 or 15% of the cost of equipment or something like that? I don't know, 20% maybe.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yes. 10%, closer to 10%.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, and so it's like -- just like people don't think like this is like the Messiah or something, wet
versus dry reduces. To dry is like 10% less cost than wet. So it's not -- 10%, slow, nothing to
sneeze at, especially if you're making hundreds of gigawatt hours a year. But it's not the Messiah,
basically. Yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. We can go to the next question, please.
Operator
Next question comes from `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research with New Street Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my question. I have another question, actually, on batteries, but
on a slightly different angle. I was wondering how you're looking at your sourcing strategy for the
4680. You've talked a lot about all the work you're doing to develop your in-house production.
But what about asking other battery manufacturers to do 4680 cell with their own technology?
Maybe less innovation than what you guys are lining up internally. And I was wondering if the first
4680 cells that we see on the road will definitely come from Tesla's own manufacturing lines, or
whether it would be coming actually from outside suppliers as well. And I have a quick follow-up.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, we are, in fact, working with our existing suppliers to produce 4680 format cells. And this is
just a guess right now. But I see it sort of like consolidating around 4680 nickel-based, structural
pack, and for long-range vehicles. And then not necessarily a 4680 format, but some other
format for iron-based cells.
So we right now, we kind of have the Baskin Robbins of batteries situation, where there's -- we've
so many formats and so many chemistries, that it's like we've got like 36 flavors of battery at this
point. This is just -- this results in an engineering drag coefficient where each variants of cell
chemistry and format requires, to an amount of engineering to maintain it and troubleshoot, and
this inhibits our forward progress. So it is going to be important to consolidate to maybe ideallytwo form factors, maybe three, but ideally two. And then just one nickel chemistry and one iron
chemistry, so we don't have to troubleshoot so many different variants.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah, and towards that end, we are engaging with the suppliers that we've had good
partnerships with on 4680 designs to enable that new application, and so far so good. They're
working on -- they're bringing their core competencies to bear on that, we're not mandating like
what's going on inside, but it's been a good collaboration.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. We do expect to see significant increases in supply from our existing suppliers, in addition
to the cells that Tesla's making. So it's both. Sometimes, I get questions from our cell suppliers
like, are we just going to make all the cells ourselves? We're like, no, please make as many as you
possibly can and supply them to us.
We have a significant unmet demand in stationary storage. Megapack is basically sold out through
the end of next year, I believe.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain & Energy Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We have a massive backlog in Powerwall demand, the demand to Powerwall versus production is
an insane mismatch. Now part of that problem is also the semiconductor issue. So we used a lot
of the same chips in the Powerwall as you do in a car, so it's like, which one do want to make?
Cars or Powerwalls? So we need to make cars, so therefore Powerwall production has been
reduced. But as the semiconductor shortage is alleviated, then we can massively ramp up
Powerwall production.
I think we have a chance of hitting an annualized rate of a million units of Powerwall next year,
maybe, toward on the order of 20,000 a week. But again, dependent on cell supply and
semiconductors. But in terms of demand, I think there's probably demand in excess of a million
Powerwalls per year. And actually, just a vast amounts of the Megapacks for utilities.
As we all transition to sustainable energy production, solar and wind are intermittent and by their
nature really need battery packs in order to provide a steady flow of electricity. And when you
look at all the utilities in the world, this is a vast amount of batteries that are needed. That's why,
long term, we really think sort of combined Tesla and suppliers need to produce at least 1,000
gigawatt hours a year, and maybe 2,000 gigawatt hours a year.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research `
Okay. Great. Thank you. And I have a quick question. I know, Elon, you don't think it's meaningful
today, but I'd be curious to know if you have any thoughts about when you announced the new
pricing on the FSD ring from $10,000 and thrown to $199 without looking. I'd be curious to
understand how it affected behavior in issues, so like a massive effect, affecting the service. And
I'm not thinking about people looking at it as a message, but more to try the most advanced
version of autopilots, and to try it. In the first days, even on the pricing, have you seen like a very
significant spike in the tech rate? And can you give us a sense of how big it was?A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. You're asking like, is the FSD tech rate too expensive and that's why we're doing
subscription? Or I'm not sure if I understand your question correctly?
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research `
No, my question is from the time you announced like the subscription at $199 the amounts, how
much did the tech rate increase like the (inaudible) people who basically took the subscription
about the new car? So, how it was when they had to pay 10 grand upfront.
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Master of Coin & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. This is Zach here. I think we're still early in understanding how FSD subscription will unfold.
But a couple of data points here. So, we took a look at our backlog to see customers in our
backlog, who have ordered FSD, did they cancel presumably to go to subscription after they take
delivery? And the level of cancellations there, we're not seeing cannibalization there, it's possible
that that changes, but that was also part of our pricing strategy at $99 and $199.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, and we--
A - `Zachary J. Kirkhorn, Master of Coin & Chief Financial Officer `
Also part of our pricing strategy at $99 and $199.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Like any given price is going to be wrong, so we'll just adjust it over time as we see the
value proposition makes sense to people. So, we're just really -- I'm not thinking about this a lot
right now. We need to make Full Self-Driving work, in order for it to be a compelling value
proposition. Otherwise, people are kind of betting on the future. Like right now, does it make
sense for somebody to do FSD subscription? I think it's debatable. But once we have Full Self-
Driving widely deployed, then the value proposition will be clear. And at that point, I think basically
everyone will use it, or it could be a rare individual who doesn't.
A - `Martin Viecha, Sr.Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you very much for your help. And I think that's all the time we have for today. Thanks
for all your questions, and we'll speak to you again in three months' time. Have a good day,
everyone.
A - `Elon R. Musk, Technoking, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
All right. Thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.