Q3 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental. I would like to welcome you
all to our telephone conference today. With us are `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of
Management ;and `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board, our CFO. First, `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board will take you through our financial
results. `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer will then give you an update on the business performance during the quarter.
Afterwards, we will have time for our Q&A session.
So we start with Nicolas. Nicolas, please go ahead.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Thanks, Max. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group's positive business
development in the first nine months of the year concerns our strategic costs. Throughout the
semiconductor shortage, our employees have delivered outstanding performance month after
month that is how we were able to raise our expected targets for the year again in September.
All segments are on track to meet our guidance for the year. We continue to focus on gearing the
BMW Group towards emission free mobility funding the investment needed from our ongoing
business. We will keep our performance program going with the main focus on the consistent
expectation of market potential. Moreover, we are picking up the pace in the digitalization of
processes across the entire company, and we will continue to work consistently on the
optimization of our working capital in particular on our logistics.
Let's start with the financial figures for the group. Group revenues for the first three quarters of
2021 climbed by 19.2% to EUR82.83 billion. Third quarter revenues increased to EUR27.47 billion.
As expected, group earnings before tax for the year to the end of September were significantly
higher than the previous year at EUR13.15 billion. The figure for the third quarter was EUR3.42
billion. The group EBT margin for the year till the end of September was 15.9%. In the third
quarter, it was 12.4%. We therefore can be confident that we will not only achieve significantlyhigher group earnings for the year as previously announced, but also surpass our long-term
target of at least 10% for group EBT margin.
After a strong first half year, third quarter vehicle sales were as expected lower than the prior
year quarter due in part to the ongoing semiconductor supply bottlenecks. Strong customer
demand is reflected in continuing positive pricing effects, while the model mix has also continued
to improve. Sustained high prices on international pre-owned car market also resulted in very
favorable income levels from the resale of end-of-lease vehicles in the third quarter. This has
enabled us to more than offset the decrease in volumes. Ladies and gentlemen, with the market
launch of the two all-electric iX and i4 models in November, we reached another major milestone.
New orders for both vehicles are very strong. We continue to push forward with the electrification
of our entire model range as planned. As previously announced, we are also making further
investments in digitalization. This will be a particular focus for us this year and in 2022 with respect
to both our vehicles and our processes. By the end of the year, the BMW Group will have the
largest fleet capable of over-the-air upgrades among the competition with around 2.5 million
vehicles.
Also, as previously announced, research and development spending for the third quarter was up
almost EUR200 million on the previous year at EUR1.6 billion. This was also higher than the
preceding quarters. The R&D ratio increased to 6.5% for the quarter and 5.3% for the first nine
months of the year. We continue to expect the R&D ratio for the full year to be on par with the
previous year at about 6%. At around EUR950 million, capital expenditure is also higher than the
previous year's quarter as planned. This represents a CapEx ratio of 3.5% for the third quarter
and 3.2% for the year to the end of September. We still expect the ratio for the full year to be
well below our target figure of 5%. So the overall positive market development EBITDA result and
the financial result continued to improve in the third quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the individual segments, starting with the automotive
segment. As expected, semiconductor supply bottlenecks slowed down sales in the third quarter,
however, thanks to our ability to respond quickly and the high level of flexibility in our global
production system, we were able to limit the impact on vehicle manufacturing. In line with strong
customer demand, revenues increased more than EUR70 billion in the year to the end of
September. Third quarter revenues totaled EUR22.63 billion, around 3% more than the previous
year. The segment also achieved a new all-time high with an EBIT of EUR7.95 billion at the end of
September. Despite the decrease in volume due to the supply bottlenecks, EBIT for the third
quarter rose by nearly 19% to EUR1.76 billion. This represents an EBIT margin of 11.3 % for the year
to the end of September and 7.8% for the quarter.
As expected, the earnings momentum weakened at the start of the second half of the year
compared with the first half year. In addition to the semiconductor issues, increased raw material
prices and higher fix costs due to the growth in research and development spending also has an
impact on them. However, this was offset by positive pricing effects resulting from supply
shortages and positive trend in residual values. This development is also reflected in the
contribution of our Chinese joint venture BBA to the financial result. The total third quarter at
equity results was EUR35 million higher than the previous year. The strong earnings momentum
and consistent ongoing management of inventory levels are also evident in the segment's free
cash flow.
At the end of September, free cash flow totaled almost EUR6.3 billion despite higher capital
expenditure, scheduled cash outflows for personnel restructuring measures and payment of the
fine imposed by the European Commission in connection with its antitrust proceedings. This
means we are on course to meet our upwardly adjusted target for 2021 of around EUR6.5 billion.We anticipate a further increase in capital expenditure in the fourth quarter as well as a
significantly higher advanced tax payments. Due to the supply bottlenecks I mentioned, earnings
development will also weaken slightly compared to the first nine months of the year.
The financial services segment once again delivered a strong performance. More than 1.5 million
new financing and leasing contracts were concluded with retail customers in the year to the end
of September. This means the number of new contracts is also higher than in 2019 before the
pandemic. Between January and September, segment earnings before tax climbed by nearly
EUR1.9 billion to more than EUR2.9 billion. The figure for the third quarter increased to EUR988
million. The key factor in this development remains the exceptionally positive trend in pre-owned
vehicle markets worldwide leading to higher income from the resale of end-of-lease vehicles.
Expenses for credit risks also remain low.
In the prior year, we adjusted risk provisioning for the pandemic, which had a dampening effect
on segment earnings. The motorcycle segment also performed well in the first nine months of
the year. More than 156,000 motorcycles were delivered to customers in the year to the end of
September, the fifth more than in the same period of 2020. The segment's operating earnings
almost tripled to EUR323 million. The figure for the third quarter was EUR39 million. This
represents an EBIT margin of 14.3% for the first nine-months and 6.1% for the quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on now to the outlook for our key financial and non-financial
performance indicators. We expect to see a significant increase in group pre-tax earnings for the
full year. The number of employees is projected to be slightly lower than last year. In the
automotive segment, we are forecasting a solid increase in the number of vehicles delivered to
customers compared to the previous year. Electrified vehicles will account for a significantly higher
percentage of total volumes. By the end of September, we had already sold more than twice as
many battery vehicles, electric vehicles than in the previous year. We will once again significantly
reduce the CO2 emissions of our new vehicle fleet.
However, the current uncertainty over semiconductor supplies will continue to disrupt production
in the fourth quarter. As previously announced, high raw material prices and the increase in fixed
costs towards the end of the year will also impact us [ph]. We expect the EBIT margin in the
automotive segment to be within the range of 9.5% to 10.5% as previously communicated. The
main reason for the positive adjustment our guidance in September was continued positive
pricing for both new and pre-owned vehicles.
In the financial services segment, we expect a return on equity of between 20% and 23% in line
with strong business development and the positive residual value and credit risk situation. In the
motorcycle segment, we anticipate a significant increase in deliveries. The EBIT margin will remain
within our target range of 8% to 10%. Our guidance assumes that political and economic
conditions will not deteriorate significantly. Ladies and gentlemen, as previously announced, we
expect a stable earnings development in the fourth quarter. Customer demand will remain
strong. However, the semiconductor supply bottlenecks will still be the main influencing factor.
Our strong performance in the first nine months of the year once again proved our operating
strength. At the same time, we continue to focus on the further technological development of
our programs. That is why we will enter the year 2022 with full confidence. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Nicolas, and now, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer. Oliver, please go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `Good afternoon, everyone. As `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board just outlined, the BMW group is profitable and the
company is growing. This is thanks to our customers around the world as well as strong demand
for our products and drive technologies in all their diversity. We delivered 1.9 million BMW, MINI
and Rolls-Royce vehicles to customers in the first nine months of the year as well as 156,000
BMW motorcycles and scooters. This represents an increase of 18% and 21% respectively above
the previous year. BMW once again gained market share and captured 3.4% of the global market
as a premium manufacturer.
We were also able to expand our strong competitive position in key markets such as the United
States of America and China. BMW leads the premium segment in numerous countries. In
addition to China and the U.S., this is also the case in Mexico, Brazil and other markets in South
America, as well as South Africa and several European countries including our domestic market of
Germany. This shows that we are maintaining our successful business development and we can
therefore confirm our adjusted guidance for 2021. Our profitability is ultimately a means to an
end. In this way, we are now laying the foundation for continued investment in relevant future
areas of activity. More than half of our investments go into future fields of activity. As a global
company, we have a responsibility to ensure the BMW Group's business model is viable in the
long-term and under all possible conditions. On the one hand, this means we have to approach
the short-term changes in our environment with flexibility, but also consistently. At the same time,
we continue to follow our strategic direction in line with our long-term goals and are making the
necessary decisions.
I would like to discuss with you these two perspectives in more detail today. What are we focused
on right now and how are we setting ourselves up for the years after 2025? Now, directly to the
first point. This year we demonstrated once again that we are capable of overcoming difficult
situations. This applies equally to the lingering effects of the coronavirus pandemic as well as to
the current situation with semiconductor supplies. Our divisions purchasing development and
production as well as sales and marketing are working together very closely on this and
exhausting all possibilities. Our stable and trustful relationships with suppliers worldwide also
means that we have so far been able to cushion the impact for our customers better than many
of our competitors. Not only all our brand, but also all major regions of the world saw significant
growth until September.
Europe more than 10%, Asia almost 20%, the Americas over 30%, other markets grew by almost
30%. As expected and as previously announced, the sales momentum for our electrified vehicles
is particularly strong. Our deliveries of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids doubled between
January and September compared to the previous year. Our best sales were even 120% higher
year-on-year. E-mobility has fully arrived in our everyday lives. However, the charging infrastructure
isn't keeping up. Here in Germany and all across Europe, it needs to be expanded swiftly and
noticeably while also being binding and ambitious. I'm also advocating for this as ACEA President.
The growth of electric cars already exceeds the growth of current charging capacity in Germany
by a factor of fine. Many EU countries still don't have a charging network at all. Without the
Korean's net framework no technology can be implemented or become widely accepted. This
applies to both e-mobility and hydrogen. A further fundamental requirement is that our
customers are already enthusiastic about e-drive today and we can state that we are on the right
track here. To quote a recent headline, the best for serious is electric. The new BMW i4 is getting
a lot of praise like this. Some of you have already proven it and we're impressed. This is how we
create desirability. We are building the new i4 at our own plant right here below our headquarter
and this is where the change is most visible.We are gradually relocating our engine production to other sites without cutting jobs. Instead an
assembly plant for electric cars is being build on the same side. This gets us moving with swiftly
and quickly. By 2023 at least half of all the vehicles from plant Munich will have an electrified high
drivetrain and the overwhelming majority of them fully electric. With its new vehicle assembly, the
plant will also be able to produce up to 100% best from 2026 onwards. That is how systemic
transformation works. Starting this month, the i4 and the iX will also be available alongside our
electric pioneers, the BMW i3, our successful urban models in MINI SE and the BMW iX3, which is
built in China and then over the next two years, these will be joined by fully electric versions of
the high volume BMW 5 series and X1 as well as next year the 7 series.
What this means for our customers is that by 2023, we will have at least one fully electric model
in about 90% of our current market segments. So our customers will be able to choose.
Nevertheless, we still have a long way to go until all our customers in all countries around the
world are able to rely solely on electric driving, but when it comes to climate protection every
single gram of CO2 we can't avoid to day counts. That is why we need competition between
technologies. In the interest of customers and policy, anything else would put us on a
consolidation of course.
Now, let's move on to my second point, how are we setting ourselves up for the years after
2025? We see technological change as a tremendous opportunity to strengthen our business
model for the long-term. Technology can protect climate. We are systematically gearing the BMW
Group towers climate neutrality. What does that include? First, continue to ramp up e-mobility for
all our brands. MINI and Rolls-Royce will be exclusively all-electric from the early 2030s. We would
be taking our core BMW brand into a new fully electric dimension with a new [ph] cluster from
2025 onwards. The same applies to the digital experience of mobility for our customers. Second,
our strong commitment to climate neutral mobility. To achieve this, we've again tightened our
officious sustainability goals for the supply chain production and the use phase. And thirdly, our
focus is on the circular economy. We showed what this looks like in practice at the IAA mobility
here in Munich.
We have received extremely positive feedback worldwide on the BMW i Vision Circular. It is made
of 100% recycled material and is itself 100% recyclable and we don't just make announcements.
We let our actions speak for themselves. For the new [ph] cluster, for example, we are sourcing
green steel manufactured using hydrogen and green power from Swedish -- from the Swedish
startup H2 Green Steel. In this way, we can drastically reduce CO2 emissions from the very
beginning of the supply chain. The real question after all is what is the vehicle's overall carbon
footprint throughout its lifecycle from the use of raw materials to industrial manufacturing and
active use, all the way to recycling. The credibility of this is measured by whether concrete action
can be verified at the end. That is while the BMW Group became the first German automotive
manufacturer to join the business ambition for 1.5 degrees. This entails the commitment to
climate neutrality by 2015.
Furthermore, the BMW Group will gradually increase the percentage of secondary material it uses
in its vehicles from 32% to up to 50% in all sectors. Sustainability and digitalization have long been
closely linked and that is precisely why we have established together with other partners the
industrial flagship project Catena-X which we now seek to strengthen further. Catena-X creates
transparency from small suppliers to OEMs.This is cross-sectoral connectivity is a real advantage
for Europe as a manufacturing location. Today's motor vehicles are already shaped largely by
software. With research and development activities at 10 locations worldwide, our own and also
at our joint ventures, we have a total of around 10,000 IT and software specialists working on
digitalization of vehicles.We have been moving forward with connectivity in our vehicles for more than two decades and
we see this again right now. By the end of this year, the BMW Group would have the world's
largest fleet of vehicles with over-the-air updates and upgrade capabilities on the roads. Our
remote software upgrade benefits our customers directly. Their vehicle is not only always up-to-
date. It also keeps on getting better because we can access every line of programming code in
the vehicle. Standardization is key to the digitalization of cars. In this process, we are working with
tech players Tesla, Apple, Amazon, Tencent, Google and Intel while still competing with them at
the same time. I see this less as a clash between OEM and tech ions and more as an expression
of the market reality in the digital age and a way to guarantee further progress.
Ladies and gentlemen, in a multi-layer transformation process, employees are meaningful
seismograph providing a valuable indication of the state of a company. The results of our
employee survey in October show our team really sees the transformation as an opportunity. We
have the right balance of disruption and stability and we consistently combine, change and
responsibility. We're finding solutions and moving fast and taking our people along with us. This is
how the BMW group will remain on course for long-term success by being profitable, innovative
and responsible. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for questions.
Please wait for some technical advice.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) And the first question is from the `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane, Exane. Your line is
now open.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane `
Hi, guys. It's `Dorothee Cresswell, Exane from Exane. Thank you for taking my question. My first one is
around the raw material supply for batteries, so cobalt, lithium and nickel. We've recently seen
costs for those materials spike and there was also concern that we could run into real supply
bottlenecks in the not too distant future. So, how concerned are you in terms of what that means
to your BEV profitability assumption? And are you worried that supply shortages could put your
BEV growth targets at risk?
I have one more question around your BEV production plan. So I think among your German peers
you've provided no details on which electric products were localized in the U.S.? And I'm just
wondering whether that's because your electric SUV needs a fully covered by capacity in
Germany and China? Or should we expect you to announce the production of a BEV X Model in
Spartanburg in the near future? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Dorothee. I think we start with Nicolas and then for the production plans,
Oliver. Nicolas, please go ahead.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `First of all, Dorothee, as you can imagine, we are following the topic of development of
commodity prices extremely closely, and if you reflect on the last quarter Q3 and compare it to
Q3 2020, we have been able to offset by operational strength, and negative impact in the low
three digit million area coming from commodity prices, and we are offsetting this by in particular
an improvement in mix and pricing, and of course sale of used off lease vehicles. And if you look,
because your topic is not only focusing on the short term and we have plans for '22 as you can
imagine as well, but it's even more mid and long-term oriented, and this is why the issue which
was addressed by Oliver circularity is so extremely important, to become less impacted by
fluctuation of raw material prices, it's extremely relevant and important is why we work very hard
in research and development and procurement to -- we use to recycle step by step, even more
materials and not only sell material. But as this is related to all components of the car. And Oliver
mentioned one important example, being also the steel topic.
To your second question Dorothee, that we have a global production network with large
footprints in Germany, of course, we've just said that we are rebuilding the Munich factory and
the Dingolfing factory. The actual roll-out of electro mobility depends on the launches of the cars
and with our life cycles of some seven years, overtime there will also be pure best in the United
States, which is still our biggest plant in Spartanburg. But of course, that depends on the actual
launch of the vehicle. So, yes, overtime there will also be electric cars, but it's too early to tell the
exact date.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Good. Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
The next question from `Kai Mueller, Barclays, Barclays. Your line is now open.
Q - `Kai Mueller, Barclays `
Thank you very much for taking my question. And first question really regarding your pricing and
mix. We saw a pretty good development on your revenues despite of course, weaker volumes
yet some of your peers seem to have been increasing prices even more aggressively. Can you
give us a sense in terms of how you balance internally, your pricing versus volumes? And would
you be willing to sell a fewer cars at higher price points?
The second question was really around your dividend policy, you've traditionally paid out about a
third of your net income, should anything change when we think about now the one off book
gains you've had of course related to the revision of the provisions as well as the pension? And
how do we need to think about it once you have your book gain next year from your Chinese
acquisition?
And thirdly is just on your order intake on the i4 and iX and thanks again for organizing this driving
event which was excellent. How they been they've been trending so far and I remember there
were difficulties actually sourcing the battery sourcing supply to demand -- to meet the increased
demand. Could you give us an update on that as well?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Okay, Kai, thank you very much. We start with Oliver and about the iX and the i4. And then
Nicolas. Oliver, please?A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you for your question Kai, and also thank you for participating our price event. The
order intake for the i4 and the iX like was at very high, we have a big production list and this will
lead well into the next year already. So, we are very happy about, but the current success of
these two cars. About six months, we announced that we almost doubled our sourcing for our
batteries from some over EUR11 billion to over EUR22 billion. And that is of course, gives us the
possibility to follow this market demand. And there is no specific update on that, we are
preparing for a swift ramp up for more than a 100% in the year '22, compared to the current year.
So we are prepared to fold the market demand.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Kai, first your question about pricing mix development. As you can imagine, we are following
extremely closely what our competitors are doing in terms of pricing and list pricing, and to be
very straightforward. I do not know one of our competitors having been more aggressive in terms
of pricing. I know one in particular in the EV area, who has reduced in quite a substantial way
prices in China, in particular. So, and this brings me to the balance between volume and pricing.
It's not the one on the other, you have to have and this is exactly what we've developed a very
clear roadmap. What do you want to earn by segment and by market, because as you can
imagine, you also to currency fluctuations profitability is different in varying from market-to-
market.
And we have a very clear system in place to manage this in a very consistent bent with and this is
why I've already mentioned in our conference this morning with media representatives that our
improvement in terms of pricing and price realization and profitability started before the corona
and COVID impact do exactly to those improved processes. Talking about dividend policy, we
have a clear dividend policy which means between 30% and 40% of profit being distributed to
our shareholders, and from today's perspective, there is no reason to change our policy.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Gabriel Adler, Citigroup with Citi. Your line is now open.
Q - `Gabriel Adler, Citigroup `
Good afternoon. This is Gabriel from Citi. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got three please.
My first is on semiconductors, it's very clear you mentioned that BMW is done very well this year
compared to peers in managing semiconductor availability. And it looks like that continued in
October from the latest European registrations data. Can you just help us understand, maybe
how much of this is because you canceled fewer orders when the crisis first emerge. And how
much of it relates to managing your supply chain differently to peers to read the crisis? And then
my second question is also on pricing, but slightly different. Can you maybe help us understand
how much of the price benefit that you've seen in the auto business was coming from used cars. I
understand the profit-sharing agreement means that both auto and think I will benefit from
remarketing. That it would be really helpful to get some more color on the rough split here? And
how much used cars specifically supported also margins in Q3 part? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & GovernmentalYes, thank you very much Gabriel. Your questions will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Gabriel, let's start with your second question if you look and we are talking about the third quarter
and compare the third quarter '21 to '20. '20 we had on one hand side a negative impact from
volume development in the area of EUR0.5 billion and then we had an positive impact from
pricing, which was slightly higher than EUR0.5 billion, so that's really pricing, and then another 0.5
billion coming from the -- we sell or the better pricing in used cars overall, the balance between
both FX pricing on one hand side and used car pricing on the other hand side was pretty well
balanced.
Regarding semiconductors you addressing, I think exactly the two relevant topics. On the one
hand side, we have been already at a very early stage last year in the third and fourth quarter,
very transparent with our suppliers, what we expect. What we anticipate in terms of volume in '21.
And if I look at the outcome and incoming all this -- our planning was pretty accurate, I have to
say, and the other element is of course, that and I can't judge what others are doing, but what I
can tell you is that our team is really working, and I am not exaggerating day and night to discuss
and with our suppliers around the world to optimize and to find solution even for difficult
situations and in -- on top in a very not only the procurement department, but as you can imagine
also our production colleagues involved in this, and we have also I have to say very agile and
flexible sales organization, which has been able to discuss in a very transparent way, the
semiconductor situation with our customers having placed orders.
So all these together, I think ends up in a result and you're absolutely right, October was not bad
definitely not bad was and again and months in which we've seen our business developing
slightly better than to be honest, and we've anticipated. And this has to do with this operational
performance Oliver and myself addressed already.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from (inaudible). Your line is now open.
Q - Analyst
Yes, good afternoon, everyone . Two questions please. First one Nicolas please on the cash flow
performance. BMW delivered 6.3 billion free cash flow, if not more, excluding the cartel fine, and
if I see it correct, you haven't even received the dividend from China so far this year. And I think
you also not expecting a dividend in the fourth quarter from China this year. Can you just confirm
that that's the right way to look at your free cash flow performance, if you finish with a free cash
flow of EUR7 billion to EUR8 billion for the full-year. That's basically excluding any dividends from
China? And secondly for Oliver, very interesting comments again on the importance of holistic
emission assessment across the entire value chain. With that context, it will be extremely
important in my eyes, not just to talk about full battery electric vehicles and starving importance
of eyes, but also to discuss really smart future hybrid powertrains, which the public just has
stopped completely to discuss. Can you just update us, what you're thinking about hybrid
powertrains is in the future the importance, the relevance and yes that would really be helpful?
Thank you very much.A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Okay, thank you very much. And for your -- for the two questions. Okay, we start with the cash
flow question with Nicolas, and then Oliver.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
And you are -- of course you and -- our guidance it's around EUR6.5 billion and my team has
prepared me all explanations why around EUR6.5 billion is absolutely correct, on one hand side
we have additional investment and then we have as you can imagine we have more tax payments
in '21 due to the improvement in results, and you are -- light also to refer to the fact that our year-
to-date number does not include any dividends from China. Having said this, I would be
disappointed if we would not be that EUR6.5 billion being at 6.3 and something billion euros at
this point in time.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, on the -- this is Oliver speaking. Thank you for your question about the price trend, and the
peer specifically. As we already said, for us, all five drivetrains are of high importance for our
future set up. That's the diesel, the autos the best that pay us and also the hydrogen. And talking
about hybrids, you must not forget that in preparation for EU-7, the normal combustion engines
become 48 volt engines, which are called mild hybrids. So more or less over time all classical
combustion engines will be electrified. It starts already next year with a next big ramp-up of the
second generation of 48 volt engine.
And on top we have, of course the high-voltage PFs [ph] and we think they have still a place in
the marketplace. They have been growing this year, because they're very attractive customer
offers for our customers specifically in Europe, but also in China. And there's currently no
regulation who takes them out of the market. And I think for the customer, this is one of the best
offers at least for this decade until the early 2030s where we can bridge the way into full
electrification for some of our customers. And on top, a lot of high performance vehicle you will
see, they have high performance plug-in hybrids. And the high-performance segments will be
fully electrified or half electrified in the next coming years. So to answer your question, there's a
solid place for plug-in hybrids in the BMW portfolio, yes.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much and next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, UBS, UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
Thank you very much. It's Patrick from UBS. Also two questions from my side. First one for Oliver
and sorry to come back to benchmarking versus Tesla. But, you delivered an 8% EBIT margin in
the third quarter. Tesla is making now a 14% clean EBIT margin and even a 29% gross margin, you
are at 8% EBIT and 19% gross margin. And I assume the EVs are a little bit below average of thethinking about how BMW will ever close this gap in terms of margins to Tesla. I just don't have a
smart answer. So what is your master plan, that's the essence of the question in particular in light
of tightening raw material supplies, battery prices going up? Is there any perspective for BMW to
make margins in the teens for the battery electric cars, if Tesla is so much ahead?
And the second question is a little bit more near term and maybe that's for Nicolas. I'm just
thinking about the margins going into 2022, and I'm not asking for any specific guidance, but
bearing in mind the EV share will be growing year-over-year, we'll probably see still some
commodity headwinds in the first half, and at the same time some volume growth, which will be a
tailwind. Is there anything on the positive side for a further margin expansion, and I leave the
consolidation of the China joint venture site, that's a simple accounting thing, but really in terms
of the underlying margins going into next year. Is there any significant additional tailwind, we
should be aware of? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Patrick, then we start with Oliver and then Nicolas. Yes, Oliver, please?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Patrick good, good question. I don't see that big difference between these performance of BMW
and its competitors, if you look at the whole year performance, we're equally growing by 10,000
or 20,000 vehicles. We address and that's maybe a thing we should also consider. We are
addressing the whole world market with five drivetrains. Other competitors look only and they act
as only one fast growing market segment.
Of course, that is working currently very well. But as we see the market blaze with some 90
million vehicles, even if pure EVs grow faster and they will grow faster for the next decade, surely.
But we consider it a competitive advantage to be able to address the whole world market in all
regions, and all markets in the world. So that is for all. And I think our results year-to-date, I don't
see that big difference you were talking about in terms of profitability over the year that I think
quite comparable and we don't have a strategy to go away from our path of very good
transaction price control. And we also want to grow our market share.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
And Patrick and I think if we focus on '22 and you rightly said, this is not the point in time to give an
precise guidance for the full year, but as we speak today we will we see some headwinds from
commodity prices. We definitely thanks to Oliver and as always positive and more challenging
side. Our demands in terms of all electric cars is extremely high. Oliver mentioned this morning
that we will grow by a 100% in '22 compared to 2021.
So those are the -- what I would call the major headwinds that we are expecting. On the tailwind
side, we have probably from today's perspective, some positive effects from FX. So raw material
plus FX will not be as negative if you compare to -- if you look only from an raw material
perspective, we expect of course, as we achieved in the last year some positive effects from our
performance program to be delivered. And you rightly said, we are planning to grown in a -- to
grow further in a very profitable way, in a very profitable way and this is what I've already
mentioned a couple of minutes ago, we have a clear plan even call it a master plan region by
region, how we want -- at the same time to maintain an high level of profitability per unit, while at
the same time, exploit the market potential in an even better way. So this is making us confident
that even if it's too early to give them guidance, that '22 will be another good year for the BMW
group.Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
Thanks, Nicolas, thanks Oliver.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you, Patrick, next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Yes, `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan from JPMorgan, couple of questions please. Oliver, can you comment
please on the merits of Giga casting? If you think this could be an opportunity for you specifically
in the compact segment? And then second in terms of all of your updates. I love to hear your
thoughts on the three, four year view, some may be practical examples of what do you think you
can invoice on this over the updates going forward, maybe with the -- within our classic [ph].
And Dr.Pieter one question please for you on financial services. I'm looking at your earnings and
they are amazing. Did you notice to say the least, and I think this applies also to the whole
industry. So it's not just a question on BMW, it relates to the industry. I love to get your expertise
here in the business. As we look at the next sort of two, three years, are we entering a phase
where financial services is going to be generating lower returns? And I'm just a little bit conscious
of this mix between financial services and industrial business? Or maybe we're going to have a
shortfall in financial services or normalization of earnings in the next three years and an
improvement still in industrial business. And I love to get your thoughts, because I don't think, we
never seen this cycle going back 15 years, where financial services makes twice the money versus
the previous cycle? And now we probably entering this phase of a slowdown. Are we entering a
phase of slow down? Or am I wrong? Are there any other levers you can pull to maintain that
profitability? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Jose, could you could you repeat your first question. We don't understand it fully. Do you speak
about gigafactory or what was your question? Your first question.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Giga casting, so basically whether you see an opportunity --
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
What do you mean with gigafactory? What do you mean by giga casting?
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Casting, so where you are able to basically cast larger components within the podium white or
the structure of the vehicle, allowing you to save fixed cost investments in robot assembly, et
cetera?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & GovernmentalA - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we wouldn't call that giga casting, it's a normal casting process, like you can use in our
vehicles. For us there's no economic reason to have very large integrated parts in this vehicles. As
you know our lightweight bodies also contain casting components, but to increase them to a very
large extent as a substantial remedies, which we don't want, especially reparability cost. We
considered as them as too expensive and the partially lower manufacturing cost is
overcompensated by casting cost. So this is not in that very large component strategy, we will not
do that. We see much more efficient ways to build a car body.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Jose, talking about our (inaudible) business, financial services. You're absolutely right, results in '21
are extremely strong and this has of course to do with a couple of effects. On one hand side, we
have thanks to our very strong rating, second best in the industry, best of all European OEMs, we
have also relatively to our peers low refinancing costs. We have -- if you look at our credit
management, and I've already addressed with little value if we have still a very -- also it from an
historical perspective, strong performance in terms of credit risk and I've already addressed the
topic of residual value.
The development, is this a new normal as what we experienced today most likely not, but am I
optimistic that we will be able to stick to our long-term strategic targets, definitely yes. And we
have developed plans together between our sales organization and our financial services
organization, and the dealer organizations in the most important market to implement an
strategy, which will support -- and strong pricing and based on this strong pricing, strong residual
values also in the future that's clearly an ambition we have. And something we've developed and
are implementing market-by-market.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Okay. Thank you very much. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Henning Cosman, HSBC, HSBC. Your line is now open.
Q - `Henning Cosman, HSBC `
Yes, hi, good afternoon, thank you for taking the question. Oliver I really liked what you said about
the technological changes and opportunity for sustainable business model, I think for say us just
now as well, but could you maybe update us on the over-the-air revenue and give it opportunity,
are there some target years that you could share and the EBIT pool that you expect for
yourselves? And maybe we can also talk about your 3 million unit targeting in 2030 and the way
that you're looking to generate your EBIT. Do you still envisage that you make the same or more
EBIT per vehicle in the automotive segment? Or could you talk about whether you may be
prepared to take a little bit less at the point-of-sale initially, but then take more over subscription
on demand. So the sales later on in the life cycle?
And if I can squeeze a third, maybe you can just update us, if you're still planning to give us more
details about the China JV consolidation. I believe Nicolas had indicated that we could have an
event like this in December. Are you still planning on doing this, and if so when would there be?
Thank you very much.A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Yes. Thank you very much, Henning. We start with Oliver and then Nicolas. Yes.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Henning, thank you very much. This isn't really important question, because the over-the-air
update capability opened new business opportunities. Not only in terms of revenue, but serving
our customers, quality updates, updates over the life cycle of seven years. And of course,
creating revenue, what we already announced, and that is quite solid and for the whole digital
rearm of what is in the vehicle including that, that is already provided with the customers at the
point-of-sale plus the revenue we get from over the year updates. We intend to make EUR5
billion revenue in that. And it's quite difficult to say what is what, but that whole over the year
update capability creates a new opportunity, which is really important to us. And that is what we
really want to expand.
The second question was regarding, if I understood you right, the 3 million car target we have.
The current year gives us more confidence that is an achievable targets, specifically because we
have the technological capability. Let's talk about EU 7. Let's talk about expansion of EVs. Let's talk
five drivetrains we offer and being a global company. So we are quite confident without risking
our cost of retail quality we achieved, we're confident that we can reach that.
Q - `Henning Cosman, HSBC `
Sorry, if I can just clarify Oliver, if you don't mind, it was more about -- less about the 3 million unit
target itself, but more about the EBIT per unit. Are you envisaging to make the same and more
EBIT per unit in 2030 and digital revenue opportunity or EBIT opportunity to come on top of that.
Or could you envisage to take less EBIT per unit eventually, because you'll be more confident to
take more over the lifetime of the vehicle. So, GM, for example they have suggested that at
Capital Markets Day they would be quite aggressive to put a large fleet in the marketplace and
have a larger revenue opportunity down the line?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Henning from our perspective to be very straightforward, this is little bit theoretical. We are in '21,
how exactly this will develop till 2030? To be honest, I believe nobody knows exactly to which
share -- the one or the other will prevail. What is important? And this is where the BMW Group is
in the lead. We have the highest number of cars already today in the market, which can be
updated over the year. We have the first not only pilots, it's already the business has started.
And the number one challenge, the whole industry's is facing and we are confident that we are
able to manage this transformation is to stick to our 8% to 10% target, despite all the headwinds
we have from transformation in particular electrification of the industry, and I think so far '21 is a
good example, because we've grown also this year our EV and plug-in hybrid chain quite as
impressive way we are planning even more if you look till '25 and this is our number one target.
And if a customer prefers to buy an option, he will be able to buy the option when he buys a car,
and if he prefers to go more from over the update solution later in the life cycle, he will be able --
and he's already in some areas able to do it as we as we speak.
Coming to your second point, China joint venture. Our BBA roadmap is unchanged and we are
really on course with taking all technical steps, which are required to effect a transfer of the
additional interest in BBAs equity early next year as planned. And as a result, BBA will be fully
consolidated into the BMW Group financial statement, and we will decide in the coming weeks.What exactly is the appropriate timing later this year, earlier next year to have such an more in
depth analysis together with you. If you have very, very specific question, of course we are --
Henning, we are more than happy to discuss this in the coming weeks, just call us.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
So ladies and gentlemen, it is three o'clock, but we have time for two. So who would like to start
with the first additional question?
Operator
The next question is from Philip (inaudible), Jefferies. Your line is now open.
Q - Analyst
Yes. Good afternoon, and thank you for taking my questions. I wanted to go into the topic of
direct selling. I think BMW was early in experimenting direct selling in South Africa. More recently,
we heard more from your competitors also again Mercedes about the topic, and I would just
wanted to get a refresher on where you -- how you see the industry evolving in terms of
replacing the agency model with more direct selling with the timeframe would be? And what your
ambitions are? And if I can follow-up on to that and thinking about your business model where
you sell more directly relying less on dealers. When I look at your group balance sheet today,
you've got some inventory on your industrial balance sheet, but a lot of inventory finance for
dealers through the dealer receivables. Am I being too optimistic and thinking that, world of
direct selling you could potentially have better margins. But also you could have a significantly
smaller balance sheet. If I look at the total throughout [ph] your balance sheet, not Upku and
Sinku [ph] combined, or am I being too optimistic? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Okay. Thank you very much. Nicolas please start.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Philip, first of all and maybe some comments regarding the direct sales model in South Africa.
We've kicked off this pilot project back in 2019, and it's running very, very successfully and it not
only has improved our business case, but also our -- they are not either in the agent business
case, so both are benefiting. And this is why we are motivated to roll this out as this concept in
other markets and regions. And if you look from a geographical perspective, of course, you have
might be as a most relevant region to implement such a system, but it will not be a -- to be very
clear it will not be black and white, because we believe in retail, in particularly in Europe, it will
continue to be a multi-channel business, you have already today, you have markets like the UK or
like the Netherlands where you have a high share already today of between 40% and 50% of
direct sales or take a market like Austria this has to do with the relevance of corporate and fleet
at business.
What is I believe, even more relevant and important is to further enhance and develop your
digital capabilities, and this is something we are doing in a very, very systematic way by enhancing
our and our dealer partners webpage. So, this is the further development of the retail business,
in terms of digitalization plays a key role in our strategy moving forward. Your analysis is in a
certain way right regarding your second topic. We see it already this year. We've managed
inventories in an very systematic, and I believe, good and strong manner, which resulted in the
situation where if you look at the share of and the amount financed in our FinCo business with ourdealer partners, it went down. It went down because they simply less stock in the dealer
organization.
And this, by the way, help to improve profitability as well in the FinCo business, because if you
look at financing customers leasing and financing dealers, the less profitable one of the three
pillars is the dealer financing. So as we continue to believe that low inventories is something we
should aim for, we will definitely try to -- in '22 and beyond to further enhance and improve this
approach. And this means our already strong balance sheet, could even become stronger.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Good. Thank you very much. Philip, now we come to our last question.
Operator
The last question `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Yes. Thank you very much Oliver, Nicolas, and Max. I'd like to follow up on something you said
earlier, Nicolas. And I have to say, I mean we know each other now for quite a while and you saw
an almost bullish on 2022 by your standards at this time around the year. So if you are so
confident, and you also very confident cash flow as you just answer to answer question. Would
you roll out this further cash returns to shareholders beyond just an anyway already where you
chose the dividend that is to be expected?
And then secondly, Oliver, I'd like to follow-up on something that you said earlier, because I
received quite a few irritated remarks to that from investors. Clearly is a big difference in the
performance between BMW and Tesla. And you probably referenced someone else when you
said there isn't really such a big difference, that's true for margins as it is for deliveries. Coming
back to Patrick's question, do you have something like a master plan to address this? Or do you
see the stock price reaction like we observed it over the last two days is just Capital Market
madness and tend to acknowledge? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Good. We start with Nicolas, and then the Tesla master plan, and the right question from our
German.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
I guess you already imagine what I will answer. We will -- as I said earlier, we will stick to our
dividend policy 30% to 40% to be paid out. And if something different would be decided we
would of course inform you immediately, but that's not as we speak on our agenda. Yet, we have
some operational topics to be addressed in the coming weeks and moving into '22, but we are
aware that we have a very strong balance sheet.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Tim regarding your question, I think there's a capital market perspective, and I can only simply say
and you all know that there's no way to copy Tesla's plan or what is happening in the capital
market, you mentioned that in your analysis, and so on, I can only tell you the BMW master plan
and we have said so a couple of times, we are rapidly increasing our best share.This year more than 100% compared to the previous year, next year again more than 100%, 50%
every year until 2025 and that will lead to over 50% better share worldwide in our product
portfolio and in Europe, that could be more than 50% of course. What is our strength here? The
strength is that with our product set up we are covering 100% of the market. And I think that will
come overtime as a strength, despite the fact that some competitors might grow quicker
percentage wise. They might also do so with fewer with your derivatives. But we reconsider its a
strength to have the full marketplace under control and there is no amendment to our current
strategy, because as this year shows, we are on the right track, under conditions we can control.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Good. Thank you very much, Nicolas. Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, thank
you very much for joining us today. We wish you a pleasant day from Munich and please stay
healthy. Bye-bye .