S1 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you everyone for joining us despite your busy schedules. We'll now like to begin Toyota
Motor Corporation's FY 2022 Second Quarter Financial Results Press Briefing. Starting by
introducing our presenters today. Chief Financial Officer, `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp &; Chief Communications
Officer, `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer.
So now I'll like to begin by having our CFO, Mr.Kon explain about the financial results.
`Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp &. We would like to express our heartfelt appreciation
to all of our stakeholders including customers around the world who chose us as well as our
shareholders, dealers, and suppliers who support us.
We sincerely apologize for the inconvenience caused to our customers due to the recent
production volume reduction. We are working as soon as possible. Thank you for your
understanding.
I would like to provide a summary of the second quarter of this fiscal year. The semiconductor
shortage and spread of COVID-19 in some developing countries caused us to reduce our
production volume globally, but our suppliers, plants, and dealers made great efforts to supply as
many cars to our customers as possible. Our results for the first half of the fiscal year reflect our
enhanced cost reduction activities and efforts to make more efficient use of fixed costs while
enhancing the product appeal by making ever-better cars and investing for growth. We have also
benefited from the tightening supply and high demand in the new car market, as this has led to
higher used car prices and allowed us to decrease the quantum of incentives. We believe these
factors have made our results in certain respects to be robust beyond our underlying strength.
Even though we have revised our operating income forecast upwards, excluding the impact of
the depreciation of the yen, it would be in substance a downward revision due to increases in raw
material costs. We will keep improving our operation to standardize what we have learned from
COVID-19. In terms of our return to shareholders, the interim ordinary dividend is 120 yen pershare, an increase of JPY15 compared to the previous fiscal year. We have also decided to
conduct a repurchase of up to JPY100 billion of our common stock.
Let me discuss our financial results for the first half ended September 2021. Consolidated vehicle
sales for the period was at 4.94 million units, which was 132.7% of consolidated vehicle sales for
the first half of the previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales was at 4.852 million
units, which was 121.0% of such sales for the first half of the previous fiscal year. The ratio of
electrified vehicles was 27.7%.
Consolidated financial results for the first half of this fiscal year were sales revenues of
JPY15,481.2 billion, operating income of JPY1,747.4 billion, income before income taxes of
JPY2,144.0 billion, and net income of JPY1,524.4 billion.
I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year on year. First, the effects
of foreign exchange rates increased operating income by JPY255 billion. Second, cost reduction
efforts decreased operating income by JPY30 billion due to the impact of soaring material prices.
Third, marketing efforts increased operating income by JPY1.55 trillion, largely due to the increase
in sales volume and improved earnings in the financial services business. Finally, a reduction in
expenses increased operating income by JPY10 billion. As a result, excluding the overall impact of
foreign exchange rates, swap valuation gains, and losses, and other factors, operating income
increased by JPY1.35 trillion year on year.
Next, I will explain operating income for each region. As shown, operating income increased year
on year in all regions, largely due to the increase in sales volume. As for our China business, the
operating income of consolidated subsidiaries and our share of profit of investments accounted
for using the equity method increased due to the impact of foreign exchange rates. Regarding
Financial Services, operating income excluding swap valuation gains and losses for the fiscal year
increased year on year, mainly due to the increase in the lending balance and margins.
Next, I would like to explain our return to shareholders. Based on the business results for the first
half of this fiscal year, we decided to pay an interim dividend of 120 yen per share, an increase of
JPY15 compared to the previous fiscal year. We intend to continue to maintain and improve the
consolidated dividend payout ratio over the mid to long term, as well as pay dividends stably and
sustainably to reward our shareholders who hold our shares over the mid to long term. In
addition, we will repurchase up to JPY150 billion of our own shares for the current interim period,
taking into consideration factors such as investment in growth and dividend levels.
Next, I will explain the forecasts for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2022. Consolidated vehicle
sales is expected to be 8.55 million units, which is 98.3% of the previous forecasts. Regional sales
breakdown is as stated in the presentation. As for Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales, we
anticipate that vehicle sales will be 9.4 million units, which is 97.9% of the previous forecasts.
Next, let me explain the forecasts for the full-year consolidated financial performance. We have
adopted ForEx-rate assumptions for October onwards of 110 yen per dollar and 125 yen per euro,
which makes the full year assumptions 110 yen per dollar and 128 yen per euro. Based on this, our
forecasts for full-year consolidated financial performance are sales revenues of JPY30 trillion,
operating income of JPY2,800 billion, income before income taxes of JPY3,440 billion, and net
income of JPY2,490 billion.
Next, I would like to explain the factors that impact operating income year on year, compared to
the previous forecast. The operating income forecast has been revised upward by JPY300 billion
from the previous forecast, taking into account the increase in operating income due to therevision of FX assumptions reflecting the weaker yen and the decrease in operating income due
to the increase in raw material costs.
The factors that will impact operating income compared to the same period of previous fiscal
year are as shown in the presentation. Although we continue to face unpredictable conditions
with regard to the stabilization of supply, as well as issues such as the sharp rise in raw material
costs, we will continue to work towards the future and establish the lessons learned from the
COVID-19 crisis.
Thank you for your attention.
Operator
We will now like to begin the Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
We'll now like to begin the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) Please allow us to limit you to
two questions per person. Thank you for your cooperation. Mr.Katori from Yomiuri Newspapers,
please. (Operator Instructions) And Mr.Katori, can you begin with your question?
Q - `Naotake Katori, Yomiuri Newspapers
This is Katori speaking from Yomiuri Newspapers. I have two questions. First of all, this ended first
half performance, I'd like to hear your assessment and summary, especially the operating income.
Maybe there has been some changes, but I do think that it's the record high from the past history.
So for the factors that contributed to that and also for the large vehicle size performing very well,
the sale -- very well new car sales. I'd like to hear about the factors that contributed. And
especially, I'd like to ask about the production recovery plan. I think you've made up report about
what your plans up to November. But up to December, are you -- I think we hear that you'll be
operating on the weekends as well, including Saturdays, but still there is some impact from
COVID. So what kind of recovery plan do you have? That's my second question.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Thank you Mr.Katori for your question. So your first question was about to the assessment of the
ended first half of this term, about what were the contributing factors. And your second question
was about the production recovery plan after December. That is how I understood two questions.
Am I correct?
Q - `Naotake Katori, Yomiuri Newspapers
Yes.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
So both of those questions will be responded from our CFO, Mr.Kon.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `Thank you very much for your question. Regarding the first half, second quarter results, the
assessments, if we can look at the third page of the presentation material. Thank you. This is the
summary. And I'd like to make some additional comments on this -- in addition to this page.
So as you can see on the very top, globally, production volume has declined globally. That is how
we see the first half of this fiscal year. But in this situation, our dealers, our suppliers, our plants,
the plants worldwide, also the gemba or the operation sites, they have made great efforts to
supply as much cars as possible to the customers, without stopping the vehicle plants. If a vehicle
plant stops, there will be a huge impact to our suppliers and stakeholders. Therefore, the people
working out to the operation site has -- wanted to avoid that situation and made strong efforts.
And that has contributed largely to our results. But on the other hand, we are in fact a having
customers wait for the car delivery. So there are many challenges still that we have to work on.
And also for the sales results, even though there was limitations in production, the sales side did
not drop so significantly. Compared year-on-year, actually there was an increase. And this is
because, the dealers, they have worked -- made efforts to drop the level of inventory, also made
efficient sales activities, also have been able to work flexibly with the existing inventories. So they
have been working hard to capture the sales opportunities, have good communication with the
customers to deliver the cars as much as possible. This was also a huge contributor to the results.
And on the other hand, there were some areas of that went beyond our underlying strength. And
it might be just partially, but the new car sales is such tight in supply. And therefore, used car
prices are now at a high level. And as a result, the financial businesses, the residual value balance
has turned positively. And this is mainly a contributed by the high used car price market.
And regarding incentives, with under the current situation for all of the OEMs, it's the same
situation, but we have been able to keep the incentives low. So these kinds of environmental
aspects have contributed this will be beyond our underlying strength. However, for the market
fluctuation, the higher commodity price market -- high commodity prices is also a large impacting
factor. We are not in a situation where we can hand on these price increases to our customers.
Therefore, cost reduction, fixed cost reduction also making efforts to enhance the vehicle value.
These were the efforts made to recover the negative impact from the market fluctuation.
For the cost reduction and fixed cost reduction, there has been huge efforts made company-
wide, and this effort is continuing. Going through COVID, we don't have a feel at the point of this
time that we are returning back to the before-COVID times. So that will be a positive feeling that I
have. I'm sorry to be a lengthy -- giving you a lengthy answer, but one of the reasons why we did
not drop -- see a big drop in the sales activities is because the product appeal being enhanced.
As a foundation of our business, I think that is a large contributor, having a stronger product
appeal. TNGA was led -- started from the initiation from the President of Toyota's statements.
And those initiatives was taken product appeal strength and also to set the products in a group
or series and families, and to achieve ever better cars. And this kind of activity had contributed in
this result, I believe.
And for your second question about the production recovery, after December, we do still see
much risks there. However, for the production volume the 9 million that we have announced
today for December and January, February, March, if we operate in a full of operation, we still see
some risk in order to be able to operate fully. Therefore, it is slightly conservative this 9 million in
volume. But based on our running reproduction situation, including the Saturday operations, since
we have customers waiting as a fact, we will do whatever we can to continue the production. So
this will be my answers. I hope I have answered your question.Q - `Naotake Katori, Yomiuri Newspapers
Yes. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you, Mr.Katori, for your question. We would like to move to the next question, Mr.Kondo
from Asahi Newspaper, please. We are going to switch over the screen. So please start your
question when you see yourself on a screen. Mr.Kondo, please.
Q - `Kohei Kondo, Asahi Newspapers
My name is Kondo from Asahi Newspaper. Can you hear my voice? Can you hear my voice?
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Yes, we can.
Q - `Kohei Kondo, Asahi Newspapers
So based upon your financial results, I have a question starting with sales and operating income
and net income. I think it is a victory, historical high. And you made a revision, upward revision for
the four year. Yes, yen depreciation was a one factor, but I see wonderful numbers. And still, the
society as a whole is suffering from COVID-19. And also the auto industry, especially the small
suppliers have to deal with carbon neutrality and also face the challenge of CASE and other new
technologies. In other words, they are still struggling to turn around their profit. And I understand
your number is based upon those suppliers' numbers. How do you accept this? And what do you
think about returning those profit and also durations?
And also, your relationship with suppliers, especially with Nippon Steel, the champion negotiation
so-called is the negotiation on the steel price every half year. And at Nippon Steel, R&D
investment and development cost are being the reasons for the negotiation. So what is your
measure, and how are you going to deal with this, and what's your thoughts on this? And
especially, this litigation on this patent and you are expected to make a scientific proof on this
and how are you going -- what is your position on this litigation?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Mr.Kondo, thank you so much for your question. The first question was about our good
performance on this interim financial results. Well, number wise -- and your question was that our
numbers were based upon suppliers' numbers and what is our take on this. Well, Mr.Kon is going
to answer on this. And with regards to positions with Nippon Steel and the first question was on
the price negotiation, Nippon Steel is asking for a further price hike and what is our opinion on
this. And second is about this electromagnetic steel, what we think about this. And Nagata, myself
will answer this question later.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Yes. Regarding the first question, I would like to answer. First of all, with regards to relations with
suppliers, well, we would like to co-exist with our suppliers, so that we can reduce cost and
enhance the competitiveness together. We would like to enhance competitiveness of suppliers,
and we would like to reap the achievements fairly together. And this would also include our
customers.We have not changed this philosophy all along. For example -- yes, we do receive comments, like
the one we just received from time to time. And as I've been involved in a conversation and
dialogue with suppliers, for example, we made announcements of reducing our production
volume a couple times. And orders from Toyota has a very high certainty. And on top of that,
when there is a production volume decrease, we try to let them know as soon as possible also in
detail. And especially when there is a decline in the production volume, the parts delivered from
suppliers would also decrease. So there is some impact. But we also get opinions from suppliers
that they don't have much loss from this, because we try to reduce the costs by optimizing the
quality and also we try to deal with concerns of suppliers, and there are several thousands of
proposals from suppliers.
When I went to visit one of the supplier the other day, what I heard from them, including many
stories they share with us. For example, recently, they told us that when Toyota makes some
casual comments, for example, these components need to be visible, if we make such a whisper
of we mumble that, then the supplier would to use ink that would never disappear to clarify the
location of that part, and that could be expensive. So when our engineer goes to their site to see
that ink, the engineer would say no, no, you don't have to use this expensive ink, but you can use
a marker instead. In such ways, we are trying to enhance the competitiveness together. And as a
result, suppliers would have less concerns. Of course, we are still in the middle, so it's never
complete. But we think we are trying hard to carry out these kind of activities together, but the
fact that we are still receiving such comments from outside like this one, maybe we need to try
harder. So if you could deliver such a feedback, then we will stop and rethink and try to improve
ourselves further, please continue to give us guidance. This was my answer to the first question.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Mr.Kondo, regarding the second questions with regards to the positions with Nippon Steel.
Starting with the price negotiations, as you know, in this year, price hike was in the conversation.
This is not limited to Nippon Steel. But in the steel industry as a whole, there will be significant
investments in carbon-neutral aspects, and we are also struggling with the hike of material costs.
And we honestly understand their circumstance at Nippon Steel.
And on the other hand, as you may also be aware, we are in the B2C business. In other words,
we deliver the complete product, which is (inaudible) to customers. In other words, even when
there are price hikes, it is difficult for us to transfer those hikes directly into the consumers. That's
the nature of our industry. So, as was explained, we have to sincerely, steadily reduce cost one by
one.
In other words, with regards to price negotiation, both sides need to explain each other's
circumstance and understand each other, and then continue to sincerely negotiate how we can
set the price. And regarding the electromagnetic steel, it is, yes, a litigation right now. But there
are our 5.5 million people in this industry and then we pursue to achieve carbon neutrality in the
auto industry. Therefore, we have to try making this effort steadily and sincerely. And regarding
the litigation, I have to say that, because this is a pending case, I have to refrain from making any
further comments. That is all from myself.
Operator
Thank you very much, Mr.Kondo. We would like to move on to the next question. From NHK,
Tharuno-San, [ph] please. I will be switching the screen. When you see your face on the screen,
please ask the question. Thank you for waiting. Mr.Tharuno, please. Please unmute your mic.Q - Analyst
Excuse me, can you hear me now?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, I can hear you.
Q - Analyst
So first of all, regarding the sales volume, you have reviewed the forecast. And can you explain
about the factor why we have done the review? And hearing the results, it seems that it is
improving, but your explanation was that in substance it is a downward revision. So you are
looking at this at a very -- that it is a tough for result forecast. So can you explain also why you're
looking it from -- as a tough forecast?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
I think you have one question. So this -- the reason and also how the way of concept of this
reviewing of this production volume. And also for the, in substance, downward revision, why are
we having this kind of a tough understanding of the forecast, the reasons is what you asked? Yes.
So Mr.Kon will respond.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you for your question. Regarding the review of our sales volume. So on this slide on the
screen, you can sort of see the initial -- first initial forecast at term, it was 8.7 million for the
consolidated sales, which have been dropped 150,000 this time with the most latest forecast.
And we had some opportunities to explain this up to this day, but there are some situation where
we had to drop our production plan volume from our initial plan due to certain reasons. And I
might be repeating myself, but first of all, there's the -- in Southeast Asia mainly, COVID-19 has
had impacts. And therefore, the local production plants had to be shut down, and the part supply
had limitations. And also there were some impacts from semiconductor issues, Malaysia, Vietnam.
There were parts supply shortages. There were some months that had a drop in production
because of these impacts. So the reason of this review will be impacts from those factors.
And also about the downward revision that we are interpreting the forecast in a very tough
perspective. To explain that, for the first half results, for example, compared with last year and
two years ago, we do understand that it is a large increase in operating income. And again
repeating myself, this is really because of the strong efforts by the dealers, the suppliers and also
the people working in Toyota. There were strong efforts made so that they can deliver their
customers the vehicles as much as possible, as early as possible. And all of these efforts had
been combined to come up with these results. However, in these results, there are some areas,
there are some reasons or factors that was a contribution from the something outside of our own
strengths. So we are looking at that neutrally.
And for the full year forecast, it is actually in numbers a upward revision. But we focus on the
areas outside of the ForEx effect. And we focus on those non-ForEx impacts to make
improvements in the profit as much as possible. So that is how we explain to outside as well. And
when we focus on these non-ForEx impacts, we do see multiple challenges that we have to face.
So as much as possible, we're going to make efforts to recover and overcome these challenges
to improve as much as possible. So that effort will continue. That will be my explanation for your
question. Did I answer question?Operator
Mr.Tharuno, thank you very much.
Q - Analyst
Yes, I understood. Thank you.
Operator
So from Wall Street Journal, Mr.Sean. I'm going to switch over the screen. So please start your
question when you see yourself on a screen.
Q - `Sean McLain, Wall Street Journal `
Hi. Can you hear me?
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Yes, we can hear you.
Q - `Sean McLain, Wall Street Journal `
Great. So I was hoping to get a little more insight into your outlook for the remainder of the year
and on next year in terms of when you think sales volumes will fully rebound. Basically, when the
industry will get back to normal? What's your outlook on that? And what are the biggest
challenges to achieving that?
And then secondly, I wonder if you could talk about shortages beyond semiconductor. So we've
seen some news recently about shortages with magnesium and other parts. So basically, what
are you seeing on the horizon? What are the things that you're looking out for that could possibly
affect your recovery?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Thank you very much for your question, Sean. First of all, your question about the timing of our
recovery in the remaining year and also the overall industry's recovery, and what are the
challenges to achieve that. This the first question.
And the second question is that now semiconductors are in shortage and it is being focused. But
other than semiconductors, is there any concern and any shortage? Then we would like to -- you
would like us to make a comment on this. Mr.Kon is going to answer both questions.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you so much for your question. Starting with the first one. In the remaining period of our
fiscal year, the timing for us to completely recover. It difficult make anything certain. Of course,
risk is becoming significantly smaller. However, we're not in a stage as to say that the risk is zero. I
don't think the situation allows us to say that yet. And for semiconductors, well, there are many
factors, many things, games, and the other components. Demand has sort of stopped, so the
supply and demand balance has stabilized. But on the other hand, I think the semiconductor -- so
different from the type to type, so we have to be very cautious in looking at it.
So in December, in January, I cannot say that it will recovered to the past. I cannot say that there isare some risk of production decrease, it is going to recover quite a bit, and that is a situation.
And as for the overall industry, I cannot say anything certain about the industry. But for the
challenge, the supply of the components, if it is solved, then the OEM challenges will be solved all
of a sudden. And in that sense, the energy and the material cost, we hope that those price would
not be hiked so rapidly. And we have to also secure those materials. And that is the challenge
that we are facing at the industry. Other than the semiconductor, there is nothing that is critical at
the moment. Due to the energy shortage, some magnesium -- yes, we are hearing that there are
some shortage. However, we do not think that is a critical issue at the moment, and that's not
what we hear at the moment.
Operator
Thank you, Sean, for your question. We'd like to move on to the next question. Shiraki-San from
Reuters, [ph] please. We will switch the screen when your face is seen on the screen. Can we ask
you to start your question? Ms.Shiraki, please.
Q - Analyst
Thank you. I'm Shiraki from Reuters. And I have two questions as well. So in your consolidated
sales forecasts, the electrified vehicles volume is my question. Here also, compared with initial
forecast, there has been a slight decrease. And I might be taking it in a selfish way. But here, is it
purely about the sales trend impact? Or is it because of the semiconductor crunch and the
material price hike? Because of such a high level of material prices now, does it mean that price
pressure is more on electrified vehicles related to the inventory management issue that you said
before? Maybe are you focusing on selling more of a conventional gasoline vehicles? Will that be
a background to this revision. Gasoline price hikes is another trend that we're seeing in the
market. And so of course, from an environmental perspective, I thought that electrified vehicles
will have a higher ratio. But why is it that you dropped the ratio there too?
And next question is about not really to the performance, but under Kishida's administration,
there is a topic discussed about to review the disclosure from companies to reduce the
frequency from every quarter. And from the press, there are some concerns, but from PR side,
are functions inside the company also for the investments toward making future investments
toward human resource development and other business power plants. Some people say that
while quarterly disclosure will be too much frequent. So Toyota being a global company, what are
your thoughts regarding this quarterly disclosure? And in Europe, there are some reviews that are
being discussed, but if you have any ideas about what will be an appropriate way to be viewed
the quarterly announcements? Can you share with us?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Thank you, Shiraki, for your question. So first is for the electrified vehicles volume. It has been
downward revised from the previous forecast. So the reason is what you want to hear. And the
second question is about the disclosure announcement of the quarterly results. So there is a
discussion about reviewing this frequency and what does Toyota think about this topic? So that
both of it will be responded by Mr.Kon.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you for your questions. Starting with the electrified vehicle ratio. As you have pointed out,
slightly the ratio has dropped. But there is no significant factor to this, such as a global common
factor, that is not the case. For electrified vehicles and for example, China, China is not included inthe consolidated sales volume, but hybrid accounts for about 20% last year in China. And this
year, it has increased up to around 30% electrified vehicles in China. And therefore, globally, it
doesn't mean that we see a reduction in the ratio of electrified vehicles in the global market. So
our understanding of this change is that this is not a significant change -- difference.
Q - Analyst
It's not about the ratio, but I wanted to hear about the volume -- actual volume. So, is that the
same reason as well?
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Yes. For the forecast, we first see that a drop of 150,000 from revised downward from our initial
forecast. And it's not that we intentionally drop only electrified vehicles, honestly speaking. So it's
just looking at when we revised the most latest sales volume forecast, we have revised also in
the same ratio -- in the same way, the electrified vehicles. So this is not something that is just
focused on electrified vehicles changes. And is it okay that I answer correctly? Was there any --
did I make any misleading comments?
Q - Analyst
No, I'm fine. I understand now. Thank you.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
So for your second question about the quarterly performance announcements. Right now, I'm not
fully aware of what kind of discussions in detail is happening. But when I talk to investors and
stakeholders, it needs to be something that will be beneficial for the stakeholders and investors.
That is the way I look at the quarterly results announcements. A company has a going concern
always rather than every three months. So we're thinking about 10 years in the future, 20 years in
the future as we operate our business. I think that's a common way that a company operates.
And in the meantime, of course, we will have to -- it's very important to make the most
appropriate and timely announcements and reports. And for key matters, for important matters,
we don't -- we should not wait three months and we should make those kinds of reports and
announcements of key matters in timely way and appropriate time.
But, if the quarterly results should be announced, we have to think about -- it may cause that the
ups and downs, as seen in every quarter, may be in sync with the ups and downs of the company
value. So if it is understood in that way, probably it will not be so positive to make a quarterly
report. Therefore, together with those financial disclosures, we think that it's important to have
medias like Toyota Times and own media like Toyota Times to be able to disclose the way of
thinking of Toyota, the philosophy of Toyota, what's happening in Toyota. We think we are trying
to use the most of these owned media to explain about what is happening within Toyota, and I
think this is quite important for us. So that will be my answer to your question.
Operator
Thank you, Ms.Shiraki. We'd like to take the next question from (inaudible) Mr.Masatoshi, please.
We are going to switch the screen, so please start your question when you see yourself on the
screen. Ms.Masatoshi, please.
Q - AnalystThis is Masatoshi from (inaudible). Can you hear me? Regarding the first half results, so minus
JPY30 billion for the cost reduction effort. And I think this was impacted by the material cost
increase. So together with cost reduction benefit, can you give me the breakdown? And also,
compared with the period from January to September, the raw material price, did you change
your opinion and position on this? And that's the first question.
And the second question is that this situation -- under this situation, what kind of extra room do
you have to gain back those benefits? And what are the measures that you're going to take?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Thank you very much for your question, Ms.Masatoshi. The first question was about the impact of
the cost reduction and the breakdown of that. And also, your question was about the hike of the
material price. And the second question was about whether or not there is any more opportunity
to recover the profit? Mr.Kon is going to answer this.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you so much for your question. In the first half, the minus JPY30 billion breakdown. So the
so-called pure cost reduction excluding the market is above JPY300 billion per year being the
target for us. And because this is half year, which will be JPY150 billion. And we were little short of
this target as a result of the pure cost reduction. Conversely speaking, other than that was the
market fluctuation, little less than JPY100 billion. We were short of this target, unfortunately. This
is the cost reduction benefit, and remainder is the market.
In the second half -- one moment, please. In the second half compared with the first half, the
impact is going to be larger. On year-on-year basis, the cost reduction will be minus JPY345
billion, on Page 18 that is. The annual cost reduction is JPY300 billion. And we are also a little short
of this target. In other words and conversely speaking, remainder is the market fluctuation, little
more than JPY200 billion is the cost reduction and the remainder is the market impact. In other
words, net-net, the second half is going to be tougher, a little tougher than the first half.
And our measures to strengthen our profitability. Well, on this point, as much as possible, the FX
fluctuation should be eliminated as much as possible. In other words, we would like to turn this
number more positively by excluding those FX impact. That is the numerical aspect, but there is
no measure which can turn around the number by JPY100 billion all of the sudden. It's in the unit
of several thousands or several tens of thousands, the accumulation of small benefits. And we will
continue with those series of small methods and also value chain, including the supplies and used
cars and connected car business software. We would like to further improve the profitability of
those areas. And by doing so, we would like to improve our profitability higher, more than 200
rather than 800. [ph]
Operator
Thank you so much, Masatoshi. It is now the scheduled time. However, we'd like to take a last
question from Toyokeizai, Kigawa-San please. We will switch the screen. When you see yourself,
please start your question. Kigawa-San, please. Mr.Kigawa?
Q - `Yukinobu Kigawa, Toyokeizai
Can you hear me?
OperatorI think your microphone --
Q - `Yukinobu Kigawa, Toyokeizai
Can you hear me?
Operator
Yes. We can hear you now.
Q - `Yukinobu Kigawa, Toyokeizai
I have first question about your future plan about how you promote electrification 2030, 200
gigawatt plant operation capacity is what you explained to secure. And bZ4X was what you have
announced. And in 2025, you're going to have a North American plant established and make
investment by Toyota alone. And in the meantime, what happens in the world? Is electrification
momentum is strong -- becoming stronger? And also you need a lot of investment. You need to
have efficiency in your investments. But once again, how are you going to be taking initiatives
toward the electrification promotion.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Thank you, Mr.Kigawa, for your question. This question myself, Nagata, would respond to.
Regarding electrification, we receive a lot of questions, and we have repeatedly responded that
basically, it is about how we are going to reduce CO2 as quickly as possible, starting now. And
what Toyota has been saying is that regarding electrification, we are going to become a
department store of electrified vehicles, which in other words, means that we're going to have a
full lineup of electrified vehicles so that we can deliver it to various regions and markets,
customers all around the world, and have our customers choose what they want to use. That's
what we have been saying is our approach.
And for each region, especially the energy situation that would be supplied there and also the
fuel situation is completely completely different. Therefore in Europe, there's a lot of renewables.
So battery EVs will be good. But in other regions, there should be other options that will be most
appropriate for them, and to have the consumers, users select it. So this has always been our
approach.
And for what you have mentioned, Mr.Kigawa, regarding battery EV's, we also think that for both
quantity and cost, if the renewable energy has reduced further in terms of cost and have more
supply, then the battery EVs will be a very good potential CO2 reduction vehicle, a very good
solution. And as you have mentioned, the batteries, Toyota is going to make JPY1.5 trillion
investments to build that foundation for supply. And also in America, we're going to make until
2030 the battery plants, making investments of JPY380 billion. And for until 2025, the battery EV
investments and lineup, we have a committed to 15 models to be prepared in that timing.
And then we have to bZ4X, the batteries EV -- EV specified lineup we have announced. So
batteries and battery EVs, both of it. Compared with other OEMs, I don't think we are inferior. I
think we are preparing ourselves to be competitive in the competition with other OEMs regarding
batteries and battery EVs. So we will be steadily promoting this approach and plan.
However, up to now, we have been saying many things, but at the end, battery EVs, you need to
have the clean energy as the base. If you have clean energy as the premise, then -- as a
precondition, then it will be very effective. But unfortunately, in Japan, with our energy situation,it will reduce the CO2 emissions in Japan and also it will be also easy to buy as a product. And
then that will also contribute to reducing the CO2 emissions in this region.
So this is also what we have been saying. And also, in order to promote electrification, having the
options, a wide variety of options of electrification is what we want to do. And that means the full
lineup of electrified vehicles in Toyota terms. So in order to prepare this full lineup, we will be
working on various technical innovations, so that the Japan's 5.5 million employment related to
this industry can be protected. This is another message that we have been saying. But it's very
unfortunately, so we're going to do a lot of electrified vehicle projects. But what is happening now
would be a question that we have been asked. And unfortunately, some people are saying that
Toyota is a promoter of hybrids and is against the promoting battery EVs. Unfortunately, that is
how we are talked about.
But -- so I'm feeling a struggle of -- it's very difficult to communicate what we're trying to do. So
that is also a fact, feeling that our message is not really conveyed. And so how we have to -- how
we communicate this, how we can receive the understanding that Toyota is very serious in
promoting the battery EVs, this is something that we still have to consider and plan, and that is a
struggle that I have right now regarding how to communicate. So I very much appreciate the
advising comments from the media too, so that we can think about how we will be able to better
communicate. And sorry, I received -- I'm giving you back a question -- receiving a question, but I
hope that we can work together in that communication side.
Q - `Yukinobu Kigawa, Toyokeizai
Well, then about the battery EVs, how you explain that, especially the communication to
consumers. You said a little earlier that you are well positioned to compete with the other
OEMs.And probably the way that you express this should be changed. I think I need your advice
on that.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Well, we always talk about we're going to show -- maybe it's better to have a more concrete
lineup of battery EVs more clearly and show it to the press and to the consumer. But we'll now be
putting our heads together to think about what is the best way of expression in commuting our
intention for the electrification vehicle promotion.
Operator
Thank you very much, Mr.Kigawa. And with that, we'd like to end our financial results briefing.
Thank you very much for joining us despite your busy schedule. We would like to end our press
briefing here. Thank you.