Q1 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the AstraZeneca First Quarter Results 2021 Media Conference.
All participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentations, there will be a Q&A session.
(Operator Instructions) I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Chief Executive Officer at AstraZeneca, Pascal
Soriot.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, everyone. This is `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to our Q1 2021 media
conference call. We would like to spend about 45 minutes today to take you through a short
presentation and importantly, to answer your questions where we first focus on our Q1 results
and provide a short update on our COVID-19 vaccine.
(Operator Instructions)
Please turn to Slide 2. Today, I'm joined by `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, EVP and Chief Finance -- and Chief
Financial Officer; Mene Pangalos, who is the EVP of our Pharmaceuticals R&D; Ruud Dobber, who
is the EVP of BioPharmaceuticals business unit; Dave Fredrickson, EVP of the Oncology business
unit; and we also have Susan Galbraith, who was able to join us today, who is the SVP in charge of
Research and Early Development Oncology.
So please start to -- so turn to the next slide. This is our safe harbor statement. We will be making
comments today on our performance using constant exchange rates or CER, core financial
numbers and other non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP data is
contained in the results announcement. All numbers are in US dollars and for Q1 2021, unless we
state otherwise.
Please turn to Slide 4. This is the second forward looking legal disclaimer relating to our proposed
acquisition of Alexion.So now let's turn to Slide 5. AstraZeneca showed continued strong growth in Q1 as you can see
from this slide with a total revenue increase of 11% to $7.3 billion. Excluding revenues for the
vaccine, which is the figure we use for guidance, revenue grew by 7% at CER to just over $7
billion. Today, we are reconfirming our guidance for the full year as this strong revenue growth
drives up our stability and our cash generation.
Looking ahead, there is every sign that our Company will continue despite a strong growth with
R&D investment up 18% to more than $1.6 billion in Q1 as we continue to develop one of the most
exciting and promising pipelines in the industry. In recent days, we have received the green light
from the US for the acquisition of Alexion, the US FTC and that's -- the acquisition of Alexion
remains on track for completion in Q3. This acquisition will allow us to marry Alexion's (inaudible)
technology with AstraZeneca capabilities in genomics (Technical Difficulty).
Alexion brings great expertise in rare diseases, which would benefit from our -- which will benefit
from our full global footprint all further signs of the strength of AstraZeneca future.
Looking at our product sales in the quarter, which is the total revenue figures (Technical Difficulty)
revenue and for the quarter, those two numbers are very similar. We saw strong growth of 7% to
$7.3 billion and this was driven primarily by new medicines, including Tagrisso and Farxiga.
By region, both product sales and total revenue grew 10% in emerging market. In the US, they
were also up 10%. In the Established Rest of World market (Technical Difficulty) increase. We saw
an even more significant gain in Europe for both product sales and revenue to 83%, making
Europe the fastest growing region for the whole Company.
It is really worth noting that the (Technical Difficulty) revenue growth this quarter comes on top of
the very high quarter of a year ago where we experienced a 17% revenue growth. As we signaled
at the time last year, this was in part due to the one-off COVID-19 stocking as the pandemic
began to take hold and the patients and wholesalers were ordering medicines in Pulmicort or
Symbicort in our case to make sure it could -- they were very stocked with our medicine. As
explained a year ago, the stocking effect provided a low to mid-single-digit percentage revenue
growth back then.
We had the effect of the pandemic, but also we had the effect of the launch of the authorized
generic of Symbicort in the US. So two one-off stock build in Q1 last year, which makes the
comparison to Q1 2020 very tough. Excluding these one-off items, Q1 2021 would have been
another double-digit quarter.
So overall Q1 again showed solid growth for the strengthening of our profitability and our cash
position. It has also provided very encouraging signs for the future, given the strength of our
underlying business, our industry-leading commitment to invest in R&D and the planned
acquisition of Alexion.
So we can now turn to Slide 6. Together with a strong increase in revenue and product sales,
there are some other important elements of the financial performance I would like to take a
closer look at. As mentioned in the previous slide, we continue to invest only in our pipeline with
core and investment now representing 22% of our total revenue. This increase reflected the
advancement of several Phase III programs from across the oncology, but also the
BioPharmaceuticals portfolio as well as developing medicines to treat COVID-19. We also
continue to recognize opportunities for deals to open the pipeline.
Following Calquence securing EU market authorization in November 2020, we completed our
acquisition of Acerta this month by exercising our option to acquire the remaining 45% of theAcerta shares. The amortized cost of the option liability at the end of Q1 was $2.3 billion with
payments due in each of the next three years. We also completed the disposal of our
investments in Viela Bio, the proceeds are one-off non-taxable gain, which has reduced our core
tax rate to 8%, whereas typically our core tax rate will be around (Technical Difficulty).
As a result, this contributed to shareholder benefiting from a 53% increase in earnings per share
that took the results, the EPS to $1.63 for the quarter. In all, the Company is generating significant
increase in topline as well as in profit and cash (Technical Difficulty) acquisition for the future.
So if we turn to Slide 7 now, you can see here that the guidance for 2021 is reconfirmed. And as a
reminder, it excludes vaccines sales, but also exclude the potential benefit from the Alexion
acquisition, and we are still (Technical Difficulty) this total revenue growth from low teen for the
year and core EPS of $4.75 to $5.00, we have to say we have in the first quarter. On the first half,
we expect continued headwinds from COVID like many other companies have announced in the
last few days, but we expect a stronger second half of the year as the effect of COVID
diminishes.
So if we turn to Slide 8, you can see here that if we look at the drivers of growth and the
oncology business grew by 16% to a bit more than $3 billion. Product sales of Tagrisso grew by
13% to more than $1.1 billion for the quarter. Imfinzi grew by 17% to $556 million and Lynparza grew
by 33% to $543 million.
If we look at Respiratory & Immunology, we grew there by -- we declined sorry by 4%. For Synagis
[ph] continue to make great strides with an increase of 27% in the quarter, where we see the
impact of COVID-19 on Pulmicort and Symbicort. This is creating a headwind for those two
products on a global basis. Overall, as I said, the revenue for Respiratory & Immunology declined
by 4% to $1.5 billion.
New CVRM, however, which is our new Cardiovascular renal and metabolism medicines portfolio,
so 15% growth to $12.3 [ph] billion, which was driven by the acceleration of sales of Farxiga.
Farxiga grew by 50% in Q1 alone.
Overall, we're making great progress, thanks to the diversified nature of our therapy arena, which
together continue to compound the Company's growth despite the effect of the pandemic,
which as I said, we expect to diminish in the second half.
Please turn to Slide 9. This is a look at our pipeline, which quarter-on-quarter continues to deliver
very strong results and we continue to bring life changing medicines to patients. If we look at
what we achieved this quarter, in oncology, with Tagrisso, we saw a rapid regulatory and
reimbursement set of decisions worldwide for the adjuvant treatment in patients with early stage
non-small cell lung cancer based on the results of the Phase III ADAURA trial.
If you look at Lynparza, the OlympiA Phase III trial demonstrated early efficacy in certain forms of
breast cancer and continued to show why this is the leading PARP inhibitor class globally. In the
second half of the year, we expect further data, including a prostate cancer readout and
regulatory submission.
If I turn to BioPharmaceuticals, with Farxiga, we had a very important approval of the kidney
disease indication in the US, following the Priority Review that we received sometime ago. Also
later this year, we look forward to results from the Farxiga deliver our Phase III trial in heart failure,
which preserved ejection fraction.(inaudible) Respiratory & Immunology this week, we announced groundbreaking high level results
for nirsevimab in respiratory sensical virus. The virus which affects nearly all children before the
age of two. We believe nirsevimab could provide a significant public health benefit as the further
immunization [ph] for the general infant population.
If we start -- if we turn to Slide 10, I say a few words about our COVID vaccine. Really it's
important to remember what has been achieved in the last few months. We're very, very proud
that within a few months we've produced a vaccine for the world fulfilling [ph] protection to some
of our (inaudible) communities. To date we have supplied more than 300 million doses to 165
countries. It is really a remarkable achievement considering that earlier today [ph] that we
entered into our agreement with Oxford.
Importantly, 93% of vaccination in India are down with our vaccine. And we all know the
catastrophic pandemic that is raging through India at this stage, it's really awful. We are very
proud of being able to help people in India delivering very, very large quantities of vaccination.
And as I said representing up to 90% of all the vaccinations that are conducted in India. We're
also providing 98% of supply to COVAX. (Technical Difficulty) continue to progress with the filing,
which will take place in the next few weeks. In all, our vaccine continues to play a leading role in
the global fight against the pandemic, and it is having a measurable impact on the lives of millions
of people that is really saving lives, it's stopping people from getting in, and going to hospital.
And we are seeing signs that is reducing transmission. We saw a recent data in the UK. In Europe,
we continue to make progress with the supply and at the end of April, we would have supplied
about 50 million doses and we continue to work hard to increase the output.
So please turn to the next slide, please. So if I now wrap up and the presentation with a short
summary of the quarter, in Q1, despite the widespread disruption of the world economies and
importantly to our industry as you've -- I'm sure noticed over the last few days of announcements.
Our company continued to deliver significant growth despite the very comparison (Technical
Difficulty) strong Q1 that was held by inventory builds.
Total revenue, excluding the vaccine, increased 11% to $7.3 billion at actual rate and by 7% to $7
billion at CER for the quarter, if we don't include the contribution from the vaccine. The highlights
for the quarter and we are really very much products you've heard before, Lynparza up 33%
doing extremely well, Farxiga up 50%, Forxiga [ph] up 27%, so (Technical Difficulty) products
continued to grow very strongly.
From a regional viewpoint, the US, the emerging markets are growing very nicely, but in particular,
Europe grew by double digit. So you can see a widespread growth across our portfolio product,
but also across our geographies. And it's very nice to see growth nicely after many years of
having to manage decline from patent expiries.
We saw continued COVID-19 related impacts on sales of Pulmicort and Symbicort in every country
around the world. But in particular in China and that of course put pressure on our respiratory
revenue globally. Thanks to its balanced growth across product, the product portfolio in the
regions, we are reconfirming our guidance for the year in term of top line growth, but also
profitability and we can see a continued improvement in cash generation, as we had indicated
we're aiming to achieve.
And when we look to the future, there is still early sign that our Company will continue on despite
the strong growth over the next number of years. We have a strong investment in R&D. We
continue to invest heavily in our very rich pipeline. And we invested $1.6 billion in R&D in Q1 alone.
The FTC in the US has given us the green light for the acquisition of Alexion and of course nowwe need to obtain the same green light in other geographies, but we are on track for completion
in the third quarter.
And that will be another therapy area for the company and another engine of growth. As
mentioned earlier, vaccine deliveries across the globe are continuing at pace with shipments
increasing as manufacturing output improves. And we are proud to say that our vaccine accounts
for almost all product shipments to date to more than 100 low-income countries.
So overall, Q1 again showed solid growth and I'm confident that this growth will accelerate over
the course of the year in particular in second half of the year and that will enable us to achieve
our goals for the year.
So before we move to the Q&A, I wanted to share a few words about my dear friend and
colleague, Jose Baselga who led our oncology R&D team so brilliantly, but sadly passed away
suddenly just over a month ago. He was an outstanding scientist, a true giant in his field. He was
recognized for pioneering research and for his involvement in developing so many medicines for
cancer patients in particular in breast cancer. The team continued to build on his transformational
work and his vision across our oncology R&D. He made a tremendous impact on our organization
over the last two years and we all owe him a great deal for ingredients and we will miss him as a
scientist, but also as a wonderful (inaudible) friend.
Thank you for your attention and we now open the Q&A. (Operator Instructions) Perhaps we can
take the first question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
We have Ludwig Burger from Reuters.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. (Operator Instructions) Go ahead, Ludwig. We can't hear you. At least I cannot hear you. You
might be on mute.
Operator
(inaudible) from the FT and we'll come back to Ludwig later.
Q - Unidentified Participant
So on the COVID vaccine, I'd like to know what the problem is with the data that you are
submitting to the FDA for approval, why it's taking so long? And if there's any chance that you
actually won't submit to the FDA, given the US doesn't seem to need the vaccine?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, maybe Mene you can take this question and there's nothing wrong with the data. It's just the
size of the submission that we have to make. There is nothing to do with previous submissions
because we don't have a single study where an anonymous submission to make, but Mene go
ahead with that. You're on mute, Mene.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `That we're not just submitting the US data. We're submitting all of the trials from Europe. We're
also having build up old analyses for our covigilance from all of the studies that have been run
and all of the utilization of the vaccine. So there's a lot more data than just the Phase III study. And
so we're working as fast as we can to pull a little together and submit. But it's understandably
taking longer. It's much bigger than any fall that we would normally submit.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
If we have only one study the so-called US led global study, we'll be much more straightforward,
but here we have the Oxford forum submit, where we have regular dividends. We have various
studies around the world submit on our provisions, there is many steps. So a pretty substantial
training. So nothing really problematic here. It's just the size of the work.
So the next question is `Jenny Strasburg, Analyst, Wall Street Journal at the Wall Street Journal. Jenny, go ahead.
Q - `Jenny Strasburg, Analyst, Wall Street Journal `
Thank you. A question about the EPS effect from the vaccine. I wondered if you could just bottom
line that. Back of the envelope, is that about (inaudible) million in the quarter. And just -- can you
explain a little bit about how -- I know you said the performance around the vaccine and its effect
on the bottom line will, I think, equalize or stabilize in the second quarter -- or in the second half,
I'm sorry. But can you kind of talk about when you think you might breakeven? And is that a
function of just -- what you're putting forward and what you're not getting back at this point?
Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Jenny. That's good way of chance to clarify because I may not have been clear.
When we talk about COVID, there are two dimensions to this. One is the effect of COVID on our
general business, if you will, I'm sure you have many other pharma companies in the last few days
announced that COVID-19 the pandemic itself had an impact on cancer diagnosis on treatment of
patients and it affects all our products.
So when I talked about the second half, I was talking about the effect of the pandemic itself on
our general portfolio of products that as I said, we've done well in the first quarter, but we still
have a negative impact of the pandemic on our business, just like every other pharmaceutical
company. So that's one aspect and the second aspect is, vaccine is and I ask Marc to comment on
this, but we have variations from quarter to quarter small variations, bottom line is we want to be
doing it with no loss, no profit and but there you have variations. Marc, if you want to answer
more specifically the question.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So yes, we can expect -- and we have mentioned that in our no profit commitment, we
expect to have small variations quarter-to-quarter, but these variations will equalize around the
breakeven for the totality of the cycle. The cycle is not only the cycle of delivery, but also
monitoring of the safety of the vaccine over several years. So over all this cycle, the profit, the
plus and minus around the breakeven will equalize. And therefore, there will be small variations
quarter-to-quarter.
Q - `Jenny Strasburg, Analyst, Wall Street Journal `
And can you just bottom -- can you just kind of translate the $0.03 EPS to a bottom line number,A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So we are not presenting a sort of profit and loss for the vaccine itself, but we have indicated that
it will have -- it has a negative impact for the first quarter of 2021 of $0.03. So you can look at
$0.03 impact on the reported EPS that we're providing.
Q - `Jenny Strasburg, Analyst, Wall Street Journal `
Okay. And just on the production, are you planning to -- I know you said last quarter, you would hit
200 million doses by this month. Is that -- are you on track for that?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
We are on track with this, actually, Jenny, and it's important to keep in mind and remember that
when we talk about 200 million, we are talking about the global supply chain output. And what I
call the global supply chain output is the output of the AG supply chain, but also our partners
around the world, Serum Institute in India, but also all the partners like (inaudible) in Brazil and
others, but absolutely we're on track with this.
Q - `Jenny Strasburg, Analyst, Wall Street Journal `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And in India in particular, Serum Institute is producing a very large quantity and it's all used for
vaccinations in India, which is why I was saying earlier more than 90% of vaccinations in India are
done with our vaccine. So clearly in India this vaccine is having a tremendous impact on helping
people. But as you know, there are lots of many people in India, so several hundred millions of
people at risk that are older or with risk factors. So it's going to take a little while, until they can
vaccinate all this people are traced.
Q - `Jenny Strasburg, Analyst, Wall Street Journal `
Okay, thank you. I won't -- not ask my question even though I want to. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So the next question. Well, how may we go back to Ludwig now again, if Ludwig you are able to
speak now? No. Ludwig Burger at Reuters. Still have a technical issue. So the next question is
(inaudible) go ahead and we will go back to Ludwig a little later.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. I just wanted to follow-up on the second part of Anna's question. I don't think we got
an answer on. In terms of the emergency window, obviously, given the pace of the rollout in of
vaccines in the US, have you been given any reassurance or post the caution over meeting the
kind of emergency threshold to get in the EUA rather than just going for a full market approval?
And also, you mentioned in your results that you're looking for data readout and regulatory
submission of your antibody treatment. I wondered, is that going to be led by the US submission?
And one final one, if I can. Obviously, businesses are all looking at new ways of working, post-
pandemic, has Astra formalized anything around flexible working for the future.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `So several questions, Sussy. So maybe Mene, you could start with the (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
I'll do the first two (inaudible) I mean the EUA, again, obviously, we're working with BARDA and
the US government and the FDA right now, the assumption is they'll be filing for the EUA. But if
ultimately, they say to us that they'd rather we file for BLA than, but we will do that. But right now,
the assumption is we'll be filing for the EUA, as I said, in the coming weeks.
With regards to the lab, the data readout, as I said, in the first half of the year. And the EUA
submissions will be led in the US, but then also be doing global submissions around the world as
well with the lab.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mene. And the last question Sussy is, the answer is we haven't concluded yet because as
you can imagine, we want to do a policy together with our friends at Alexion, so that we don't
have to redevelop something after the merger. So we're going to be doing this together with our
Alexion colleagues and implement the new policy after we have all approvals for the merger. But
it's clear that there will be some element of flexibility in the policy in the future, but it's also clear
that we all believe in the need to come together on a regular basis if you want to innovate and if
you want to maintain the social capital of the company and the culture of the company people
need to meet. But there will be some element of flexibility in our policy, we need to adapt to the
new world, and what we've learned from COVID for sure.
The next question is from `Alex Ralph, Analyst, The Times, The Times. Alex go ahead.
Q - `Alex Ralph, Analyst, The Times
Good morning, everyone. Hope you can hear me okay? Just a few questions. The first, obviously,
you've been heavily criticized, including from senior US regulators on the nature (Technical
Difficulty) disclosed and communicated information. I just want just what you could have improved
that, whether you agree to those criticisms? And more broadly, whether you're concerned that
would have any wide reputational impact on the business. There's been suggestions that given
the level of criticism that you guys wouldn't do this on a non-profit basis, should it -- in hindsight, I
wondered if that was indeed the case. You've also been criticized for being in Australia during the
lockdown. I wondered if you had returned to Europe now and whether you thought that was also
a just criticism and whether that reduced your oversight over the company? And lastly, just
whether you thought that what sort of assessment you've made of the commercial opportunity
for the vaccine after the pandemic?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So several questions, Alex. Let me give it a try and maybe Mene could add. We actually got
involved because we wanted to help and we thought we could make a difference and develop
this vaccine and not commercialize it, but distribute it, I should say at no profit. And we never
pretended that we were going to be perfect. And so then we've learned a few things along the
way and, but you have to realize that what we've done has been done within a year.
We started -- we didn't start in January or February last year, like some other companies did we
started in May, June when we got involved with Pfizer (inaudible) timeline has been very, very
short. And at the end of the day, we can look at this with the glass half empty look or we can look
at the glass half full. And if you look at the glass half full, what we have achieved is 300 milliondoses of vaccine as of to date, we have not the only, but the major vaccine helping people in
India. Imagine without a vaccine what India would look like. Imagine we have not stepped out.
Imagine we have said no. And imagine nobody would have helped this vaccine. Think about it a
year ago everybody was talking about 120 vaccines in development, 130 vaccine in which we
forget very quickly, but that's what people are, we're talking about last year. Where are all those
vaccines? They are nowhere. Why? Some of them have failed, okay. It happens in our industry, but
in many cases, simply because there was no manufacturing capacity to them to manufacture
them.
So without a vaccine, there will be no vaccine in India, there will be no supply to COVAX and et
cetera, et cetera. So and including in Europe even though we are unfortunately not delivering the
quantity of vaccine we are hoping to deliver, we are still the second largest supplier of vaccine to
the European community, 50 million doses at the end of April and we only started February 1, and
we are the second largest supplier to the EU.
So at the end of the day, all of these things can be looked at different ways, but we don't regret
anything because first of all, we look forward not backwards and we admit an enormous
difference. A lot of people are very thankful for the difference we've made. And we don't have
(inaudible) make an even bigger difference, of course, we frequently have delivered more
quantities to Europe for instance of course.
But at the end of the day, we did our very best to help the world and including every region of
the world and I think overall, the team should be very proud of the difference we've made and
the lives we've saved. If you look at the UK, and I'm sure the same is for every other country
where we deliver the vaccine. But we have data in the UK, where we had single handed published
recently an NOC that the vaccination have said -- had said at the time 10,500 lives and our
vaccine is a great portion of the vaccinations in the UK that have been made with the Pfizer
vaccine and our vaccine and it's the same in many, many countries around the world.
So I think we are very proud, but of course, we are disappointed. We didn't do it even low, we
would have got to the even low. And as to the remote work, and my life has always been over
the last number of years sort of 80% spent on video because I manage a global network, my
team is based in Sweden, Cambridge, the US, in Wilmington, in Gettysburg, in China, in Shanghai.
So we have a team of people that are based around the world in Switzerland, in (inaudible) So
every meeting I mean there is someone on the video. So for me, it hasn't been much of a change
and as a company we've learned to work remotely even also. And in fact, a lot of companies
have really embraced remote digital working a lot more than -- a lot like we did, which by the way,
it helps us reduce our carbon footprint. So certainly working digitally something will do even more
in the future.
So the next question. Maybe we could go back to Ludwig at Reuters. If you're back again Ludwig,
should we try?
A - Unidentified Speaker
I think we have a his colleague, `Alistair Smout, Analyst, Reuters instead.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead, Alistair.
Q - `Alistair Smout, Analyst, ReutersHi there, can you hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Alistair Smout, Analyst, Reuters
Hi. Thank you. You're obviously in court at the moment with the European Union, and they've sort
of -- one of the questions on same level is that you perhaps overpromised how quickly you could
-- and efficiently you could supply vaccine doses. We've had a very impassionate defense just
now, but it is the case that Denmark, Australia, Israel, and perhaps then now they don't need
AstraZeneca's vaccine. And maybe some of the excess demand on -- for your vaccine with the
supply constraints you had, maybe that's starting to even out. So first of all, do you think you over
promised in terms of the commitments you signed up for? And secondly, now that some places
are saying, actually, we don't need AstraZeneca, are you recalibrating your supplies? And how will
that impact your projections for how much vaccine you can supply to, say, Britain or the European
Union or indeed India? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, that's a great question Alistair. I don't think we have overpromised. We never promise more
than we thought we could deliver and again with hindsight everybody is very wise, but basically
what we communicated at the time as a forecast was based on the capacity that we had to put
together and based on assumptions, which at the time to be honest were even conservative, the
assumption in term of yield and productivity in the bioreactors was even less than friends at
Oxford University had communicated to us.
We took a set of assumptions we thought were conservative. It turned out that as far as the EU
supply chains two of the major size didn't deliver. And if you look at the network of sites around
the world, some have done very well and delivered the yield that we expected and more, but
others have not. So that has been valuable around the world and we've said many times before,
but we never over promise we actually communicated what we thought we could achieve at the
time and beyond this it's hard for me to comment, because as you know, when you are now in a
court case you basically do not comment.
The other thing I would say here is, we really welcome this possibility to resolve the discussion on
the supply and we are totally committed to increasing our supply to Europe. And in fact
everywhere countries have told us, they still want the totality of what they ordered. And in fact
everybody wants it even faster even in places where we are delivering according to schedule,
countries would like us to deliver even faster. So everywhere around the world are doing our very
best to increase production and deliveries.
Next question is Knut at the Swedish Public Television. Knut? I hope I'm not harming your name
too badly, Knut. Go ahead.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Are you on mute?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
If there is another question whilst Knut is --A - Unidentified Speaker
I think we have actually also from The Guardian, `Julia Kollewe, Analyst, The Guardian.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah Julia, go ahead.
Q - `Julia Kollewe, Analyst, The Guardian
Hi, good morning. Just following on from what you've been saying about India that it would take a
little while to vaccinate the vulnerable population there. What's your best guess? How long is that
going to take and when can the Serum Institute start exporting vaccines again around the world.
And on that, you said 48 million vaccine doses were shipped under the COVAX initiative in the
first quarter. Can you comment on how this compares to the schedule? COVAX has reported
delays with these deliveries. Can you say how severe those delays are and what you can do to
speed up deliveries, please?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Julia, thank you. The first part of the question, I cannot answer because, as you can imagine,
the government of India basically has to decide what they want to do. I mean this pandemic in
India has really explored, as we all know, and it's certainly something that caught many people by
surprise. So the need for a vaccine in India or the vaccine produced by Serum Institute has
exploded and it's yes, not clear when it will be possible to export again. And so the link -- so we
hope at some point, the export reopen, but it's really not in our hands at all.
The second part of your question is linked to the first part really is that the supply to COVAX is
lower-than-expected because our colleagues, our partners at Serum Institute have not been able
to export the quantities that they are hoping to export or planning to export. And therefore, the
supply to COVAX is short versus what we were expecting. And of course, at the end of the day, if
you manufacture 1 million doses of a vaccine, you can't multiply it. I mean, you have to decide
when it's going to be shipped. And in that instance, the Indian government has decided it should
prioritize its own population. And quite frankly, we've seen this in many other countries around the
world. And when you see the state of the pandemic in India, you understand why the authorities
would want to prioritize this. So of course, it creates issue as well in the world. But at the end of
the day, we do our very, very best to produce as much as we can and friends at (Technical
Difficulty) but we are not -- we can only manufacture the bioreactors that we have will produce,
and that's the limitation we have, whether it's in India or (inaudible) we can't carry this sales in the
way of reactors to produce more. I mean, that's the limiting factor we have.
Also to understand is the cycle to make a vaccine is a very long. And so any improvement in yield
that would happen today would return into increased quantities of finished vaccine, three to four
months later. So that's the limitation. The bottom line is, (inaudible) on vaccine, but overall, the
world missed its vaccine. And we have many countries that want more of it.
Q - `Julia Kollewe, Analyst, The Guardian
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
How about we go back to Knut, if he has been able to connect? Okay, we move to (inaudible)Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions, Pascal. Just the first on R&D spend onto the Alexion
integration. Can you give us an idea of the percentage that you will spend and then a couple of
questions, Lynparza, the European performance, higher than the US, can you just tell us a little bit
about this, what's happening with BRCA testing, you said it's increasing in the EU, what's
happening in the United States that have been stalled by the pandemic along with general
diagnoses in oncology? And then a final one, if I may Tagrisso in China you said (Technical
Difficulty) listing what level can we expect this to bounce back to in future quarters? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you so much. The vaccine is important, but it's very nice to also talk about our core
products. They're doing very well. We have a great portfolio of products. So Dave, can you cover
the (Technical Difficulty) remarks with probably R&D spend question?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, absolutely. So let me just start on the Tagrisso question. So within China, just as a reminder,
we had NRDL inclusion come into effect beginning March 1. And that's a little different than in
years past, where it comes into effect on January 1. Within that context, we saw emerging market
sales for China really deliver some very nice demand growth in the quarter. It was offset by stock
compensation also that we realized in the quarter because we're stock compensation into
January and February.
But I think that the key point that I'd like to comment on is that the Tagrisso business in China
really is from the underlying fundamentals performing quite nicely. And I expect that we will see
the volume growth from expanded access, offsetting the impact of price reductions that we
needed to take on in order to come on at the NRDL. And the math for that makes pretty good
sense because there's over twice as many frontline patients than there were second line
patients.
On Lynparza, just to clarify, is the question specifically about BRCA testing within the United
States in the context of was it in breast cancer?
Q - Unidentified Participant
It's just about genetic testing full stop and also the -- obviously the impact of delayed diagnosis
you talked about, but maybe this has a knock-on effect on genetic testing, too.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Got it. Yeah. Thank you. So I mean, I think just again to review on these pieces, we're seeing
across tumor types that the level of diagnoses are down 70% to 80% relative to the pre-COVID
baseline. We're seeing a greater level of lower diagnoses with lung cancer. It's a little bit higher,
interestingly enough with breast cancer and then ovarian and chronical lymphocytic leukemia sit
somewhere in between. Indeed, testing is also something that has been affected by it. I would
say that I'm happy to report though within that context, we have seen in the United States that
our efforts to drive HRD testing for ovarian cancer and HRRM testing for prostate cancer have
both grown in terms of the utilization of those tests. Unfortunately, it's just the number of patients
coming into the office that has really presented the greatest challenge.I also think that the silver lining in this is that we've seen a lot more pivot towards technologies of
remote testing. Interestingly, I'd actually say that we've seen at home and remote testing take
even kind of greater hold outside of the United States. We've seen Latin America, Europe,
indeed, in parts of Asia, home testing for eGFR be something that has been picked up and taking
place. So I do think that we've had an opportunity to pivot this new ways of working that will be
beneficial in the future.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Marc comments on the --
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So a short comment on the vaccine, the R&D, sorry. The spend on first quarter '21 was equivalent
to 23% of our total revenue, if you look comparable in 2020, it was 22%, so a slight increase. We
need to be aware that in the quarter one '21, there are spend that are related to the vaccine,
COVID-19 as well as for the long-acting antibody.
Moving forward, we have said many times that we will work hard on having a positive operating
leverage, which means we will spend -- our operational expenses will grow less rapidly than our
total revenues, and we intend to continue this in the future after the integration of Alexion. But
we have also said many times that we will continue investing in R&D at the top end of the
innovative industry. So that provides, I think, a good dimension of our R&D spend for years to
come because we want to retain a sustainable growth, a very rapid, sustainable growth in years
to come.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. So maybe we'll conclude here. I just want to conclude by repeating again that
even though, indeed, there are supply shortfalls in some geographies overall. It's important to
remember what has been achieved with this vaccine, 300 million doses of vaccines delivered so
far to date means 300 million people protected. And we know from real lot of studies and also
our clinical program that the vaccine is very effective. So that's a fantastic achievement that we're
all very proud of. And maybe the second message I'd like to leave you with is, as you saw, the --
our products, our core products continue to do very well. We are on track with a good Q1, despite
a strong -- a tough comparison to Q1 2020. And also despite headwinds from coming, like the
entire industry is facing, and we are on track with delivering our goals for the year.
So with this, thank you so much for your interest in our Company, and I wish you a good rest of
the day.