Q2 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon and welcome to the Novartis Q2 2021 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will
be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions) A recording of the conference call
including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly after the call ends. (Operator
Instructions)
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head-Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much and good morning and good afternoon everybody. Big thank you to all of
you again for participating in this call and spending the time to listen to our quarterly results. The
information presented today contains forward-looking statements that involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors.These may cause the actual results to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For a description of
some of these factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly
results on Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and furnished to the US Securities and
Exchange Commission.
So, thank you again and with that I'll hand across to `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer.
`Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir and thanks everyone for joining today's conference call. Today with me I have
members of our executive team and also would like to introduce Karen Hale, our new Chief Legal
Officer. Karen joins us from the biopharmaceutical industry with over 20 years experience in a
broad range of medical devices and pharmaceuticals, so welcome Karen.
So if we can move to slide 5, I wanted to start by reflecting on the journey we've been on as a
company as we focus the company, rolled out our strategy and delivered consistent performance
over the recent period. Going back to the first half of 2018, when you look at our financial
performance over the first half of the -- for the subsequent 4 years, our sales have grown at 6%
CAGAR, our core operating income at a 13% CAGAR and we've grown our Innovative Medicines
margin from 31.8% to 36.8% in the first half of 2021, demonstrating that our operational execution
has been strong. Now when you look ahead, we remain confident in our growth outlook as we
outlined and met the management last year where we highlighted a 4% CAGAR of our 2019
actuals to a 2025 sales goal of 60 billion or more and a Consensus IM margin that is currently at
37.6% that we remain confident that we can achieve. So strong performance track record and a
strong growth outlook remains the story for Novartis.
Now going to slide 6, when you look at our strong performance in Q2, it was strong across all of
the key elements that we believe will drive long-term value for our patients, as well as for
shareholders. Our sales growth was strong and Harry will go through that in a bit more detail. We
had strong productivity with good core operating income growth and good margin expansion. We
continued our innovation agenda which will be critical to driving the growth to 2025 and
importantly beyond. And we also continued on our journey to be a leader in ESG with some
important milestones and I'll talk about each of these areas in turn.
Moving to the next slide, when you look at our key growth drivers out and launches over the
period, we demonstrated I think strong performance across our key brand. Very first we'll talk a
bit more about the strong performance of Entresto, Cosentyx and Zolgensma, as well as
Kesimpta which is off to a good and strong start. And then -- so that will also cover the various
oncology growth drivers. Now taken together, we are key growth drivers in launches now account
for 51% of our IM sales. And these products are growing at a rate of 29% in quarter 2 which I think
basically demonstrates our transition from an older portfolio of medicines to a next wave of
portfolios, which we believe will enable us to drive our growth over the next decade.
Now moving to slide 8, I also wanted to say a word on Sandoz. We saw the business stabilize in
quarter 2. We saw sales at 5% in the quarter, Biopharma sales were also up 5% and core
operating income was also up. Now when you look at the story for the rest of the year for
Sandoz, we continue to expect disruptions related to COVID, but we do expect also assuming
health care systems continue on their current trend, return hopefully back to a more stable
situation. We haven't had a historically weak cough and cold season and decreased anti-infectives
use, but we will see how this fall and falls and again we're hopeful that we can get back to a more
stable situation overall in the generics sector.Now that said, we are confident in longer-term outlook in Sandoz. We made the -- we believe the
right investments in biosimilar, we've doubled the size of the biosimilar pipeline with a focus in
key therapeutic areas such as oncology and immunology. And we continue to also invest in our
core generics capabilities. We strengthened our antibiotics manufacturing setup, as well as
broadened new portfolio of assets including our recent acquisition of GSK's anti-infectives
portfolio. And we continue to make investments in complex generics including oncology
injectables and respiratory medicines. So over time, we remain committed to delivering Sandoz
outlook of mid-single digit sales and mid to high 20 core operating income margin.
So moving to the next slide and turning to innovation, Q2 continued our progress on the
innovation front. We had approvals of Cosentyx in the US in pediatric psoriasis, as well as Entresto
in essential hypertension in China, which can be another growth driver for Entresto building us
already strong performance. I'll say a bit more on some of these other milestones in subsequent
sites, when I did want to note is asciminib our ABL001 has been filed in the US in the 3rd line
setting. We do believe this medicine has blockbuster potential in the 3rd line setting alone, not to
mention our efforts to move into earlier lines which we'll say more about. And we also had
important advances on Kymriah and Alpelisib as well, which I think will enable us to broaden the
indications for both of these medicines.
So moving to slide 10 and taking a little bit of a deeper dive on our portfolio, starting with our
lifecycle management. I already mentioned the China approval in essential hypertension, but for
Cosentyx we remain on track for the Hidradenitis Suppurativa readouts in the second half. There
is strong open label data that supports the use of Cosentyx in this indication. And then we also
have a range of other indications we're developing as we've noted to enable Cosentyx to
continue its strong trajectory. We're on track for Kisqali's MONALEESA-2 OS readout in the
second half which would be the 3rd OS readout, two have already been favorable for Kisqali,
really building on the unique profile we believe Kisqali has.
We also are on track for the adjuvant readout in 2022. We'll speak more about Leqvio in a
moment. Now turning to Pharmaceuticals, we'll go through Iptacopan's data in a bit more detail,
but I wanted to highlight as well that Ligelizumab CSU studies are on track for Phase 3 readouts in
the second half. We have also initiated and are progressing chronic inducible urticaria studies, as
well as food allergy studies. And we have continued to progress Branaplam with an agreement
now with the regulators for a start in the second half of a Phase2b study in Huntington's disease.
Moving to oncology, our Canakinumab readouts are also on track. For Lu-PSMA, we have
submissions planned for the second half and we've started the Phase 3 studies in the earlier line
settings, I'll say a bit more about that. And I also wanted to highlight that with TNO155 or SHP2
inhibitor, we've already now advanced both in combination with other KRAS agents, but are also
now moving into the clinic with our SHP2 in combination with our own KRAS agent JDQ, as well as
other SHP2 combinations that we're currently exploring. Lastly I wanted to note that Asciminib has
entered our wildcard box on the bottom here in the first-line setting. We're assuming it was going
against investigator choice of TKI. Our hope is, if we were able to deliver this result, we would be
able to once again transform the care CML patients with a multi-blockbuster potential indication
for (inaudible). It's worth noting that across the wildcard at CCMF5 [ph], while these programs are
still early, each one of them has their potential to be a multi-billion dollar medicine that we're
ultimately able to deliver on the clinical value of these assets.
Now moving to slide 11, seeing a bit more on Inclisiran, you likely saw that our PDUFA action date
is now January 1, 2022. We have filed the refile from our Schaftenau site, which is the
manufacturing location where we currently do secondary manufacturing for product such as
Cosentyx, as well as other biologics, those site is well known to the regulators.We also have I believe we've addressed the concerns that FDA has raised and it's notable to
FDA not raise any concerns related to the efficacy or safety of Inclisiran in any of the interactions
that we've had. So this is a Class 2 Resubmission, a 6-month timeline. We of course will continue
to work with FDA to see if there's opportunities to move this up earlier in the time period, but
hopefully now this will get us to a place where we can bring this very important medicine with a
very substantial potential for the company to market in the United States.
Now moving to the next slide, turning to Lu-PSMA, you likely saw the ASCO plenary session. The
medicine has really remarkable results of 38% reduced risk of death and a 60% improvement in
rPFS. Regulatory submissions are on track for the second half. The movement into earlier lines
studies with the PSMA-4 and the PSMA addition studies are already underway. And we're also
evaluating whether to move the medicine even into earlier line settings.
We are working very hard to also expand the relevant capabilities to administer the medicine and
Susanne will speak more about that in a moment. Moving to the next slide. Iptacopan continues to
show its utility across a broad range of indications that you saw in the quarter with IgA
nephropathy we presented the primary endpoint at ERA, EDTA, a 23% reduction in proteinuria at
3 months and it's important to note that this was a 3-month time point.
We expect that proteinuria over time to continue to improve as we typically see in studies like
this. We look forward to looking at the 6-month and beyond endpoint. Also importantly there was
a stabilization of renal function which will be very important from a regulatory, as well as clinical
utility standpoint. The APPLAUSE-IgAN and IgA nephropathy study is now ongoing to support the
filings worldwide in this indication. We also continue to progress our C3G indication for this
medicine with EU PRIME designation already this year. We had a 49% reduction in proteinuria with
this medicine at 3 months, again we would expect that trend to hopefully continue in subsequent
months. A stabilization in renal function also well tolerated and this Phase 3 study now is enrolling
to support filings worldwide.
And moving to the next slide when you look at Iptacopan in PNH, we also presented data here in
the front line setting, to complement the data we already have as an add-on therapy. This new
data which we presented at EHA show clinically important benefits of monotherapy Iptacopan
and this is novel agent with its ability to inhibit factor B with a -- both the impact intravascular and
extravascular hemolysis, gives us hope that we can be ultimately indicated for frontline usage, as
well as add on to eculizumab.
Worth noting it's unique as an oral agent with a great safety profile. So we look forward to
completing the apply PNH studies with the superiority endpoints and then again to support filings
worldwide. As you likely saw as well in our recent Investor Day on this medicine, we have a broad
range of indications also now advancing. We believe this medicine has substantial potential to
treat a range of immunological, renal and hematological diseases.
Moving to the next slide, one piece of data that came out in the quarter that didn't attract as
much attention is what one might have expected is our Zolgensma Sprint data. This was
remarkable data showing the impact of gene therapy can have unfiltered with SMA. In this study,
100% of the patients met the primary endpoint of sitting independently would treat it in the pre-
symptomatic setting. So these are patients who are identified through newborn screening and
treated with Zolgensma. 100% of patients met the secondary endpoint, also with respect to
walking and standing we saw remarkable gains for these patients, which we hope will continue to
improve over time.This data reinforces that Zolgensma as a foundational therapy for pre-symptomatic and
symptomatic children with SMA. It also continues to give us confidence that over time as gene
therapies as a sector matures, our capabilities in gene therapy having learned so much with the
introduction of Zolgensma around the world, building outstanding manufacturing and technical
capabilities will allow us in the long-term to be a leader in gene therapies for decade to come.
Now moving to the next slide, I also wanted to say and as a last note on the pipeline an update
on the Sabatolimab STIMULUS program, which is progressing in MDS and AML. As a reminder in
Phase 1 studies we showed that Sabatolimab 50% or 58% ORR in myelodysplastic syndromes.
And given this unique mechanism of action, it's the first IO agent in the hematological setting. It
gave us confidence to move forward within MDS and AML with the STIMULUS program, which are
pivotal studies that tackle both of these indications.
Now the parallel execution of these trials offers us the range of filing options. We did have the CR
readout and the DMC recommended that we continue the study blinded to the PFS readout and
then of course the OS readout as well will come over time. It's also worth noting in the MDS
program, we have a third study and the stimulus array of studies that also looks with the triplet
combination including venetoclax. So we believe we have a program that can adequately cover
the range of potential options that would be needed for patients to be attributed effectively with
the medicines such as MVG [ph]. So we remain very excited about the program, we think
scientifically, mechanistically and as a first-in-class asset, it could be an important addition to AML
and MDS treatment, an area that we've been a leader in for many years. So, we'll look forward to
keeping you updated on this program.
Now moving to ESG, we had strong progress on ESG, I think some notable milestones in our
effort to be a leader in this space. We reached 1 billion courses of anti-malarial treatment
delivered since 1999, it's 1 billion patients we've been able to treat with our Coartem, a
pioneering agent to treat malaria, very proud of that achievement. We also recently announced
the 10-year commitment to empower 1200 African American students working with historically
black colleges and university to really address the inequities in medical education and broadly
inequities in healthcare in the United States. And you can see other important milestones that we
had over the course of the quarter. So, we'll look forward to continuing our progress on this front
and being a leader in ESG for the long-term, ultimately embedding this into our business to drive
long-term performance.
So with that, I'll hand it over to Marie-France.
`Marie-France Tschudin, President-Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon to all and pleased to update you on our Q2
Pharma performance. If we move to slide 19, we delivered 12% growth versus prior year and an
additional $1 billion in revenues. As you can also see, we also continue to make progress in our
portfolio shift. Our growth drivers and launches are showing excellent momentum with 35%
growth and these now contribute to more than 50% of our top line. Thanks to our strong focus
on execution.
You can expect this shift to continue as we invest behind our growth drivers and launches and
also actively manage the matured portfolio.
If we move to Slide 20, Cosentyx delivered 21% growth. US volume growth in Q2 is now back in
line with the market and sales were up 11% quarter-over-quarter. Our field force activity is above
pre-COVID levels and as we see the market regaining momentum, we also intend to captureversus Q1 following the NRDL listing in March. So full-year, we're on track to deliver double-digit
growth based on our broad access, our ongoing geographic expansion and the continued
investment.
We can now proudly say that 500,000 patients have been treated with Cosentyx and with our
ambition to expand to 10 indications, we know that many more can benefit. We'll continue to
invest with additional approvals in the short-term and with our Hidradenitis Suppurativa readout
towards the end of the year.
If we move to the next slide, Entresto saw another very strong quarter with 46% growth. In the
US, you can see from the NBRx growth that we're really capitalizing on the ACC consensus
recommendation and also on the expanded label. In Europe, the ESC guidelines now recommend
Entresto as first line and that is further reinforcing our position as first Choice.
China, we tripled sales compared to previous year on the back of strategic account expansion. In
fact China is now Entresto's second biggest market. So this team is strongly focused on
execution and educating prescribers on guidelines, activating patients and ensuring the
guidelines become protocol at hospital level. You can expect to see the usual summer slowdown,
however, full-year we will stay strong as we address the remaining 70% of patients who do not
yet benefit from Entresto.
If I move to Slide 22, Zolgensma is continuing its growth trajectory as we open up reimbursement
in new markets. As you heard Vas say earlier, we've got compelling data in pre-symptomatic
patients. And that's it's really important for us to continue the work to implement newborn
screening, as we know, the earlier we treat the more transformational the outcomes are for
these babies.
In the US, 80% of newborns are being screened and this is allowing treatment within a few weeks
of birth. Ex-US, we expect to see Italy and the UK an additional reimbursed market to drive the
growth in the second half. And even though you can continue to expect some volatility in the
quarterly pattern, we're on track to exceed blockbuster status this year.
Our preclinical studies for our IT are progressing well and we're actually ready to start our Phase
3 as soon as the FDA gives us the green light. Over time the ITU formulation can more than
double the number of patients who could benefit from Zolgensma.
If we move to the next slide, with Kesimpta our focus is on broad adoption in early lines of
therapy. We've added 500 new prescribers and we've doubled the number of patients on
Kesimpta versus Q1. We also see that half of the Kesimpta usage is naive or first switch and this is
exactly where we want to be. The B-cell class is currently leading the recovery of a dynamic
market and Kesimpta has got the second highest NBRx share in the MS space. So this positions
us well as the market opens up further.
As we move to the second half of the year, we know what we need to do to double demand and
we're doing what is needed for a strong Q4. We're maintaining our leading share of voice to
really increase the awareness of Kesimpta. We also believe that our PIRA and IgG data provide
important clinical differentiation. So, we're fully focused on what we need to do. We're also fully
focused on delivering a positive customer experience, in fact 80% of patients are receiving their
first dose within 5 days and our patient support services are enabling fast and easy initiation.
If I move on to slide 24 and move on to Leqvio. We all know that ASCVD is a leading cause of
death and unfortunately mortality is on the rise. There are effective treatments we know that too,but patients are not at goal due to access, adherence and affordability challenges. And this is why
we're taking a different approach on how we bring Leqvio to market.
In the US, we've got a new action date for January and we're preparing for launch. Our access
strategy could actually enable two-thirds of patients at launch to access Leqvio with a $0 co-pay.
So we're working with health care systems on broad adoption, we're using our existing
infrastructure to identify patients and also to setup buy and build administration.
In the UK, we're partnering with the NHS to bring Leqvio to more than 300,000 patients at risk of
a second CV event over the next 3 years and we're on track for that launch in Q3. We understand
this approach will take time and further evidence generation, but this level of ambition is
absolutely necessary if we want to drive better outcomes for ASCVD patient.
So in summary, an excellent quarter, we're fully focused on our strategy to maximize our growth
drivers, deliver our launches and also prepare for the next wave of innovative medicines. As we
further accelerate our portfolio shift, we're also transforming our business. We want to be much
more customer centric and also pursue innovative approaches to launch our products in
partnership with healthcare systems around the world.
So coming out of Q2, we had good momentum across the globe which we expect will continue in
the second half. I want to take a moment to recognize the fantastic teams around the work for
their hard work and for delivering these results. Over to you Susanne.
`Susanne Schaffert, President-Novartis Oncology `
Thank you, Marie-France and moving to slide 26, I'm very pleased to give an update on the
oncology business. So the oncology business showed very solid performance in the second
quarter, delivering 7% of growth with sales reaching 3.9 billion. Our growth drivers and recent
launches are showing good momentum with 19% growth versus prior year driven by Kisqali,
Jakavi, Promacta/Revolade and Kymriah. And together these products now contribute to half of
the overall oncology sales, allowing us to more than offset losses from continued generic erosion
of Glivec, Afinitor and Exjade/Jadenu in the US.
In Q2, the oncology market continued to be affected by COVID-19. Oncologists are reporting that
there's caseload depending on geography is still 25% to 50% below pre-COVID level and most
affected areas are our breast cancer portfolio, recent launches and hospital initiated therapies
like Kymriah and Lutathera.
Looking at Kymriah, this grew globally 19% and it was driven by strong ex-US growth and
geographic expansion. In the US, we remain very competitive. However, overall demand in the
class has slowed down and Lutathera sales were growing 10% in Q2. The ex-US growth was
double-digit and we also saw positive signals in the US as it is emerging from COVID and referral
started to increase. So overall, we remain confident that patient visits to hospitals will increase
and treatment patterns will further improve in the second half of the year leading to acceleration
of growth in these segments.
Moving to slide 27, I wanted to share a bit on our performance in the US. US remains our biggest
market globally and is contributing to over 40% of our overall oncology sales. Our growth brands
and launches contribute to 49% of sales. The US market is slowly recovering from the pandemic
with oncologist case load now reaching 75% of pre-COVID level.
However, testing rates for the most common tumor types remain suppressed in Q1, delaying
diagnosis and new prescriptions. In Q2, we have seen partial recovery of our growth drivers andrecent launches, together growing 10% versus previous year and also accelerating whereas
previous quarter. So this was mainly driven by Promacta, Kisqali and Tafinlar. Overall with
continued recovery of the market, we expect acceleration of sales in the US in the second half of
the year.
Moving to Kisqali on slide 28, Kisqali delivered strong performance in second quarter, growing
36% with sales of 225 million. The uptake was mainly driven by continued momentum in patient
share gains ex-US and particularly in Europe. Kisqali is the market leader in pre-menopausal
setting in France, Italy and Spain.
And in the US, we have also seen Kisqali sales getting traction, delivering 17% versus previous
quarter, driven by increased demand and new patient starts. We see increased field force reach
in those accounts where access restrictions were lifted and we also continue to leverage digital
engagement based on dynamic targeting.
At ASCO, we presented updated OS data from our MONALEESA-3 trial that showed consistent
OS benefit with a median OS of 4.5 years. And with this data, Kisqali demonstrated a longest OS
in post menopausal patients and is the only CDK 4/6 t inhibitor with data in first-line with
fulvestrant. We believe that these excellent results may be attributed to the unique profile of
Kisqali versus other CDK 4/6 inhibitors, with a preferential inhibition to CDK4 over CDK6 and a
high concentration to inhibit a target. In addition, we are going into the ativa setting with our
NATALEE study, exploring Kisqali in both intermediate and high-risk population.
And just to remind you, this population represents around 70% of the adjuvant early breast
cancer population and as a clear unmet medical need. I'm very pleased to report that the
enrollment of the NATALEE study is completed and we are on track for readout in 2022.
Moving to slide 29, as you heard from Vas, we are very excited about data from the VISION trial
that positions Lutetium PSMA well to potentially address the unmet needs of more than 80% of
men with late stage advanced prostate cancer, who express PSMA receptors. And just to remind
you that prostate cancer is the second most diagnosed cancer globally and in the majority of
cases patients unfortunately develop metastases at the time of castration resistant prostate
cancer diagnosis. Earlier in June, we got Breakthrough Therapy granted by the FDA and filing to
FDA is on track for the second half of '21. We are fully in launch preparation, we focus on the top
200 Treatment Centers and are also working on raising awareness on the clinical relevance of
PSMA.
Very pleased to see growth and the PSMA awareness has doubled among the target physicians
over the last months. And just to reassure you that we have adequate capacity to meet the
demand for the current launch, so our focus will be on driving referrals from community centers
where 70% of prostate cancer patients are treated. When you model the Lutetium PSMA launch,
keep in mind that hospitals need to set up processes and licenses and patients need to be
selected through PSMA PET scannings. And these sectors are likely to drive a more gradual
uptake at launch versus what you saw with the bolus effect on Lutathera.
Moving to the next slide, slide 30. I would like to talk about launch preparation for asciminib, the
first STAMP inhibitor that has the potential to transform CML treatment standards again. In the
Phase 3 study, asciminib nearly doubled the major molecular response at 24 weeks compared to
Bosutinib. We have completed filings for FDA and EMA earlier in June and the FDA has granted
two breakthrough therapy designations and fasttrack designations for asciminib and is reviewing
the file under real-time oncology review.As we are preparing for the launch, our focus is on raising awareness on the importance of
STAMP inhibition to overcome resistance and minimizing of target events typical for TKIs. Aided
awareness has already reached 75% and just to remind you the third line indication for asciminib
has already blockbuster potential. But we are also very excited by the potential benefit that
asciminib may provide to CML patients in first-line setting. Despite the advancements in
treatment of CML over the last 20 years, there are still around 50% of patients who relapse or
intolerant to imatinib in first line.
And more than 30% of patients suffer from TKI related non hematological AEs. We believe that in
earlier lines of CML treatment, I'm assuming it may prevent resistance to currently available TKIs
and therefore we are initiating a Phase 3 study of asciminib versus investigator selected TKIs, this
enrollment plan to start in the second half of 2021.
So moving to slide 31. We have made great progress on our innovation agenda and '21 is a very
important year in terms of readouts and submission. In addition to the VISION data, we had
multiple readouts like positive data from Iptacopan in PNH, Alpelisib in PROS, Kymriah in follicular
lymphoma and OS data for Lutathera. Canakinumab readout in second-line non-small cell lung
cancer did unfortunately not show positive data, but it is very important to mention that we have
2 more studies ongoing in first-line and at the one non-small cell lung cancer, with the first-line
trial on track to readout in second half of '21.
Later in the year, we're also expecting Kymriah to readout in second-line non-Hodgkin's
lymphoma and Kisqali OS data from MONALEESA tool. In terms of submission, we have
completed submissions for GVHD for JAKAVI in Europe and Japan, Tabrecta in Europe and
Asciminib in third line US and Europe. And for H2, we are on track for filing of Lutetium PSMA,
Kymriah and follicular lymphoma and second line on non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and Tislelizumab in
non-small cell lung cancer and second line esophageal cancer.
So exciting times ahead for oncology, big thank you to all the teams and with that, I hand over to
Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you, Susanna. Good morning and good afternoon everybody. So I'm now going to
walk you through some of the financials for the second quarter and the first half of the year. And
as always, my comments refer to growth rates in constant currencies unless otherwise noted. So
on slide 33, you see the summary of our operational performance for the second quarter and the
first half. We had a strong quarter 2, resulting in a solid first half performance despite the impact
of COVID during the period. Quarter two, net sales grew 9% to 13 billion, driven by our key
growth drivers. And core operating income grew 13% to 4.3 billion, mainly driven by the higher
sales and favorable gross margin, partly offset by higher investments.
Core EPS growth was also up 16% to USD1.66 and free cash flow grew 17% in US dollars to 4.2
billion. Of course, we appreciate the benefit on comparison from the low base in quarter two
2020 due to the COVID destocking in the prior year. However, even when excluded, we still
return to healthy growth with sales up 5% on core operating income growing 4% quarter two
2021 underlying. Our half 1 performance was solid with 3% growth on the top line and 2% on the
bottom line. Core EPS grew 5% to $3.17 and free cash flow was 6 billion. Of course for half 1 to
quarter 2, quarter 1, destocking, stocking from the prior year has washed out, so these values
represent underlying growth of half 1, 2021.
Next slide please. So on slide 34 I want to dive into our performance during the quarter bybottom line growth and a margin of 37%. Even if we adjust for last year's lower base, we still saw
strong growth with Innovative Medicine sales increasing 7% and core operating income up 6%.
The Innovative Medicines performance was driven by continued strong double-digit growth of our
key growth drivers including Cosentyx, Entresto, Zolgensma and the oncology launch brands. And
as Vas mentioned earlier in the presentation, our growth drivers and launches are driving portfolio
rejuvenation and now account for over half of our Innovative Medicine sales. Of course, the
pandemic still impacts our business particularly Sandoz retail and the anti-infective segment.
However, the Sandoz business is now beginning to stabilize with sales up plus 5% in quarter 2 and
bottom line growing 3%, although growth did also benefit from prior year destocking. Now
turning to our full-year guidance on slide 35. We confirm full-year guidance for both the Group
sales and core operating income. For sales, we continue to expect low to mid single digit growth
in 2021. And for the bottom line, we expect mid-single digit growth ahead of sales.
For Innovative Medicines and Sandoz we are also not making any changes. We continue to expect
Innovative Medicines division sales to grow mid single-digit and core operating income to grow
mid to high single-digit ahead of sales. And for Sandoz, we continue to expect sales to decline in
the low to mid single digit range and core operating income to decline low to mid teens. The key
assumption for the guidance is that we see a continuation of the return to normal global
healthcare systems and prescribing dynamics in the second half of this year. And in addition, we
continue to assume that no Gilenya and no Sandostatin LAR generics would enter in 2021 in the
US.
On next slide, we provide some detail on our expectations for the second half of the year. We
expect top line growth to accelerate from 3% in half 1 to mid single digit, bringing us to the low to
mid single-digit range for the full year. Our assumption is that this will be driven by growth
acceleration as we continue to return to normal prescribing behaviors, as well as further Sandoz
stabilization. We expect core operating income growth to be high-single digit in half two, reaching
our mid-single digit expectation for the full-year. Core operating income growth will be driven by
higher sales and ongoing productivity programs partly offset by increased investments in our
growth drivers and pipeline.
It is possible that we could reach to higher end of the ranges we have provided, but as you know
the COVID situation still remains fluid. Finally on slide 37, as currencies are constantly changing, I
want to bring to your attention the estimated currency impact on our results using the current
exchange rates. So if mid July rates prevail for the remainder of 2021, the full-year impact of
currencies on sales would be positive 2% and on core operating income positive 2% to 3% points.
For quarter 3, it would be positive 1% point on sales and positive 1 to 2 points on core operating
income. And as a reminder, we always update this estimated currency impact on our website on a
monthly basis.
And with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So moving to the next slide, when you look at 2021, we have a broad range of
catalysts still to go, it was a good pipeline delivery over the course of the year. So we look
forward to keeping you updated as we continue to advance these assets and programs and also
note our mid-stage pipeline continues to generate I think exciting new innovations which we hope
will emerge and be able to add to our pipeline over the course of the second half.
Now moving to the last slide just to close, as I noted at the beginning, our consistent long-termgrowth outlook for the company. We've had strong performance in Q2 driven by the key growth
drivers as you've seen throughout the presentation. And we've also continued to advance our
pipeline of novel medicines, you've seen the positive readouts across Iptacopan, Lu-PSMA and
others. And we are reconfirming our full-year 2021 guidance, our commitment to drive long-term
accretive growth and again thank you for your commitment to the company.
And so with that, I'll ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions)
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Operator, if I could just say one thing, if questioners could limit themselves to two questions,
we'd appreciate it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your first question today comes from the line of `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein `
Oh, great, thank you very much for taking my questions, `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. To
confirm, I'm just curious how the royalties are thinking about the potential impact of the SGLT2 of
interest followings in the recent positive data in the preserved ejection fraction population and a
few of these drugs have quite a robust profile in heart failure, reasonably well priced and have
demonstrated efficacy on top and in interest in naive patients. So do you expect to see any
impact, I'm just curious in your level of confidence that these drugs will not be used ahead of
Entresto.
My second question is just on Iptacopan, clearly lots of interesting data recently for the drug
across multiple indications, but I'm just curious how Novartis is thinking about it from a commercial
perspective. I appreciate this will come down to timelines and which indications demonstrate
efficacy in Phase 3, but you know there quite a different size of markets and competitive
dynamics are quite different. So ultimately, how Novartis is going to prioritize, should we see
success across multiple indications particularly given the acceptable price points by -- indications
could be quite different and competition from the like to Apellis [ph] could limit the potential.
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Wimal. So first on the SGLT2 is Marie-France.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President-Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So thanks for the question. As you rightly said, the SGLT2's are add-ons and so we expect them
to continue to be used predominantly in diabetes patients. Even if we think about the new
readout of path, we've really only seen the press release and would have to look at the full data
because the trials were really quite different. The bottom line is actually Entresto has a unique
position and it's got a broad label in the US that's covering 5 out of 6 patients with chronic heartfailure. We are very strong with the cardiologists and we're going to focus on making sure that
70% of the half ref patients who are in previous standard of care switch to Entresto. So, I think
between the compelling data, the strong guideline support that we have, the commercial
infrastructure, the excellent team that we have in place, we have what it takes to continue the
momentum with Entresto and if patients need an add-on then an SGLT2 is the right thing to do.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then -- thanks, Marie-France. And with respect to Iptacopan, I think our overall strategies you
can see, it's fully leveraged, the unique mechanism and profile of this medicine across the range
of indications we've outlined. Now of course, it will be data driven and the sequencing will be
determined by the data, but our goal is on the one hand to disrupt existing markets with the fact
that we have a safe oral that can be given broadly to patients who at the moment are taking at
least -- at the moment taking IVs on a ongoing basis and so we think there is a very attractive
profile there. And then to enter into completely new market segments in renal disease,
hematological illnesses, they currently don't have a very strong standard of care. And so that's
how you're going to see us approach the launch, fully maximize the asset across the full range of
numerous indications we're pursuing.
Thanks, Wimal. Next question.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great, thanks for taking my questions. So first one is on Kesimpta, just wondering what
percentage of drug dispenses free drug in first half and how you expect that to be in second half
because you said you expect demand to double to H and I think if you take first half sales and
add-on twice that you get to around consensus of 350, but if you're getting less free drug could
you actually beat the consensus number? And then secondly, on the NATALEE trial, now the
recruitment is complete, can you narrow the window downs when in 2022 we might see the data
even just is that do you think it's a first half or second half event? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham. On Kesimpta, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President-Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah. So on Kesimpta, our key focus is really on broad adoption in early lines of therapy and I say
that because I think it's really important for our strategy that everyone understand that we want
to ensure the value of high efficacy B-cell therapy early. As I said in my opening comments, we
have about 500 new prescribers and we've also got about twice as many patients on consensus
Q1, all patients are starting on free drug. And even though our free to paid conversion is
happening really quickly, there is always a bit of a lag. So in the second half of the year, we know
we have the fundamentals in place, we know we still have some scaling to do around familiarity of
the brand given that Kesimpta is new in market.And we're going to focus, we're going to continue our focus on leading share of voice on the
differentiation and really on consistently enabling fast and easy initiation. So for the full-year,
we're comfortable with external expectations. We know what we need to do to double demand
in Q2 and really deliver a strong Q4, medium-term we expect Kesimpta to be a major growth
driver for the company.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marie-France. And then on NATALEE time being, John?
A - `John Tsai, Head-Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer for Novartis `
Yeah, thanks for the question, Graham. On NATALEE which is our adjuvant study for Kisqali, as we
disclosed earlier last year that we've increased the recruitment from 4,000 to 5,000 patients.
And this includes both the intermediate and high-risk patients who have had advanced breast
cancer. Our final result that we expect to readout is going to be at the end of next year and that's
how it's currently powered. As we said previously, we're not disclosing in term. So we are
currently powered for the end of the year next year for our final readout.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. So, thanks for asking the questions, Graham. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead, your
line is open.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. My first question is about marketing spend. So we saw in the second quarter of last
year clearly very little on the sales side and a dramatic constriction of everybody's marketing
spend. And then could you give us some idea how you've opened that up, what sort of level of
your marketing capacity you're at now in the second quarter as you enter the third quarter. And
how you think marketing spend might be able to be sustained perhaps a lower level going
forwards, I don't know more use of digital order, but if we can get a sense of whether you feel
how confident you are in a reduction in your long-term marketing spend because of all the things
that you've learned with COVID.
My second question would be to ask for a bit more detail on China, you've talked about drugs
where you've tripled sales quadrupled sales. Can you just give us a little bit of an idea of your
level of investment, any level of ambition in China, please.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Joe. So first on marketing, it's been trends -- Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, Jo. So on the marketing spend, it's actually playing out as we guided through earlier in
the year, which is as you pointed out quarter two spend is quite higher than last year quarter 2
where basically all major markets were lockdown, maybe other than China, but also in US. So
that's why we guided also that in the first half, we wouldn't see margin improvement and I think
with the sales of 3% and core operating income of 2% we saw that also playing out.So, I would expect continued especially quarter 3 where also last year spend levels were low that
marketing and sales growth is -- at a certain healthy level given the investment need, but of
course within our guidance be it on our productivity programs, on manufacturing and overall the
expected sales growth that then in the second half also as we had more normal I would say
spend levels in quarter 4 last year that displays out, laid out that in half two we will have some
very nice margin improvement that leads to the full-year guidance of margin improvement.
Now in the mid-term, I do expect that SG&A will be together with manufacturing, productivity on
cost of goods, be the major driver of our margin increases, especially Innovative Medicines to the
high '30s. And certainly a change in mix, somewhat a bit more to virtual or digital, but still face to
face in most markets being important especially for launch initiation, but I would expect that
SG&A is one of the major drivers to continue to improve in the mid-term of our margin.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And on China, Jo, first to take a step back, a few years ago we began investment
effort in China, really putting in the necessary infrastructure both in pharma and oncology, building
out sales forces to really enable us to drive longer-term growth. And then second, we adopted a
development strategy to bring our full portfolio of medicines to China as well as including China
in our Phase 3 programs at the start, so given the changes in the regulatory framework there that
would enable us in early roll ons.
Now path forward today, we were growing in the high teens percentages in China overall from a
business run track, on our stated goal to double the size of our China business from the 2020
baseline. We expect to be current trends prevail one of the top three players amongst
multinationals if not more in China by 2024, 2025, that's driven primarily by new medicine, so
overcoming any of the medicines that ultimately get tendered, drive our newer portfolio driving
the growth.
We have 50 potential approvals in that in that timeframe, continued strong success on the NRDL
as things as you saw with Cosentyx. So we expect China to become the second largest market
for Novartis in the world and we see profitable, accretive growth being driven from there and
we'll continue to look to invest prudently in China over the years to come.
So thanks for the question, next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you, a couple of questions please. First on Kisqali and the NATALEE trial, given the
outcome of the Penana [ph] PB trial with Ibrance, how comfortable are you that your disease free
survival data you'll have at the end of next year has significant, sufficient duration on it to satisfy
the FDA without wanting to see further follow-up. And then second question on business
development, we've seen a rash of your competitors doing, develop neurodegenerative deals.
You've obviously had the surprising approval of Canakinumab. How is that influencing your
interest in the neurodegenerative space? And then if you could also comment on your
Chairman's recent comments of Novartis' interest in mRNA as a platform. Many thanks.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. On the Kisqali situation, John, you want to take that?
A - `John Tsai, Head-Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer for Novartis `
Sure. Thanks for the question, Andrew and as we've taken a look, as I said earlier, we've
increased the number of patients in our NATALEE trial from 4,000 to 5,000 including both
intermediate and high-risk patients. As we look at this patient population, there is a couple of
things that we focus on. One is we have a longer treatment duration, looking at a duration of 3
years for the overall treatment.
So that should give us confidence in the approach. We've also looked at the adherence of
patients particularly in the first year. As we look at these patients, as you know, in the early
treatment of these patients, micro metastatic disease is important and what we've seen at least
across both arms is that the patients are adhering and staying on drug at a 400-milligram dose.
So with those two specific components, we feel comfortable with the readout at the end of next
year.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. And so on business development, we of course are watching the changes in the
approach to use of the accelerated approval pathway. As we've already noted in
neurodegenerative diseases, we have the ongoing program in Huntington's disease entering
Phase 2b and we'll certainly consider how best potentially bring that forward if there is ways to
accelerate regulatory submission assuming positive clinical trials.
And then also internally, we've had neurodegeneration efforts within the country for many
decades as you know and we continue to have programs targeting Alzheimer's disease,
Huntington's as well as other neurodegenerative diseases both using biologics RNA interference,
sRNAs and ASO's as well gene therapies.
So that will continue. No specific comments on EDNL [ph] in the neurodegenerative space, of
course we are looking as always for attractive assets to bring in given our broad based efforts in
neuroscience.
On mRNA, again not much more to add. I think we've watched as how mRNA continues to have
value in the COVID space and are curious to see could mRNA have applicability more broadly
within the vaccine space. We have our own ingoing -- ongoing efforts internally obviously with
Inclisiran in manufacturing for SI RNAs with pelacarsen, with antisense, nucleotide where
substantial factor of those technologies and also have internal efforts on RNA interference. So
that work will continue and we'll continue to evaluate if there is any sensible approaches in mRNA
more broadly, but nothing imminent at the moment. So, thanks, Andrew for the questions. Next
question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah, thank you very much. Firstly on Kesimpta, I wonder if you give us the direct share in the US
currently. And then in terms of thinking about those 13 launches anticipated by the end of 2021,
how we should think about the advantages and disadvantages of a sub-cut formulation for a B-And then secondly on Inclisiran, two parts, first part, what are your latest thoughts around FDA
site inspection, how should we think about the future supply split between yourselves and the
third-party. And then you sort of mentioned these new initiatives, the INITIATE-V inception which
kicking-off now ahead of out comes in 2026, could you elaborate a little bit more on those
initiatives and others you are looking to increase evidence based behind Inclisiran before you wait
for those outcomes data. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark. So first on Kesimpta subcutaneous outside the US, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President-Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, so, Kesimpta is an important launch for us outside of the US. And if I just -- if I look at
Europe alone, we've got 420,000 patients living with MS and many of these patients are on low
efficacy therapy, actually many more patients are in lower efficacy therapies versus the US. So
what we also know, you're working, currently working through reimbursement and to accelerate
access, but what we also know is that a lot of these patients don't have access to infusion center.
So our research tells us that physicians and patients will appreciate a self-administered, high
efficacy therapy that can be used in the comfort of a patient's home. So right now, we're working
with each country through their own reimbursement system and we know what we need to do to
bring Kesimpta as quickly as possible to patients around the globe.
On your NBRx question currently our NBRx share in the US is 11%.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I would also note on Kesimpta, if you look at one case study in the UK our ability to get rapid
access there I think demonstrates the value in ex-US markets of subcutaneous formulation where
the overall cost effectiveness of the therapy is high on the systems mind. On Inclisiran, just on the
manufacturing side of things in the US, our intention at the moment is to focus production out of
our Schaftenau, Novartis owned Schaftenau facility. We can't predict on whether or not the FDA
will inspect is noted -- notable in this site is regularly inspected has been recently, this very line
has been recently inspected by FDA using a remote inspection and approved for use in a given
indication. And so we'll have to see what the FDA ultimately determines, but I think it's notable
that this is a line that's regularly used and inspected by the FDA. And then in terms of the data
initiatives maybe Marie-France on the efforts of build out data on Inclisiran.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President-Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, so, I mean you saw some of that on the slide and obviously learning from Entresto, we
know that we need to build evidence generation. You know about our efforts on the outcomes
data ORION-4. We're also looking at primary prevention studies, but we're also looking to
complement with the V-INITIATE trial for example on the different ways of accessing Inclisiran
when it comes to acute coronary syndrome or use or no use of enzalutamide, so that's the level
of evidence in generation that we want to build around the products, so that we can ensure fast
uptake.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah and I just want to add that, we continue to work with various important parties. So we hope
to have update over the second half of the year on our partnership with the NHS on Inclisiran,
that's something we've highlighted in the past, that will be a very important proof point that
Inclisiran can be used at a large scale in health care systems. We're also partnering with major
organizations in the United States such as the American Heart Association and we hope to
announce others which I think will also demonstrate that we can generate evidence, but also
generate large scale utilization volume demand for medicine.
So we'll keep you updated as those happen. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for taking the question from Deutsche Bank. May be a question on Sabatolimab MDS-1
deferral effect of deferral for PFS readout in the original very long pending guidance would be for
a filing on the CR readout in the second half this year. So what can we interpret on efficacy from
that data monitoring decision or recommendation to continue until the PFS readout unless I'm
mistaken out a couple of years away. So does that impact your guidance around that being
potential blockbuster billion dollar plus indication. And then a question on Zolgensma, you've
given health guidance around 20% newborn screening rates in Europe. Does that inflate next
year or is it going to be a relatively slow incremental build, how are you progressing in terms of
national level discussions about particularly in light of as you said pre-symptomatic data. And then
if I may just a quick one on the intrathecal, it sounds like not much has changed since Q1 things
have then you had agreement on the trial and you're waiting for the clinical hold to be lifted, so is
it -- are those discussions ongoing or is anything new interesting happened in the last few
months? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Emmanuel. So first on the Sabatolimab CR readout, John?
A - `John Tsai, Head-Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer for Novartis `
Yeah, for the Sabatolimab, as you know the start chem 3 compound our first-in-class IO therapy
for myelodysplastic syndrome and AML. As we design the study, we always had two primary
endpoints. The first primary endpoint being complete remission and the second endpoint being
progression-free survival.
And as we read out the complete remission, we reached the number of endpoints in the earlier
part of this year. At that point, the DMC Data Monitoring Committee came back and told us to
continue the study as originally planned. So you've seen the slide that we shared earlier by Vas in
terms of the number of readouts.
As you've seen, we actually look at not only MDS, but also AML. So as we look at this, we do think
that this is a differentiated asset for not only for us to think about high-risk MDS but also AML
based on the fact that it has a good safety profile and potentially pending results, the efficacy in
terms of durability of response. So we await the results in 2022 and '23.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `And I think we highlighted, there is multiple different filing options depending on how the results
payout and it doesn't change our belief that the medicine given it's a first-in-class asset that has a
different mechanism than any existing therapy or late stage therapy that can be a significant
billion dollar plus medicine. On Zolgensma, on the incremental NBS and how we're doing the
newborn screening, Marie-France, you want to say a word about that?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President-Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, I would just say that, so you know that in the US, the newborn screening is high. Outside the
US, I mean it really is a market by market, so it's gradual. I mean I can give you some information,
Germany will be implemented by from October, we'll see parts of Belgium screening. From the
beginning of this year,
We know that Poland is implementing gradually. We've got other countries across Europe that are
doing this. So it's a mixed picture. We're very committed to it. We know that it's really important
to start Zolgensma early. We saw that from the SPR1NT data and how amazing the results are
when babies are treated early. So, it is a priority for us.
And then of course medium-term, our goal is to bring Zolgensma to older children once we get
the IT formulation.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And just another word on that, thanks Marie-France. On the intrathecal, there's no updates, I
mean, we continue to work through resolving the FDA's concerns, but we do have the protocol,
finalized agreement with the FDA on the Phase 3 design, preparing operationally for the studies
execution with a belief that that indication can continue to be a multi-billion dollar indication for
the company and as soon as we have any updates on the preclinical topic and resolution with the
FDA we'll of course provide it.
Thank you. Next slide -- next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane BNP from Exane BNP. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane BNP `
Hi, thanks very much for taking my questions. Just two questions, firstly on sales and margins,
both your expectations for 2Q that you set out at the 1Q results, so just if you could discuss what
surprised you positively and confidence that those trends will continue given that you have an
updated guidance, just wondered if you could add your thoughts on impact of the delta variance
and maybe what you've adjusted your planning or solutions for healthcare systems opening up
on the basis of that.
And then secondly, just a question on some of your legacy oncology assets in the US specifically
Promacta, Tasigna and Tafinlar. If I look at sales per script over the last few quarters, at least in the
first half it looks like sales per script been growing in double digits, which seems to imply quite
significant price increases. I just wondered whether you could discuss that trend and whether
there are any other factors such as channel mix that might be impacting that? Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Richard. So first on sales and margins outlook, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, the line was a bit hard to understand, Richard. Could you briefly repeat?
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think the question was, were there anything that surprised us versus the Q2 guidance we gave
out through Q1 on how Q2 would play out and how do we potentially see the delta variance
impacting our guidance for the rest of the year?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so, yeah, okay. Thank you. So, Richard, obviously, we delivered a bit more than what we
thought, right? So we saw in US a bit faster reopening I would say in most of our brands. Sandoz
pretty much in line with expectation, but Innovative Medicines some better momentum overall.
And then also very good work from our manufacturing colleagues on productivity in addition to
always perfect supply levels, but overall I would say slightly ahead of our internal expectations in
quarter two.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Richard. I think on the delta variant, we continue to monitor the situation. What we
are expecting is that given the health care systems have seen the impact when they -- how they
shutdown to non, to a patient with non-communicable diseases in the substantial impact that has,
we remain optimistic that healthcare systems will ensure that patients get the care they need
while dealing with any surges that may or may not happen with respect to COVID-19.
Now on Promacta, Tasigna US performance, Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President-Novartis Oncology `
Yeah. Thanks a lot, and Richard on Promacta, actually we are very, very pleased with the
performance. As you rightly note, 18% growth and it's really across all geographies and it is
volume-driven. And it's really still our main indications ITP and SIA to give you a little bit more
granularity, on the US we had 11% growth. And may be just remind you, there was a label update
earlier this year that makes Promacta even more competitive.
We are seeing share gains increasing NBRx and of course it is the efficacy driving that. It's also the
oral convenience and is the non-immunosuppressive benefit over competitors. And therefore
very strong performance. Ex-US, we saw 26% growth versus previous year, it's very strong
underlying performance in major markets like the EU. And also just to mention, very strong
performance in China where we got their listing end of last year.
So very pleased with Promacta, similar on Tabrecta we could, sorry on mechanist (inaudible), we
could really stabilize market share and are very competitive versus new entries, very pleased with
the growth also across geographies. And also to mention for China, we are very pleased, we got
Tafmec [ph] included into the NRDL list. So really strong growth on volume base across
geographies.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Thanks, Susannae. Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator.Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Great, thanks for the question. So just two quick ones. As we think about the opportunity in MDS
and for the TIM-3 asset, I was just hoping you could give us a little bit more color on the evolution,
I just wanted to follow-up on the previous question. And specifically as it relates to the CR
response there, is that your conclusion there that the proceeding to the PFS benefit is a clear
positive moving into the subsequent events or is this just a continuation of the trial, which could
be viewed as somewhat disappointing on that side of it for the high risk MDS patient population.
The second question, obviously, you guys are talking quite strongly about the opportunity for
Asciminib, just in the third line setting blockbuster potential. Can you just talk about that relative, is
that predominantly relative to bosutinib as sort of this the primary opportunity and kind of
replacing that asset, replacing that product sales or is it really speaking to a broader opportunity
in the third line setting because of potential for duration of use expanding upon how that product
used so far. Thanks.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Seamus. So just in the interest of time on the MDS I think with the CR readout, I would say
neutral to positive, I mean neutral is saying because we were blinded, so we don't know what the
DMC saw, but I think the fact that the study will continue now to the next as the endpoint and the
positive mechanism that we see in the previous data that we've seen on the product. We remain
optimistic that both in MDS and AML we can get to positive results and bring meaningful
innovation patients. As John noted, the studies have a range of different designs, including a third
study that also takes into account the net (inaudible) so doublet and triplet's 9.
So I think we have the basis covered and we look forward to getting the additional readouts over
the coming year and a half. On the sales potential of Asciminib, Susanne, do you want to say a
word about this?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President-Novartis Oncology `
Yeah, happy to take that, Vas and maybe just on the opportunity on Sabatolimab just, why we are
very excited is because it's a completely novel mechanism, it's a TIM-3. So a hefty potential to be
the first immuno-oncology therapy in hematology in MDS and AML. And why we believe that is
important is because obviously there is now has been made progress on having more efficacious
treatments, but what we all know durability and also safety profile is still remaining challenging.
And therefore, we are very excited that Sabatolimab would have this attribute to add really huge
value to this medical need.
And on Asciminib to may be lead you a little bit through just to remind you a little bit on the
dynamics in CML. So there is still 10% to 15% of patients that progress to third line. But what you
also have to know there is a significant number of patients that remain in second line, just
because of lack of options for these patients.
Moving to third line, what we still see is a 75% failure rate, which of course is devastating and
that's why there is still a big percentage of patients sitting in second line even if treatment is not
optimum. So therefore you see that is the pool we are targeting and we also wish Asciminibexpect longer duration of the current treatment. So that is where potential comes from and I think
we still underestimate the earlier lines potential.
Of course, we have to change completely the outcome of CML, but as I said, in first-line usually
patients are started in bosutinib and there is 50% of patients that relapse. What you also have to
note that 30% of first-line patients having issues with adverse events and really are struggling for
such a long-term treatment. And that's where -- with the profile of Asciminib we expect to also
add value there and that's why we're also entering into first line.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Susanne. Next question. Thanks, Seamus. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thank you. Yes, couple from me, please. I mean just on the second half obviously, obviously
raised a formal operating profit grade kind of slide, but you're not updating the great guidance
for the current and although you've not changed the outlook dollars in the second half, what is
that within this division that comes continue caution that second-half outlook despite this
improvements you've seen in Q2. And then on Inclisiran, insight I think a question was asked on
this earlier, but just to clarify. What are your terms in the manufacturing of that drug in the future.
Can you remind us where the ex-US supply is manufactured, should we understand that the
global manufacturing sites is now the Austrian site or should we anticipate further significant
investment at some point, perhaps in the US. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Kerry. So first on the Sandoz outlook in the second half, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Kerry. So we have to remember how quarter one and quarter two have
developed here. So clearly you saw a very steep decline of quarter one and then you saw that
5% growth of Sandoz in the second quarter, but underlying if you take the prior year destocking
at minus 1. So we saw as expected a stabilization, but we have first half with a 5% decline. So in
order to be at the low to mid single-digit decline in the full-year, we continue to expect
stabilization around broadly in line for the second half for Sandoz and I think that at this moment a
very reasonable assumption.
Of course, we can all make scenarios around cough and cold and flu season in quarter 4 and the
market dynamics for that, we have taken a midpoint scenario on this. So overall I would say of
course volatility given that the COVID situation and how the cough and cold season would be, but
overall I would say our guidance is quite starting from a minus 5% decline in half one quite
reasonable that Sandoz would stabilize than a few for us to five launches in the second half so
that helps, but we have to see also how the pricing in the US continues to develop. So, I would
say not overly cautious, but realistic.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Harry and then, Kerry, on manufacturing, it's important to note when you take a step
back, our overall goal is to have Novartis be the primary manufacturing of both the upstream and
downstream parts of this SI RNA for Inclisiran. We made the necessary investments to do that. We
have substantial manufacturing capacity to synthesize the SI RNA. And then as we've noted we in
the US will move to using our Schaftenau facility. And over time globally the primary manufacturing
will be done out of Novartis facilities being supplemented by CMOs as needed.
The primary reason to do this is one, we believe the medicine will be as we've noted one of our
most significant medicines. And then second, from a COGS standpoint our goal is to drive
significantly down the cost of goods to enable large scale use of the medicine in the secondary
prevention study and eventually perhaps in the primary prevention study. So right now, ex-US we
do use third parties for both the primary and the secondary, but again over time the evolution will
be the Novartis owned facilities and those investments have already been either started or
completed.
Thanks, Kerry. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead, your
line is open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Just two please, firstly on oncology. Just looking at some of
the hospital administered drugs in particular and also some of those that require biomarker
diagnostics Companion Diagnostics to use, it actually looks as though the second quarter for
some of those drugs was sort of relatively weak compared to the first quarter certainly wasn't
sort of an uptake. I'm thinking the likes of Kymriah and Lutathera for instance, also as well I think
things like even fractured of drugs, I wonder if you could just comment on where you're seeing
that with regards to why I guess we're not seeing Q-on-Q improvements in oncology and how we
should think about that perhaps in the second half of the year in the gating factors. And then
second is we'll talk about the Harry's comment that we could reach the higher end of the outlook
ranges that COVID situation remains fluid, should we take that to mean that if COVID situation
pans out as we currently see the higher end of the ranges is where we should be thinking or
should we take that as thinking that you just don't know when you still see uncertainty, I guess,
curious sort of where you're thinking with regards to the current COVID situation, but the situation
has to deteriorate significantly for that to be not valid. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Peter. So to briefly, Susanne on the hospital administered oncology.
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President-Novartis Oncology `
Yeah, thank you, Vas and thank you, Peter for the question. So as I mentioned in my presentation,
these areas that you mentioned is hospital-initiated areas, but also of course where you have
new launches, this is still impacted by COVID especially when you look at the US that only 75% of
patients are back versus pre-COVID levels.
So we still lack a force or a quarter of patients volume that we usually saw and that is impacting
for example diagnostics, it's impacting screening and that's of course Tabrecta would be such a
brand where you see lower biopsies, you see lower testing rates overall. I have to say when youlook this in the ones that are tested Tabrecta and testing for CMD is increasing, but it's just
suppressed patient volumes and this is same what we see for hospital initiated product. Just to
give you some figures on Kymriah as I said, 19% versus previous year, but we saw that especially
in the US, the whole class saw a reduced demand and while we stay very competitive with
Kymriah and that is really linked to reason also manufacturing success rate that the customers are
very pleased about.
It's really the demand that we saw in the whole class going down. And on Lutathera, there is
some early positive signs in the US. We have seen growth versus previous year as some now
refers are started, but it's still very, very suppressed. And we remain confident that with now the
market opening up, centers taking more patients and this should improve and accelerate.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Susanne. And then Peter on the outlook as Harry noted, yes multiple dynamics of
course we're monitoring. But if the business dynamics continue as we currently see them if
oncology can continue its recovery and Sandoz remains in a stable situation, given the strong
growth we're seeing in our growth drivers. There's certainly the potential for us to be at the
higher end of the guidance and we'll of course keep you updated in quarter 3.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS `
Hello, thanks. First question is on Leqvio, please. Have you faced any patients in the U.K. under
your program there yet. I think you said the program was starting this quarter and what setting will
those early doses be given in and are these patients being seen in the hospital or you have
managed to get it into primary care from the word go.
And then second question is just on Entresto. Could you maybe talk a little bit about the uptake in
the past population? Thanks.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks Laura. So first on Leqvio, the agreement, we're still working through the final stages
with the NHS and we have not hit those patients in the U.K. The agreement, though, has the
aspiration that this would be rolled out in primary care from day one at scale, trying to address
the ASCVD population and get the U.K. towards its long-term goal in cardiovascular health. So, we
hopefully will have updates in the coming months on that pioneering initiative, which we hope will
catalyze the Leqvio's global impact over the coming years. In Entresto HFpEF, and I'll just start
taking the questions given the time and Entresto HFpEF, we do see, I think the uptake already and
you can see that in the NBRx, but it's still early days. And I think as we continue the rollout in the
education as well as the awareness on the guidelines, we would expect to see continued growth
for in Entresto. We see a strong outlook for the brand. We're confident will be in that $4 billion to
$5 billion range and as we continue to see the trajectory, we'll provide further updates on the
long-term outlook for Entresto in the coming months.
Thanks, Laura. Next question, Operator?Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. On Cosentyx thinking about Omalizumab, they've got some good exposure recently
with publication of their data in the New England Journal beats your product on efficacy, has a one
side effect of oral candidiasis. How much do you think this product will impact Cosentyx and do
you think that one side effect is a material impairment to their product and your view. And then on
Tislelizumab your partnered PD-1, how realistic we will compete in a setting like lung in western
markets. Can you and your partner assure as you won't be disruptive on price. I ask because you
ask Merck guys for price erosion over time in the category. I'm wondering who's going to be
driving that?
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Tim. So first on Cosentyx, when you look at the dynamics, we've been able to take
on competitions consistently over the recent years, continue to grow the brand double-digit, as
Marie-France noted, 20% plus that's driven both in dermatology and in rheumatology. We are --
we note the additional competitors coming in. I can't comment specifically on Tislelizumab[ph],
but we do think that Cosentyx's very clean safety profile, the fact that it's used in such a broad
range of dermatology offices and consistently across patient types. It's ability to address scalp,
palmar, plantar psoriasis, as well as the joint manifestations and the fact that we have additional
indications. We're not concerned by additional IL17 entrants and really our focus now given that
we've been able to effectively hold price in the U.S. market despite some disruptive attempts.
We are confident now that our focus has to be on the next wave of indications to drive this brand
well beyond the $5 billion benchmark we've already put out there.
On Tislelizumab, you've seen the esophageal cancer filing, we're moving towards first and
second line non-small cell lung cancer, we do believe that we'll be able to market this medicine
from a competitive standpoint given our long presence, particularly outside the U.S., but also in
the U.S., we'll be prudent in how we think about the pricing. But we do think we can make a
compelling value proposition. Longer term, the real opportunity for us is in combination will be
taking forward Tislelizumab in combination with our SHP2 inhibitor in combination with some of
our RLT agents amongst other opportunities. And so we're going to work to both maximize on
the combination side as well as take as much as we can of of a very large PD-1 market given the
broad range of indications we expect the agent to have. Thanks, Tim.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thanks for taking my questions. Two please, if I may. Just going back to Leqvio, I wonder if you
could give us some idea of the ramp to 300,000 patients given the unusual situation you're
having, not only in reimbursement but also utilization. And then secondly, moving on to Sandoz,Harry you gave the principal drivers for expansion of the IM margin over time. I wonder if you
could do the same for the Sandoz margin. Thanks so much.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Simon. So for Leqvio in the UK, it's going to be driven by our ability to work with the
UK to get primary care physicians to diagnose these patients out of the NHS data systems and
then rapidly get them on to Leqvio, I think it'll be a slow initial ramp and then we hope to see a
rapid ramp-up. In the US, we've done a very good job of targeting the relevant integrated health
systems to hopefully be prepared to have a reasonable uptake initially, but again, it will take time
to get those centers on board. In parallel, we'll also have a traditional launch with our traditional
sales and marketing approach leveraging the interests of field force and reach. So, on approval in
the U.S., we'll go very -- obviously, out very strongly. It will take time to get the brand up but then
once we think we get momentum, we expect the brand as we've guided to be a very significant
multibillion dollar medicine for the company.
Mid-term Sandoz margins will be driven by a portfolio shift with the biosimilar portfolio, a large
number of biosimilars in the mid-20s, we expect to get forward. I get into the market and some
of them first-in-class first -- hopefully to market such as Natalizumab amongst others. And then on
top of that, the ability to launch additional injectables and oral solids while continuing to drive
down cost of goods, so you'll have a mix shift to higher margin products as well as the continued
efficiency gains and cost of goods. And then lastly, Richard and team are working hard to
optimize the manufacturing and sales leveraging digital technologies. And I think that will be the
other element that will help us get to those mid to high 20s margins in Sandoz.
Thanks, Simon. Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please go ahead, your line is
open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. I have two questions. First on AVXS-101, can any findings from the preclinical
intrathecal safety studies be shared with us today, so that's the first question.
And then on the second question relates to the Kisqali adjuvant interim look in NATALEE, I'm
curious if this look has already occurred if it has, then it would seem to be a material update and
you would have announced it. So I assume that it has not yet occurred but please confirm? Thank
you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks Steve. On AVXS-101, I see the preclinical data we've seen today do not indicate any
concerns. However, we need to complete the relevant assessments and of course, ultimately
agree with FDA and the listing of clinical hold. And so we'll keep you updated as that progresses.
And NATALEE interim has not occurred. But as we've guided to we're not -- no longer guiding to
interim analysis timings and focusing on the final outcomes. John, as he mentioned earlier in the
call, we expect that to be in the back half of next year and of course as we learn more in that
study we'll keep you updated.
Thanks, Steve. Next question, Operator?Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Hi there, thanks for taking my question. Two please. In the UK, we've recently seen (inaudible) in
hospitals, partly due to COVID and partly because obviously, trying to work through. We've seen
electives and oncology appointments been delayed as a result. Are you seeing any signs of
anything similar in the U.S. as you go to a few states where hospitalizations are rising pretty
quickly, I was wondering whether or not that's -- you're seeing early signs of that in the U.S. and
secondly on Asciminib, do you expect interactions to be flat on label pivotal in the earlier studies
and expect that to impact especially with generic spots in the market. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks Naresh. On the U.S., we currently don't see any shifts in utilization that are notable,
other than what we've already seen in the oncology is below pre-COVID levels. Cardiovascular is
also below pre-COVID levels though Entresto continues to have very strong performance and
patients with heart failure seemed to be getting the medicine as expected. So, nothing that we
can flag at this point, and also no clinical trials are enrolling on time. So we have learned a lot
about managing, I think the healthcare systems have learned a lot about managing COVID, we've
learned a lot about managing our trials and the uptick of our medicines during COVID. So
hopefully, we can navigate this next period successfully. But certainly something we're watching
very, very closely.
I think it's too soon to comment on specifics on Asciminib's label. I would know that the safety
profile was remarkably clean when you look at the -- it was a head to head study versus Bosutinib
across all relevant safety markers. It was a very clean profile, patient stayed on drugs. So we're
optimistic that overall the Asciminib profile will be attractive, which is a part of the reason as well,
as Susanne had mentioned, we're quite confident that if it ultimately proves superior, it can be a
very effective first line therapy.
Next question, Operator? Thanks, Naresh.
Operator
Thank you. You. Your next question comes from Marshall (inaudible). Please go ahead, your line is
open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. I would like to come back on the Sandoz
business and thank you for your previous answer on the H2. We understand the next step with
the top line improvement driven by the pipeline with biosimilars and the function of generics, but
could you share with us your vision on the improvement of the (inaudible) mid-term. Do you see
any concrete operational leverage on the cost or due to the improvement of the top line
expected and the affiliated cost plus the price erosion. Should we consider stabilization of this
activity for the next year, if you could give us more color maybe to help us to manage core EBIT
margin in the next quarters and yeah, thank you very much.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yes, Marshall, I don't think I fully picked up the question, but I'll give my best answer. So when we
look at Sandoz is Sandoz evolution over time from a margin standpoint, first right now our goal is
invest and create a very strong pipeline performance in this period of time both biosimilars and
oral solids. So in the coming years you're not going to see big shifts in the margin or the
operating leverage, but our belief is given, Richard, is driving very strong efficiency gains across
all relevant P&L items and we continue to expect important pipeline delivery in biosimilars, in
respiratory, in oral solids.
When that pipeline delivery happens then we expect the margin in the mid-term to be accretive
and move up into that mid to high '20s. So the shape is going to be stable for the period next
few years and then we expect acceleration and margin improvement for Sandoz as that portfolio
ultimately comes through. So I think that's the best way to think about it.
And I think that was the -- we have one more question, so operator could we go to the last
question? Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your last question today comes from `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you and thank you for taking my questions. Vas if I may, your introductory comments on
Sandoz talking about the strategic region in the long term to be almost like setting the narrative
for 2022 decision on the longer-term outlook for Sandoz. Am I over interpreting your comments
or is that the timeframe which we should expect a broad decision on whether Sandoz is a part of
Novartis and not longer-term. That's question number one.
And then question number two, we are getting very close to on an annualized basis kind of the
peak sales numbers you provided for Cosentyx and kind of Entresto. So I'm wondering kind of
why we haven't seen updated kind of peak sales estimates for those two products, is there
anything from a competitive or a market perspective that what is you or was this just not the right
opportunity for you to address the longer-term peak opportunity for those products. Thank you.
A - `Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Keyur and good to hear from you. On the Sandoz result updates or changes, I mean our
goal right now is to put Sandoz in a strong position, invest in the business so that it can be on a
track to be the leading generics company in the world which we think, it can be from a financial as
well as impact standpoint. If and when we take any decisions or start a process we'll of course let
you know. But right now our focus is on the operational performance to Sandoz and supporting
Richard and his team to driving that mid single-digit growth in margin expansion that we've
outlined.
I think on your second question, I think we are very pleased with the trajectory of Entresto and
Cosentyx. You are correct that we are approaching the sales outlook of 4 billion to 5 billion we
guided to in Entresto and 5 billion plus in Cosentyx. Our current plan is that meet the
management, we'll provide an updated outlook on both of those brands, especially as we
understand better the dynamic, but certainly would want to highlight, we are confident in both of
those brands to be very strong pillars of Novartis in the years to come.So, thanks everyone for joining today's conference call. Apologies, we ran a bit over. We'll keep
you updated. Thank you for the interest in the company and please stay safe and healthy and
we'll look forward to speaking soon. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.