Q2 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr.Chris Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief
Investment Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Thank you, Sylvia. Good morning. It's my pleasure to be welcoming you to Pfizer's second quarter
earnings call for the first time as the Head of Investor Relations at Pfizer. I'm joined today by
Dr.`Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and CEO; `Frank D'amelio, Chief Financial Officer And Executive Vice President, Global Supply, our CFO; Michael Dolsten, President of
Worldwide Research and Development, and Medical; `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, Group President, Pfizer
Biopharmaceuticals Group; John Young, our Chief Business Officer; and Doug Lankler, General
Counsel.
We'll begin the call with remarks by Albert followed by a pipeline update from Michael, and Frank
will then give you his thoughts on the numbers and our updated guidance before we open up the
call for Q&A. Finally, Albert will come back for concluding comments. We expect this call to last 90
minutes.
The materials for this call, as well as all the other earnings related materials have been posted to
the investor relations section of pfizer.com. As you can see on Slide 3, we will be making forward-
looking statements during the call regarding amongst other topics, our anticipated futureproduct pipeline and marketed products, which are subject to risks and uncertainties as well as
the use of non-GAAP financial information.
Additional information regarding forward-looking statements and our non-GAAP sentential
measures is available in our earnings release, including under the disclosure notice section and
under risk factors in our SEC Form 10-K and 10-Q. Forward-looking statements on the call speak
only as of the calls original date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the
statements.
With that, I will turn over the call to Dr.Bourla. Albert, please go ahead.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. And I think there was a problem with your line at the last second (Inaudible).
Welcome to your first Pfizer earnings call as our new Chief Investor Relations Officer. Hello,
everyone. I'm proud to say that Pfizer delivered an outstanding second quarter (inaudible) most
notably, we delivered extremely strong financial results even excluding direct line -- even
excluding direct sales and alliance revenue provided by our (inaudible). We generated 10%
operational revenue growth compared to the prior year quarter. And I would note that the year-
ago quarter was also very strong, delivering 6% operational growth for the comparable business.
At the same time, we continue to accelerate the production and delivery of the Pfizer-BioNTech
COVID-19 vaccine. And in collaboration with BioNTech have now recieved more than 1 billion
doses since last December. This is truly remarkable, especially when you consider that prior to
the pandemic, Pfizer produced approximately 200 million doses annually across our entire
vaccines portfolio.
Let me start with commentary on some of our biggest growth drivers in the quarter. The Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine contributed $7.8 billion in global revenues during second quarter and
we continued to sign agreements with governments around the world. Just last week, we
announced that the US government has purchased an additional 200 million doses of the
vaccine, bringing the total number of doses to be supplied to the US government under its
existing supply agreement to 500 million. This is in addition to the 500 million doses that we
agreed to provide to the US government as a non-profit price to be donated to the poorest
countries in the world.
We anticipate that the significant amount of the remaining 2021 vaccine manufacturing capacity
will be delivered to middle and low-income countries where we price in line with income levels or
at a non-profit price. In fact, we are on track to deliver on our commitment to provide this year
more than 1 billion dose, more than 1 billion doses or approximately 40% of our total production
to middle and low-income countries. And another 1 billion in 2022. Vyndaqel and Vyndamax
revenues were up 77% operationally to $501 million globally. Our disease educational efforts in
the US continue to support increases in appropriate diagnosis, while the main driver of growth in
Japan has been the successful establishment of several referral networks in select areas,
resulting in new patient starts. We anticipate this effort will continue to support a strong trajectory
for the franchise.
Eliquis continued its strong performance with revenues up 13% operationally to $1.5 billion. This
was led by growth in the US and emerging markets, driven primarily by strength of the clinical
profile, ease of use for both patients and clinicians, continued increase adoption in non-valvular
atrial fibrillation and overall oral anti-coagulant market share gains.
Prevnar 13 in the US was up 34% overall to $642 million. This growth was due primarily to higherheavily impacted by COVID-19 related mobility restrictions and limitations. Growth in the pediatric
indication was also due to year-over-year government purchasing patterns and was partially
offset by lower year-over-year birth rates. Growth in the adult indication was partially offset by the
continued impact of the lower remaining eligible and vaccinated population.
During the quarter, the US food and drug administration approved Prevnar 20 for adults ages 18
and over for the prevention of both, invasive disease and pneumonia caused by the trending
pneumococcus serotypes in the vaccine. I would note that, a 16-valent vaccine also recently
received FDA approval in adults. However, that approval did not include the pneumonia in the
case. We believe the only way to add that indication to the 15-valent vaccine in the US would be
to conduct a post license for efficacy effectiveness trial, which we believe means that, for the
foreseeable future, Prevnar 20 likely will be the only vaccine with an indication against vaccine
type pneumonia for the 20 serotypes.
For Ibrance, we continue to be pleased by the double-digit growth in international markets and
are encouraged by signs of recovery in several key markets. In the US, Ibrance continues to be
the leading CDK4/6 inhibitor with 83% total patients and 73% of first line metastatic new patient
starts. While total prescription volume was stable in the second quarter, page[ph] demand for
Ibrance was down due to increased enrollment in our patient assistance program, which we
reference last quarter. This resulted in a second quarter revenue decline in the US of 7%,
compared with a year ago quarter.
Inlyta's global revenues were up 29% operationally and $257 million, primarily reflecting increased
adoption in the US and developed Europe of combinations of certain immune checkpoint
inhibitors and Inlyta. Expanding the US was up 14% and $303 million driven by strong demand
across all approved indication. Our global biosimilars revenue grew 88% operationally to $559
million driven by several recent oncology biosimilar advances. As you can see, biosimilars has
become a meaningful part of our business, while delivering lower-cost patient care options that
can help reduce overall health care spending level.
Now, let me serve to brief updates from our JAK inhibitor portfolio. We continue to remain
confident in the importance of JAK inhibitor class for appropriate patients with inflammatory
diseases given the role of JAK pathways in inflammatory processes. In addition, we have taken a
targeted approach to developing selective JAK inhibitors, based upon our extensive knowledge
of JAK biology coupled with our medical chemistry capabilities -- the best targets for a specific
indication. We believe this approach may optimize the benefit risk profile. Of course, patient
safety is of utmost importance and we continue to monitor all compounds in our portfolio to
identify signals both in development, as well as after regulatory approval.
Global sales revenue were down 9% operational in the quarter to $286 million driven primarily by
15% decline in the US, while prescription volume increased 2%. This revenue decline reflects an
unfavorable change in channel mix to work lower price channels and continued investments to
improve formulary positioning and unlock access to additional patients lives. Also, a negative
impact on mutation starts resulting from an ongoing review by the FDA of safety data from the
post-marketing ORAL Surveillance study of Xeljanz in subject with rheumatoid arthritis, over 50
years of age or older and had at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor. International
develop markets achieved 11% operational growth in the same quarter.
The FDA recently notified Pfizer that it would not meet the Prescription Drug User Fee Act
(PDUFA) goal date for the supplemental New Drug Applications (sNDA) for Xeljanz/Xeljanz XR for
the treatment of adults with active ankylosing spondylitis. No revised PDUFA goal date has been
said for this NDA -- supplementary NDAs. The FDA also recently notified Pfizer that it would notmeet the PDUFA goal date for the new drug application for a proceeding for the treatment of
adults and adolescents with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. The FDA cited its ongoing
review of Pfizer's post-marketing safety
study. ORAL Surveillance, evaluating tofacitinib in patients with rheumatoid arthritis as a factor in
the east -- as a factor in the extension. No revised PDUFA goal date has been set by this NDA --
for this NDA.
Now, I want to touch on the Biden Administration's recent executive order on promoting
competition. While I believe there may be better alternatives that some of these policies put
forward in the executive order, we can agree that fostering competition and lowering costs for
patients should be the focus of any regulatory or legislative action. We continue to support more
affordable options for patients like biosimilars, improving the Medicare program to cut out of
pocket costs and also lower cost sharing for seniors and making insurance work by requiring that
patient share in -- savings at the pharmacy counter. We believe this meaningful solutions would
have an immediate impact for patients without sacrificing future universe.
Overall, I believe the second quarter was a clear and powerful demonstration of the capabilities
of the new Pfizer. Looking forward, we intend to build upon this success by continuing to follow
the science, trust in our people and remain focused on delivering breakthroughs for the patients
we serve.
As such, we continue to expect our revenue CAGR of at least 6% on a risk-adjusted basis through
the end of 2025, and double-digit growth in the bottom line. I would note that these projections
do not include any potential impact from our COVID-19 vaccine, the recent or subsequent
business development activities or potential future mRNA programs. We remain very confident in
our ability to achieve these growth rates because of the strength of both our current product
portfolio and our R&D pipelines. At the same time, we will continue to pursue business
development opportunities with a potential to further enhance our long-term growth --.
Just last week, we announced a global collaboration with Arvinas to develop and commercialize
ARV-471 an investigational of oral products, estrogen receptor protein degrader. The estrogen
receptor is a well-known disease driver in most breast cancers, and we are excited to work with
arenas on the first potential product for breast cancer, quits with -- early clinical data has the
potential to become an oval hormonal therapy backbone for HR[ph] positive breast cancer.
Now, I will turn it over to Mike to speak more about our R&D efforts. And then, of course Frank will
provide financial details on the quarter and our outlook for the remainder of 2021. Mikael?
`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Thank you, Albert. I'm delighted to share some highlights from Pfizer's R&D pipeline, which
continues to be one of our great strengths. Today, I will share updates on eight select programs
in which we are pursuing first-in-class breaks through science, and which have estimated
approvals before 2030 and the potential to profound impact on millions of patients. Last week,
we announced a global collaboration with Arvinas to develop and commercialize ARV-471,
potentially the first PROTAC or PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera estrogen receptor protein
degrader. 471 represents breakthrough drug design technology, PROTAC protein degrader
sufficiently eliminate rather than inhibit disease-causing proteins. To our knowledge 471, which
was designed to be an oral high potency estrogen receptor degrader with a favorable safety
profile is the only ER targeting protien degrader in clinical development, and has a distinct
mechanism action from the many surge[ph] in development.In the future novel assets like 471 have the potential to be the new endocrine therapy backbone,
either alone or in combination with CDK inhibitors such as Ibrance, other targeted therapies and
therapies with novel mechanism of action. Early clinical data show 471 has the potential to be an
endocrine therapy of choice accross treatment settings in breast cancer. 471 is being evaluated as
a treatment for metastatic breast cancer in Phase 1 dose escalation study, a Phase 1b combination
study with Ibrance and a Phase 2 mono therapy dose expansion study. Starting in 2022, we
expect to initiate Phase 3 studies across lines of therapy in metastatic breast cancer, including in
combination with Ibrance followed by pivotal studies in the early breast cancer safety.
Let me share some of the preclinical data that has us excited. To short of the list shows 471
demonstrated impressive anti-tumor activity in combination with Ibrance -- in preclinical studies. In
the Phase 1 interim analysis was 21 patients. 471 demonstrated a compelling efficacy signal in
heavily pretreated patients, the majority with prior -- treatment and all with prior CDK4/6
innovation treatment.
The images on the right show one patient on 471 monotherapy who had a confirmed partial
response of the four cycles with 51% reduction in target lesion sites as indicated by the arrows.
Two patients have unconfirmed partial responses, and one patient demonstrated stable disease
with more than 50% target lesion shrinkage. 5 pad tumor biopsies demonstrated ER degradation
up to 90% with an average of 62%.
The next program is ROBO2, details of which we have not shared previously. No disease specific
treatment are currently available for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, or FSGS for short. We
have developed in collaboration with Boston University, and Boston Medical Center, the
potentially novel and first in class, disease-modifying biological therapy comprising a sleep to
Ligand antibody -- that lowers activation of the ROBO2 receptor for treating FSGS, as well as
adjacent renal glomerular --. Preliminary results for an interim analysis of our on going Phase 2a
study in adult patients with steroid resistant FSGS, demonstrated promising data with a
statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction in urine protein to creatinine ratio or
UPCR. We are advancing the program to potentially demonstrate proof-of-concept in '22 and
preparing for pivotal studies. This short chose to change in UPCR a marker of renal function from
baseline in steroid treatment resistant patients in our Phase 2a studies. There was a fable
reduction proteinuria at 30 weeks based on data from approximately half of the first dose cohort
of the study. Please note of the stopping the treatment as per study protocol, the UPCR
deteriorated indicating the need for continuous therapy. Treatment every two weeks was well
tolerated with no significant safety signals to date.
Next, let's turn to our gene therapy programs in Hemophilia A and B and Duchenne Muscular
Dystrophy. Pfizer continues to advance the broadest late-stage gene therapy portfolio or
potentially transformational treatment. We expect Phase 3 interim analysis for all three programs
in '22. In a Phase 1/2 hemophilia A study, we have seen durable expression of factor 8 through 78
weeks with an annual bleed rate in the first 52 weeks of zero. In our Phase 1/2 hemophilia B study,
we have seen sustained expression of factor 9 activity into GL4 of the Phase 1/2 long-term follow-
up study with an annual bleed the rate of less than one. In our Phase 1b duchenne muscular
dystrophy study statistically significant expression of mini dystopian and 3.5 increase in the North
star emulator assessment score have been observed.
Now we'll turn to our Lyme disease vaccine, the only active Lyme vaccine candidate in clinical
development today being co-developed with Valneva the ongoing Phase 2 study, which
completed recruitment of adult and pediatric participants last week we'll evaluate the optimal
vaccination schedule used in Phase 3, we expect potential proof of concept in January 22 and a
Phase 3 study in the first of '22.These chart shows that more than 90% of subjects -- converted to all six serotypes with a three-
dose vaccination schedule at sero 2 and 6 months in the Phase 2b study demonstrating a
favorable immune response.
Our respiratory syncytial virus vaccine is the most advanced bivalent protein-based vaccine with
Phase 2 data published showing high neutralization titers against both RSV A and RSV B subtypes,
which has not been demonstrated in clinical development by a monovalent profusion -- means.
We have been advancing this asset for both adults through direct vaccination and infants with
maternal immunization. Today, I will focus on adults.
In 2020, we initiated a Phase 2a study to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of the
recombinant RSV profusion vaccine in a virus challenge model in healthy adults, 18 to 50 years of
age. I will show you data on the next slide, which we plan to submit for peer-reviewed
publications soon. Result from our Phase 2 duchenne study of 62 subjects -- the vaccine was
100% effective against mild to moderate symptomatic infection and most participant in the study
experience minimal to no side effects. Assets performance benchmark, the Ad26.RSVpreF
vaccine showed 52% observed efficacy in the same human challenge model.
In this Slide, we show very stable protective changes of the vaccine on viral load left side and in
reducing drastically or is the disease severity right side. Based on these overwhelmingly positive
data, we will accelerate the development of our RSV vaccine in adults, we plan to initiate a global
Phase 3 trial in the third quarter and hope to conclude this study swiftly in part due to the recent
spike in RSV infection reported by CDC. The swift delivery of the world-- mRNA based vaccines
made a scientific opportunity of mRNA technology clearer. Our strategy to advance and unlock
the full potential of mRNA is focused in three core areas. We're strengthening the core COVID-19
vaccine franchise, drawing an infectious disease vaccine pipeline, and exploring therapeutic
areas, like rare disease and oncology with a strongest potential.
Let's start with the mRNA flu vaccine, which we began working on with BioNTech in 2018. Having a
flu vaccine with much better efficacy, better T-cell and innate immune responses and more timely
manufacture soon of the strains are known could dramatically change trajectory of disease. We
are projected to start first in human trials for a modified RNA or modRNA a flu vaccine in the third
course is subject to regulatory approval. Pre-clinical studies were performed with a first-
generation modified mRNA tetravalent flu vaccine and the days that were compared to data from
a marketed flu -- vaccine. Immunity in mice for a first generation modRNA flu candidates across
the 2018-19 Northern hemisphere Australian were higher or as high as the trivalent adjuvanted
sub-unit vaccine. We are encouraged by these data and look forward to progressing is program.
We now turn to our COVID-19 vaccine program in collaboration with BioNTech. The delta variant,
which is the most transmissible we have yet seen is expanding rapidly worldwide and now
represent approximately 83% of sequence cases in the US. We continue to believe it is likely that
the third dues booster may be needed within 6 to 12 months of the full vaccination to maintain
the highest level of protection and studies are underway to evaluate the safety immune -- of our
third dose. We are in ongoing discussion with regulatory agencies, regarding a potential third
dose booster current vaccine and assume positive results, anticipate an emergency use
authorization submission, as well as orders.
Pending regulatory approval were also plans to start plan to start an immunization safety study in
August to evaluate an updated version of our vaccine, specifically designed to target the delta
variant. Here we show initial data from a small number of patients receiving a third dose of the
existing vaccines. We observed a significant boost in neutralizing antibodies following a third dose
of the current vaccine for both wild type and the beta variant at 8 months post those to antibodylevels start to decline from earlier fleets. In our initial analysis, a third dose given more than six
months after the second dose elicited neutralizing antibodies which are more than 5x higher than
the wild-type and more than 10x higher against the beta variant, then of the two primary doses.
The third dose elevates the neutralizing antibodies in our laboratory studies upto 100x higher
levels post to three compared to pre-dose. Just as we saw in the analysis of neutralizing
antibodies from those in the original Phase 3 trials, the levels in the older population were
comparable to the younger population.
Here we show new breaking data from a small number of participants that the third dose boost
with the current vaccine elicited neutralizing titers that when tested against the delta variant were
more than five fold post dose to in younger people and more than 11 fold post dose to in older
people. Receiving a third dose, more than six months after vaccination, when protection may be
beginning to wane was estimated to potentially boost the neutralizing antibody titers in
participant in the study to up to 100x higher post dose -- compared to pre dose --. These
preliminary data are very encouraging as delta continues to spread.
Finally, let's turn to our potentially first-in-class COVID-19 anti viral protease inhibitors. If
successful, our protease inhibitor, has the potential to provide patients affected with COVID-19
with a new oral therapy that could be prescribed for a five-day treatment course at the first sign
of infection, before patients are hospitalized or in critical care. To patients, who are in close
contact with someone who contains COVID-19, we will study both 5 and 10 day, post-exposure
prophylaxis courses. The goal is to reduce source code to viral load thereby hopefully decreasing
or preventing symptoms of COVID-19 and minimizing the risk of hospitalization.
In July, we initiated a Phase 2/3 () to evaluate efficacy safety and tolerability of the orally
administrated Protease Inhibitors in participant with COVID-19. If successful, we project a potential
US emergency use authorization submission in the fourth quarter. Our protease inhibitor exhibit
potent selective in vitro antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 and other coronaviruses and
potentially all currently known COVID-19 variants. It also has demonstrated a robust preclinical
antiviral effects on cells and in SARS-CoV-2 infected animals enabled by selectivity that is more
than 100x higher for coronavirus real proteases than human proteases. The chart on the left
shows robust dose-dependent reductions in disease, microscopical scores in mice.
In Phase 1, human study to date, we have seen desirable drug exposure, Good tolerability and no
safety findings up to a dose of 500 mg twice a day over 10 days in healthy volunteers.
To shorten the right of the Phase 1 pharmacokinetic studies shows high drug exposure over the
entire treatment period, exceeding greater than 5x the exposure predicted to inhibit source
code to viral replication. This concludes our review of eight selected breakthrough program
among many-many more to come this decade.
Now, let me turn it over to Frank.
`Frank D'amelio, Chief Financial Officer And Executive Vice President, Global Supply
Thanks, Michael. I know you've seen our release. So let me provide a few highlights regarding the
financials. The COVID-19 vaccine again had a dramatic positive impact on our quarterly results.
And Albert has already addressed the key points on the COVID-19 landscape. Looking at the
income statement, revenue and adjusted cost of sales was significantly impacted by COVID-19
vaccine sales and the associated 50% gross profit split with BioNTech which we recognize on the
cost of sales line. Revenue increased 86% operational in the second quarter of 2021 driven by
COVID-19 vaccine sales and solid performance from a number of our other key growth drivers.and alliance revenues, I want to reiterate what Albert said in that we saw a continuation of solid
performance from the business again this quarter delivering 10% operational growth despite a
negative 4% impact from price. This nicely supports our projected revenue CAGR of at least 6%
through the end of 2025. Of course, there will be some variability in quarterly growth rates due to
a variety of factors but we continue to expect at least 6% through 2025.
There was no impact from the number of selling days in the quarters as compared to the year
ago period, likely we saw in our first quarter where we had more selling days compared to the
year ago period. I'd remind you that the offset to this imbalance will be seen in the fourth quarter
results when we have fewer selling days as compared to the year-ago quarter. For the full year,
this results in essentially the same number of selling days in 2021 as 2020.
The adjusted cost of sales increase shown here reduced this quarter's gross margin by 19
percentage points compared to the second quarter of 2020, which primarily reflects the impact
of the COVID-19 vaccine, gross profit split an applicable royalty expenses in addition to much
smaller impacts from foreign exchange product mix. Adjusted SI&A expenses increased owing to
a more normalized level of promotional and salesforce activity along with some impact from
foreign exchange.
The increase in adjusted R&D expense this quarter was driven by increased investments in the
COVID-19 vaccine and antiviral programs as well as other programs within our pipeline. Given the
tax effect of increased COVID-19 vaccine revenue, our tax rate (Inaudible) which will impact our
guidance, which will I speak to -- which I will speak to in a minute.
Reported diluted EPS for the quarter was up 58% compared to the year ago quarter while
adjusted diluted EPS grew 73% for the quarter. Foreign exchange movements resulted in a 6%
benefit to revenue as well as a 6% benefit or $0.03 to adjusted diluted EPS.
Now let's move to our revised 2021 guidance. We've again provided total company guidance
which includes the business with the COVID-19 vaccine and then we'd provided some additional
sub-ledger detail on our assumptions regarding the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution. So
you can also see our projection for the business without the COVID-19 vaccine.
Our revenue projection has increased and we now expect it to be in a range of $78 billion to $80
billion with the COVID-19 vaccine revenue for the year being projected to be approximately $33.5
billion based on contract signed through Mid-July. I note that this projection does not include the
doses what our contract with the US government announced last week. For adjusted cost of
sales, the range has increased to between 39% to 40%, which incorporates the incremental
anticipated COVID-19 vaccine revenue, which has a significantly higher cost of sales due to the
gross profit split with BioNTech as compared to the rest of the business. The projected COVID-19
vaccine revenue as a percentage of total company revenue at the midpoints has increased to
42% as compared to 36% in our previous 2021 guidance.
On adjusted SI&A, we have made a small increase to the projection, now expect $11.5 billion to
$12.5 billion. In addition, we increased our adjusted R&D guidance range to $10 billion to $10.5
billion to incorporate anticipated spending on incremental COVID-19 related programs and other
mRNA based projects that are not part of the BioNTech collaboration. Given the tax effect of
increased COVID-19 vaccine revenues, we are increasing our are projected tax rate for the full
year to approximately 16%. This yields an increased adjusted diluted EPS range of $3.95 to $4.05
or 77% growth the midpoint compared to 2020 including an expected 4% benefit from foreign
exchange.Let me quickly remind you of some assumptions in context on to projected COVID-19 vaccine
contribution and our collaboration agreement. As discussed earlier, the Pfizer biotic COVID-19
vaccine collaboration construct is a 50-50 gross profit split. Pfizer books the vast majority of the
global collaboration revenue except for Germany and Turkey, where we received a profit share
from BioNTech and we do not participate in the China region. We now expect that we can
manufacture upto 3 billion doses in 2021, subject to continuous process improvements,
expansion and current facilities and adding new suppliers new suppliers and contract
manufacturers. As of Mid-July, we have contracted for approximately 2.1 billion vaccine doses for
delivery in 2021 which drove our projection of approximately $33.5 billion in revenue for the year.
Our cost of sales for the COVID-19 vaccine revenue continues to include manufacturing and
distribution costs, applicable royalty expense as well as our payment with BioNTech representing
the 50% gross profit split.
We continue to expect that the adjusted income before tax margin for the COVID-19 vaccine
contribution to be in the high 20s as a percentage of revenue. This margin level also includes the
anticipated spending on additional mRNA programs. Let me add, that if we contract for delivery
of additional doses during the year, we will provide a guidance update in our subsequent earning
releases.
If we remove the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution from both periods, you will see that
we slightly increased the 2021 revenue range to $45 billion to $47 billion, representing
approximately 7% operational revenue growth at the midpoint. In terms of adjusted diluted EPS,
without the contribution from the COVID-19 vaccine, we have increased the range to be between
255 and 265 for the year, which represents approximately 11% operational growth at the
midpoint. These growth rates are all consistent with how we've been publicly positioning the
business post the Upjohn separation. And going forward, we will continue to maintain a prudent
stance toward our capital allocation activities with the opportunities for deployment shown here
on this slide.
In summary, a strong quarter and first half of the year and we have increased our revenue and
EPS guidance for the remainder of the year. In addition, we've had pipeline advances and just
completed a very promising business development agreement with Arvinas.
I'll now turn it over to Chris to start the Q&A session.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Thank you, Frank. Operator, if we could have the first question please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Berenberg from Berenberg.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you. A few questions on the COVID-19 vaccine, please. So, essentially point of clarification,
can I just check the upgraded 2021 sales guidance for the vaccine, (inaudible) how many doses
you expect to deliver this year and not for those contracted to delivery in 2022? As it standsdown today, can you talk directionally about how you see 2022 COVID vaccine relative to this new
(inaudible) figure for 2021?
Do the (inaudible) those orders you've secured require delivery over the new updated version
vaccine you referenced that covers the Delta variant? And then finally, can we assume the price
per dose in the most recent order from the U.S. Government is equivalent to prior U.S. orders?
And how does that pricing compare in the ex U.S. contracts that you've more recently signed?
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Kerry. Maybe I can give you an answer to that. As Frank said in his remarks
in 2021, we provided guidance for approximately 2.1 billion doses. These are confirmed orders,
contracts signed. We have said repeatedly that we expect to have 3 billion doses manufacturing
this year, and we are of course discussing about those doses, and most of them are in very
advanced discussions. So, I believe that we will eventually allocate those doses.
Now, keep in mind that in the second half, as we said, the very big number of doses will go to
middle-income countries where the price is very, very different, almost half, to low-income
countries. And lower and low mid -- and low-middle level countries where we provide the doses
on a not-for-profit basis. So, you need to take that into consideration.
The second thing that you need to take into consideration, it is that how our financial calendar is
not the exact like the political calendar, which means that December sales will not be going to
2021, if it is international, is going to go to 2022. This is how our financial calendar works. Only the
U.S. sales of December will be accounted in this year, and would be a significant number of doses
that will be allocated in December as part of the $3 billion.
How the 2022 looks like? It's very early to speak. We have multiple countries that they have
already accomplished agreements for 2022 and '23, like Europe for example, Israel, Canada;
Canada actually they have also -- they go all the way to 2024. U.S. just got an additional 200
million doses. And almost every country in the world right now is discussing with us for additional
doses. Our total expected capacity for 2022, it is 4 billion doses. And I've giving the mix, that
likely would be allocated to the entire world. Then you asked a question about the Delta variant
and maybe I will ask Mikael to provide a view on that.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Thank you, Albert. As we noted in the presentation, all data right now point to that the current
vaccine is highly effective against Delta variant. There may be waning over time as often is seen
with the vaccine, and that's why we shared today that if you do give a third dose boost of the
current vaccine, you seem to regain very high utilizing antibody against Delta. We are also
producing a Delta variant-specific vaccine, mainly to make sure we've covered all options of the
future. But we remain highly confident in that that the current vaccine when used appropriately will
be effective against Delta. And we are in dialogues with regulatory agencies about the potential
of a third dose of the vaccine, pending epidemiology of the vaccinated over time. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Mikael. And Kerry, also on the price per dose, we do not discuss our prices
with the individual countries. But we have given our overall policy which says that high-income
countries they have comparable prices, but they vary only based on we give discounts to this
prices based on the volumes that were committed. Middle-income countries, they haveapproximately half over price for the lower middle and low income countries, we are providing
our vaccines at a not-for-profit basis. Thank you.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you, Albert.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Next question please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Matthew Harrison, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Matthew Harrison, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. A few if I may. First on the regulatory
outlook for the JAK. Do you have any idea on how long the FDA may continue to review the file
or when we might expect to see some response on next steps there? And then second on the
mRNA flu vaccine, can you comment on the potential regulatory picture there? Do you think you
may be able to get that approved just based on Based on titers or do you think you'll have to
actually run a head-to-head study versus the existing flu vaccines? Thanks very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael, I think you could to take those two questions, and then if Angela wants to add something
on the last.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Yeah, thank you. Well, as you know, FDA and other agencies are reviewing both existing and new
JAKs. In FDA, we're all waiting for them to conclude final assessment of the Stallion study. And
during that period, they have passed PDUFA timeline for both us and other developed new JAK.
We certainly hope, as the workload from COVID may attenuate, that the agency will have soon
been able to review all available data as we do consider that JAKs have a really meaningful and
important role in management of RA, properly used in the right patients. And also new indications
were there are fewer alternatives, such as atopic dermatitis, alopecia, (inaudible) and so on. So,
we cannot give any firm timelines, but we certainly hope it will be relatively soon.
For the mRNA flu vaccine, we plan to start our first in-human studies shortly based on some of the
encouraging data we showed from pre-clinical studies. We will both run immunogenicity study as
well as head-to-head study. Given their high potency of the mRNA, we are optimistic and we
believe there is a good opportunity that one can create a premier vaccine with superior efficacy
versus existing flu vaccine. That's why we think not only to demonstrate high titers, but also
demonstrate superior efficacy would be very valuable, and we are gearing up using all our
experience to run trials fast, to look at the time schedule for both immunogenicity and head-to-
head event trial.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Angela, do you have anything to add?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `I think Mikael covered all the key points. Just to reassure everyone that we are in constant
communication with the FDA, and they're just doing their risk benefit analysis like as they would
with any and all molecules. And so, we're very confident that there is a role that our JAKs do play
and we just -- we're awaiting eagerly for the response from the FDA. So, thank you.
Q - `Matthew Harrison, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Operator, go ahead with the next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Daniel Busby, RBC Capital from RBC Capital.
Q - `Daniel Busby, RBC Capital `
Hi. Thanks for the questions. I've got two. First on the COVID-19 vaccine. I think it's fair to say that
Pfizer has been a bit more outspoken about the likely need for recurring booster doses than
CDC and FDA, at least at this point in time. Can you provide any additional color about why that's
the case? It was simply a matter of letting the data to catch up to what you view as a likely
eventuality or is it a function of Pfizer and regulatory agencies interpreting the data that we have
today perhaps differently? And second, with respect to Prevnar 20, can you talk a little bit about
your expectations for October's ACIP meeting and what you would characterize as a good
outcome for the adult use vote?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe I can give you the answer to the COVID, and then Angela can take the Prevnar 20. I don't
think that there is different interpretation of data between us and regulatory authorities around
the world. Actually, there is extremely good collaboration and same interpretation. I think what we
have said is not new, i.e., for months I'm saying that we believe based on the data that we have
received holistically, that we will need a booster 8 to 12 months from the second dose. And we
have seen that with the Delta, that might be needed bit earlier, particularly for some parts of the
population. But we haven't submitted the data yet, so I don't think that the FDA or CDC can
speak because they have very different authority when they speak, it's extremely -- they have
very different consideration.
So, we would submit those data by August 16. They are aware of them and the FDA needs to
review them and then provide or not, their approval. And then once it is approved, the third dose
booster, then CDC needs to understand the situation in the country at that particular period of
time, and they will have to make a recommendation about the boost. So the same happens in
different countries and depends of what percentage of the population have been vaccinated
earlier in the year or later in the year, they may have very different sense of urgency. Clearly,
counties that did big percentage of the population in the January, February time frame, they have
very different adjusting, because the time is -- the clock is ticking. And with that, I will go to Angela
about the Prevnar 20 and ACIP.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Yeah. Thanks, Albert. Well, you heard Albert talk about the very differentiated label that we do
have with Prevnar 20 in his opening comments. And I just to reinforce that the 20 serotypes andthe coverage that -- the broad coverage that provides. But also the fact that our label contains
indication for both IPD as well as pneumonia is really unique. And I think that this pneumonia
indication is a true strength of the Prevnar family, being that we're the only company that have the
80,000 capital trial where this pneumonia indication was based. And so with this, what we
anticipate coming up in October our policy questions that will be addressed for both PCV20 as
well as Merck 15.
And we have an early read into this already because at the last ACIP meeting, different policy
questions were posed for both products. For Prevnar 20, there's a question around vaccinations
of 65-plus as well as 50-plus. In addition to the 18 to 49 or 18 to 59 immuno compromised. From
15, the age range and the policy question posed there was 65 plus. When you look at what's
different, the only Prenar 20 was being looked at for the 50 plus. So, we'll have to see how all this
ends up and we're looking forward to having a robust discussion at the October ACIP. But I think
that the setup of the policy questions give us a good view into what the discussions will look like
and what the outcomes might be. So, thanks for the question.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Thank you, Angela. Next question please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Chris Shot, JP Morgan from JP Morgan.
Q - `Chris Shot, JP Morgan
Great. Thanks so much for the questions. Just coming back to the COVID-19 booster, would you
envision this as an annual booster? Or with these levels of antibody titers would you envision that
third dose could give more sustained protection against COVID, speaking about just kind of how
the market evolves over time?
And then my second question was just coming back to the JAK and just two more detailed
questions there. First, any change in thinking, as we think about abrocitinib, the 100 milligram
versus the 100 and 200 milligram approvals, anything you've learned with regulatory interactions
etc, has changed your view there? And then maybe second question on the JAK is, just with
Xeljanz what would EMEA like label revision mean for Xeljanz as we think about the U.S.
commercial opportunity? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Mikael, I think you can take the booster in terms of, is it the third dose done you think, or is it
going to be an annual revaccination. And then Angela, we move to you for Xeljanz.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Thank you. Well, Albert spoke earlier to the importance of both following vaccine efficacy in
different regions of the world and enter new strains. Right now, we have a surge in the Delta
strain, it's the most infectious strain ever seen, and it puts pressure on vaccinated individuals. The
data that we showed today indicate at six to eight months, we can boost up to 100 fold the
antibody titer of the dose compared to pre-dose. At the same time, we hear reports from
various parts of the world, real world evidence that they do see some breakthrough cases of the
Delta variant in vaccinated. So, these type of data is a typical package we will put together in this
case for August submission, as Albert alluded to, for a third dose. We will continue to Monitor andgenerate data on the impact of a third dose, which we do have ongoing in our Phase 3 and
possibly soon with real-world evidence.
We expect the third dose to be potent and somewhat maybe more long-lasting than the second.
But we also recognize that the virus constantly evolves, and you all start to notice about Delta
Plus variant. Hence, while I cannot predict with certainty the future, I would not be surprised, if
similar to flu that we would need with interval to boost our vaccine against COVID, where the disc
will be on an annual or based on simple diagnostic that allows you to boost at the right time,
before you risk for infection is high, we need to monitor. But all-in-all, we believe that similar to a
flu business, it may be lightly for the COVID business. But we are gathering data to validate and
we'll constantly work with key opinion leaders and regulators in interpreting the data.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Great. I'll start with abro. The conversations and the discussions that we're having with the FDA as
it pertains to abro have been consistent. And at this point, as we've discussed earlier, we're just
waiting and waiting to hear from them as to their sort of their points of view. But both doses are
still in discussion. And I think ultimately where you might be going, your question is sort of what
happens if we only get one or the other, and I just want to reinforce that we are very confident in
the potential of abro whether it's for both doses or for one.
And the reason is that we come back to just the size of the market. We've discussed this before,
but there is a very, very large market with huge unmet need, there's 60 patients, 12 and up with
atopic dermatitis, only 4 million of those are being treated today with any systemic therapy. And
because this is such a heterogeneous disease, patients really need different options. And so,
we're really looking forward to hearing back from the FDA, but we believe that the risk benefit
profile of abrocitinib is going to have a role in the treatment of atopic dermatitis patience. And it
will be a welcom addition and an additional option that patients really need.
And then coming back to Xeljanz, you had a question around our EU label. So actually the
changes to the EU label were posted in June, although we're still waiting for the final SPFC --
SMPC, excuse me. And there, the label is really looking at a cautionary note for those who are 65
plus, who are smokers or have malignancy risk. And the portion there is for physicians to consider
alternative therapies prior to using Xeljanz. And so, I think this is pretty consistent with how
Xeljanz is being used today. If you look at where the utilization is, more than half of our business is
in third line treatment, which is after the utilization of other treatments like biologics. So again, I
think we'll wait to see how this plays out, but the fact that it is being recommended for third line is
very consistent with how it's being used today.
Q - `Chris Shot, JP Morgan
Thanks, Angel.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Ronny Gal, Bernstein from Bernstein.Q - `Ronny Gal, Bernstein `
Good morning, and thanking -- thank you for taking my questions. The first one will also be in the
boosters. I fully understand this point around the third dose increasing antibody titer significantly.
The counter point that has been raised is that the third dose is not needed because while
antibodies wane, immunity against severe disease is not or case have not so far waned overtime.
Can you discuss a little bit how you see the waning of immunity in the large public and the elderly
as you're saying it for your vaccine, even if antibody does comes down?
The second question is around by a similar business, this is something you highlighted. We're not
really seeing a lot in the pipeline, the clinically available pipeline for you by similar business
beyond the humano biosimilars. Can you discuss your plans for that business? Is it still the
emphasis for Pfizer or are you the deemphasizing that?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ronny. Mikael, again, I think I will ask you to make comments if we see waning of
immunity also in severe disease or in hospitalizations, and we have seen data about that. Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Yeah, thank you, Albert. It's a very good question. So first, we do see a more -- after 6 to 8
months more rapid waning concerning infections and mild-to-moderate symptoms. Those are
likely entirely or to a large degree dependent on antibodies. And the drop in titer that we alluded
to, if you race it, it may have a good probability to reverse that waning.
Fortunately, the protection against severe disease hospitalization and people outcomes remains
pretty high. But we do see some lowering, particular in real-world evidence studies from Israel,
we see some lowering in that protection in risk groups, such as older adults
immunocompromised. That's likely because in addition to antibodies, T-cells help out in keeping
up strong defense against severe disease, which is later in the infection process, and particularly
when antibodies have waned. But slow but still noticeable, gradual decline in protection also
against severe disease is something that's on our eyes. And certainly, we believe that by
boosting, you may strengthen antibodies and T-cells and you have an early warning signals
whether to do that with some modest waning in hospitalization, given its risk of severe outcome
or wait in your interpretation of that.
All in all, I think a third dose would strongly improve protection against infection, mild-to-
moderate disease and reduce the spread of the virus, but also give you some extra muscle and
reverse the slower decline against severe disease. So, this is how we're looking at it from
multiple angles in order to describe the full opportunity with boost
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael, Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Thanks for the question on the biosims. And certainly, we've been so pleased with the
tremendous growth that we've seen in this area and the deep utilization of our biosimilars. I will
say that for our biosimilar portfolio and where we see it today, since we've made this pivot to a
pure play sort of innovation focused in our pipeline, we are really now looking at that biosimilar
portfolio vis-a-vis other investments in breakthrough therapies that we have to make. So ofcourse, we will continue to look for opportunities. But I would say, at this point, it's going to be
more opportunistic and that we're really looking at our investments in our development program
to be competitive and to make sure that we have the ability to focus on breakthrough therapies.
So, I'd say that going forward we'll be more opportunistic because we're just weighing and
trading off so many incredible programs on the innovative side that we could also be doing.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. And also you need to take into consideration that we have right now so much
substrate in R&D pipeline and so much opportunity to invest. But right now, we are clearly
focusing on first-in-class and particularly best-in-class first-in-class. And there are so many, right,
so that's why R&D budget is increasing. So, thank you very much. Back to you, Chris.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Thank you, Albert. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for the question. Just had two. For Mikael on COVID boosters, when
you look at the new cases of the Delta variant, the protection varies quite a bit in vaccinated
individuals really depending on geographies around the world. So, are there common themes
that you've identified that could explain this, and what can you say about the T-cell dynamics from
the vaccine over time?
And then second question for Albert or for Frank. You've just given the guidance hike from the
COVID vaccine, does this change Pfizer's urgency or size of your capital allocation decisions? I
would think that this would give you maybe more deal capacity to get over the LOE period at the
end of the decade? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Let me start with the urgency, and Frank will take the same -- the second
one. We always have this urgency. And this extra cash inflows do not (inaudible) our strategic
Direction, not materially our ability to perform. Still, this gives us better flexibility. And we plan to
allocate capital to develop the business with very big sense of urgency. Now on the COVID
boosters and your question about why we see differences around geographies, in fact, actually
as Mikael will explain in a moment, the date of the whole geographers are consistent if you put
take into consideration the time element. But Mikael, please take it?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Yeah. You said it very well, Albert. We first get the glimpse from real-world evidence in Israel,
giving their very rapid massive vaccination they did over basically January to March. And January
started with older adults, and those are now vulnerable, they are now six to eight months and
have a large number of them. So that's why they see their vaccine waning and that's why they
also communicated about their consideration for a third dose.
Other countries that started later and amping up the rollout slower will and are starting to see
similar trends representing what Israel saw in June. And we are getting those reports which tellsus, we are increasingly certain that what we have learned from Israel is likely to be a similar
direction in many other places. Of course, we need to get all of that data in order to be fully clear
about this, but the trend looks similar. Finally, there is also an element that some countries,
particularly U.K., extended the interval between dose 1 and 2 to a longer interval. Likely, they will
get a bit more long-lasting protection and their data may come a few months later.
The disadvantage of extending the range between dose 1 and 2 is that you expose of the dose 1
many individuals to a high risk of reinfection, but you do gain likely somewhat extended
protection. So, these are two examples. When you started to vaccinate, the time difference
between dose 1 and 2. And finally, there may be of course some difference in care of these type
of diseases in different countries. But all in all, we expect it to look somewhat similar in its
direction.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
And just to clarify, when Mikael says extended, because of the spread in the first between
second, it's not that they would get more after the second, it is that the real protection starts
later, I mean, from the second dose. And then this is the case that most of the data in the U.K. for
example are one to three months. And most of the data in Israel when we see it is in with the
three to six months, and most of the case are happening there. And we have also visibility to
other data, including some data that are forming here in the U.S.
But the trend is the same, spawned into the same direction. That you'll have very good
protection in the beginning, then there's a waning, when you come closer to the six months,
which is even more profound with Delta. And waning it is mainly for -- it's more profound for mild
cases, but there is a clear waning also or hospitalizations and severe disease. What used to be
100% in the first month, now it's coming to the low 90s, and in cases to the 80s. So, that's the
difference between the different geographies. The time element, you will see very actually
impressive consistency. Okay, Chris back to you.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Thank you, Albert. Sylvia, next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Andrew Baum, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Many thanks. Firstly, in relation to Prevnar 20, could you talk to how you expect ACIP to address
the current recommendations for Pneumovax, has that dropped given the serotypes which you
are now addressing with a Prevnar 20?
Second, you commented on a number of your other vaccines, you didn't comment on your seed
official candidate where the primary endpoint is rapidly approaching. Could you just comment on
your relatively degree of optimism or not for that vaccine?
And then finally, in relation to the patient assistance program for Ibrance, just looking at the script
trends for the Pivotal versus Ibrance, there's clearly a disconnect there. It could be due to the
patient assistance programs, but it would be helpful to know the magnitude of which the PAP
contributes and how that has changed over the last six months or so? Many thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `Thank you. Mikael, do you want to take first this question, you didn't speak about. I think it was
ACIP that you referred to?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Yeah. Yes.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Are you confident why you did that?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Well, we had such a rich pipeline. And we thought that we wanted to allow you to have question
and not speak too much ourselves. We selected eight assets where we thought you -- we
wanted you to hear some update. PDF [ph], we continue with the trial. We passed one review
that had 30 cases and we're coming now to case numbers that are more possible that you would
expect to be able to relatively soon have an opportunity to determine if vaccine efficacy is robust,
and you will be able to have a readout.
We are expecting this fall to have another readout in that trial, pending events. But certainly, I
continue to believe it's a very well designed vaccine. There is precedent with antibodies if you
neutralize those toxins. So, I continue to say, be patient. We continue to mature the study and I do
hope it will have an encouraging readout. But like in any clinical study, you can never be fully
certain about the outcome but I remain very encouraged and optimistic myself.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
So, thank you, Mikael and Andrew. Just to clarify, no, it's not that there was something behind it, it
is that we had to select few assets that we could present new data. Angela, please take the
question about Pneumovax if what you think ACIP will do, and the program of Ibrance and Pivotal.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure. Well, the question of Pneumovax is something that we can refer to in the ACIP discussion
that was held recently. Again, comes back to the policy questions that were posed, and clearly
there, just to reinforce what I said earlier, which was that there were different policy questions
posed for both PCV20, as well as Merck 15. The question of whether 50 plus would be
vaccinated with pose only for PCV20. And specifically your question about Pneumovax that is
being evaluated only with Merck 15, not with PCV20 or with any PCV. So again, different policy
questions and very specific to each pneumococcal vaccine.
And then going to your question about the PAP usage. We are seeing this clearly as a trend that is
very much aligned with the economic hardships that we're seeing as a result of COVID and the
pandemic, the Ibrance patient is a younger population and so because they're on commercial
insurance, their economic status is very much then aligned to employment. And what we've
seeing throughout the pandemic are two things. One is the slowdown in new patients start, which
actually is one of the reasons for the negative growth that you saw in the Ibrance in the U.S. And
the second and more prominent one this quarter is the PAP.
So I think what you're seeing is very consistent with what we're seeing on the -- in the
environment generally, as it pertains to economic hardship. And so that is definitely one
explanation. And then the other explanation would be a slowdown in the new patient starts that
we've been seeing as well.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Sylvia, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Carter Gould, Barclays, from Barclays.
Q - `Carter Gould, Barclays `
Good morning. Thanks for taking all the questions, and I appreciate all the color in the pipeline
from Mikael. A couple from us. First, you gave us a pretty comprehensive set of updates, but in
terms of expectations on timing from the pediatric study, I don't believe I saw that reference, and
just wanted to confirm that the recent tasks from FDA having pushed timelines back there. And
then, as we think about the oral proteasome inhibitor, clearly you've moved very fast there.
Can you comment just around your ability to supply the market in bulk sort of out the gate,
assuming the timelines are tracking kind of how you're messaging? And then apologies if you
guys addressed this already, but it seems like one of the things you guys do control is -- on the
JAK side is the potential presentation of the JAK oral surveillance data. Any color on when we
might see that presented at a medical meeting? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Let me take quickly the first two, and then for JAK, Mikael maybe you can assist. The
pediatric study, we are -- as you said -- as we have said, we are projecting in the September
timeframe, immediately after (inaudible). But FDA has asked some requirements and we are
looking at them. But our intention is to try to, even with these requirements, to try to come in the
same time frame. So, we are not changing right now our expectations as to when the study can
recruit, it's just if we need to do more in less time, we will try to accommodate that. So that's the
first one.
On the oral supply -- on the oral and the supply, as you know this is not compound that we have
seen clinical efficacy data yet, so the risk is clearly higher than anything else. But of course, the
disease is moving. So, I have authorized our team to invest and manufacturing at risk significant
quantities of the oral. So, if we are successful, we will have quantities for the world as much as
possible. That's a significant investment that we are doing at risk, it could go all the way to $2
billion, including some of the research work that is happening. So, but I think it is the right thing to
do and I gave them the green light. They should not be thinking about cost right now, they should
be thinking about success of the oral program.
And then for the JAK, Mikael, any -- do you when the study would be published or the results?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
We are focused to share all the data of the study obtain this for with regulators. And as you know,
conclusions have already been posted about the data from both European, like the PRAC [ph]
Community and U.S. So while recent date yet when the study will be published, regulators have
had access to it and have made updates. So, I think the most critical element is for the U.S.,
European regulators to finalize things. And like Angela spoke to, that will give clarity to the classof JAK and to salience, and which patients the treatment lines that benefits most. And as you
know, in addition to the study, we have years, 10 years of surveillance, and we continue to share
all of that data, as to study was mainly in a subset of patients, with increased age and
cardiovascular risk. While of course our surveillance carries all salience patients, and we have
continued to share those robust data.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Thank you, Albert. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Geoffrey Porges, SVB Leerink from SVB Leerink.
Q - `Geoffrey Porges, SVB Leerink `
Thank you very much for taking the question. Mikael, one for you. You mentioned the Delta Plus
varient which of course has picked up the K417n mutation, how concerned are you about Delta
Plus? And then is there the possibility that, of course, it'll pick up E484n and then be even more
resistant to vaccine induced immunity? And relative to that, do you have a view yet as to whether
the best booster strategy is original Wuhan strain, the Beta strand, the Delta strain, Delta Plus
strain? And then lastly, have you contemplated heterologous boosting with your vaccine after, for
example, the wild-type vaccine or vice-versa, is that's something you're studying?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Yeah, starting with Delta Plus. So right now, Delta is a very fit virus and continues to infect and
dominate. It's too early to know whether n of the current Delta Plus will have transmission
sufficiently to out-compete Delta. So when we say Plus, it means you just continue to monitor into
the future at some time point, whether 6 to 12 months. There are likely going to going to be
strange that pick up additional mutations but stay also fit.
Meanwhile, what we have seen with a wild-type vaccine, is that we see for each dose not just a
higher magnitude of antibody but breath, a repertoire of different cells producing antibodies
grows and grows. So you seem to cover with increasing dose more variant. If you go back and
look at the slides, we use the beta variant as an example, there was somewhat of a difference of
the dose 2 party to utilize the data variant of the dose 2, 3, easier to neutralize the Beta variant.
So, that's why we do this for find a wild type who is very useful for existing and new variants.
Now, as Albert has said before, we always want to be prepared for the unexpected, and we
continue to prepare Delta and Delta Plus strains. But right now we do think that wild-type vaccine
is going to be very efficient, but we always want to be ahead of the curve. I think the way to win
this game is to keep up high immunity, reduce the amount of virus and that's why we do both. We
will study boost with existing and are prepared, if ever needed, to have an updated if the virus
can be fit and breaks through immunity.Finally on the heterologous boost, there are trials coming out perform, for example, in U.K. that
showed favorable outcome for those that vaccinated with AstraZeneca on getting an mRNA
boost such as with Biontech which they use. Those are data that you should review and I'm sure
patients and physicians will involve their our own conclusions. I know, there is in U.S. similar studies
to benefit from that mRNA vaccines can be given repeatedly, while adenovirus delivered vaccine
has limitations for repeats use.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. And again, I want to make -- to emphasize that our strategy when it comes is
that we take no chances here. This is too serious, too risky. So when we have a variant that it is of
concern, always we make immediately at risk vaccine to try. First time who said that with better,
that was seem very aggressive. So we start doing vaccinate, and we have a vaccine right now,
we're going to submit it to the FDA, eventually don't need it. It was very clear because after we
did that, we got data for immunogenicity, but also we got the South African study with the 100%
efficacy in the data of a smaller number, but 100% efficacy.
So, we know we don't need it, but we tried. The same we do now with Delta. It looks like we do
not need it, everything that we see so far. But we are developing one in the backstage. So, in
case something goes wrong, because biology is sometimes unpredictable, we will not have to
wait three months, because this is our time right now. From the day we assign a variant as a very
real concern in our own interpretations, we take 95 days to be able to have a vaccine. So, that's
why we always try to be ahead of the curve. But too serious of an issue to take risks. Back to you
Chris.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer `
Thank you, Albert. Sylvia, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from Louise Chen from Cantor.
Q - `Louise Alesandra Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. So, first question I have for you. Do you think a full BLA
approval would actually increase vaccination rates? And do you think you might see that as early
as this year? And then secondly, how receptive do you think U.S. regulators are to a booster, shall
we see a lot of conflicting headlines or just curious what your discussions have sounded like there.
And then lastly, your RSV vaccine, you showed a 100% efficacy rate. So, just curious if you could
elaborate more on that market opportunity for you and how big that market is in terms of sales
and other metrics. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. On the vaccination rates, Louise, from what I see and what we see i nthe different calls from
people that they are reluctant, it seems that this will play along. Some people will change their
relaxantcy or willingness to get vaccinated, even if vaccine gets full approval. And in terms of the
timelines, again, I leave it to the FDA. I know that they consider and want to pre-order.
The second, how receptive regulators are on a therapy dose? I think regulators are receptive or
not to-date, and they need to see the full packets of data. Once they see, they have to speak. So
I don't want to make comments about that. And RSV, which is clearly a very, very muchopportunity, but it is growing even more because of the -- we see that the immunology of the
disease is getting more and more hot. I will ask Mikael to give us some color here.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Yes. Yeah, we are very excited about the data and opportunity for an RSV Adults Vaccine. There
are hundred thousands of cases and they -- per year in the U.S., and they are particular of course
difficult for in older adults above 60 or adults that have underlying conditions, where the chronic
lung diseases or immune compromise. Now, there are actually up to 15,000 deaths just in the U.S.
annually, so it's not just about the difficult disease there are fatal outcomes. So, we think there is a
very large opportunity.
Now, with our vaccine to the best of our knowledge, it's the only vaccine in late clinical trials that
target RSV A and B sub-group. Please recall that the A and B sub-group variants are likely of
similar quantity circulating, some years one is larger than the other, some years they are equals.
So, we cover all of the available RSV protection by a bivalent vaccine if shown successful in final
studies.
Also, I wanted to make it clear that when you look at the data in our (inaudible) study of the very
prominent 100% protection, there are benchmark published, and please have a look. From the
adenovirus, that is also now in advanced clinical trials, which showed in the very same model
pursued by the very same U.K. institute, half of the response, around 50%. So we think, we have
a potent vaccine, we have we have a well tolerated and the unique aspect of covering both
strains, you have some cross reactivity between the strains but not a sure protection unless you
have both parts for the A and the B strain. Angela, anything you want to shed light on how you
commercially see this?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Yeah. Thanks, Mikael. And maybe just to reinforce what Mikael said, which is that there are
hundreds of thousands of older adults that are hospitalized, and tens of thousands of deaths
each year. In fact, this is the second leading cause of a respiratory illness following flu. So, we
think that we have a great opportunity to in fact develop this market, because it is quite under-
diagnosed today and underreported. And frankly, it's really in the sweet spot of what we do with
adult vaccination and also seasonal vaccinations which go well with our Prevnar franchise. So, all in
all, a tremendous and exciting commercial opportunity.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you to both. As you can see, there is a lot of excitement to do both Angela and Mikael.
And I serve the same, both for the size of the unmet medical need right now, but also for the
capabilities of what looks like a very effective vaccine remain to be proven with a Phase 3 study
that we are going to execute with the same speed as we are doing lately in our vaccine studies.
Back to you, Chris.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Thank you, Albert. Sylvia, we're just over time, but maybe we could do one very brief question,
please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Terence Flynn, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.Q - `Terence Flynn, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, thanks for taking the question. Maybe I just had a two parter; first, just wondering if you can
provide the latest point estimate on your vaccine efficacy from the Phase 3 trial. I think you gave
us that number back in April, it was around 91%. I'm just wondering if there have been any severe
cases in the vaccinated cohort? And then on Prevnar 20, how are you thinking about that in the
context of your long-term guidance? Can you actually grow your Prevnar franchise significantly
and any more detail you can provide there? Thank you so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael, it was I think 92%. Can you comment on the latest estimate and if you've seen any
breakthrough.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer And President, Worldwide Research, Development `
Yeah. This is the Phase 3 trial that will be very soon published on medRxiv, and it will appear in a
top peer-reviewed journal. Please check in on medRxiv to get details, it maybe up any day this
week. It's covered up to six months, first few months 96% protection; then above 90s between
months two and four; and then about 83% to 84% months four to six. We have retained during
that period very high protection against severe disease on hospitalization.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Angela -- Mikael, excuse me. Angela, about the Prevnar, you think you can grow it? I'm
asking you to do it, but what do you think?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Well, I think, again, it comes back to the policy questions that have been posed already by the
ACIP which will be discussed in October. As we've said today, they're really up there -- there are
two questions being posed that are different to what we have with Prevnar 13 today; which is,
number one, the ability should we or should we not be vaccinating those that are 50 plus; and
then secondly, those that are immuno compromized, 18 to 49 or 18 to 59. Both of those
populations are different to what we have with 13. So, we are engaging and we will be engaging
at the ACIP, of course, discussing our data with the relevant decision makers and stakeholders
and sharing on information. And we hope to have a positive outcome at the end of ACIP. But
honestly, this is all to be discussed, and I think a little too early to speculate what could happen.
We need to have a robust scientific discussion to really understand what these opportunities are.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman And Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Angela, we will give you some time to grow it. So, with that, I think we've come to the end.
Thank you for joining us today for your continued engagement with Pfizer, we really appreciate
and we learnt a lot from this engagement. Our experience with the COVID vaccines has taught us
a great deal about what is possible and what is impossible. And most things are possible.
So most notably, it restored us that we can drive step changes at Pfizer, not just incremental
change. To keep you updated on the progress, we are making an R&D. We will host our next
focused investor update later this year, date will be announced soon. For this event, the Pfizer
Vaccines team will provide an update on our vaccine pipeline progress, including our plans to
continue advancing our cutting-edge science in such areas as an mRNA program or COVID-19and flu as well as the RSV research program for both maternal and adult indications, and other
mRNA vaccines that we are working on.
Before we close, I want to once again thank (inaudible) for his many contributions to Pfizer and for
successfully elevating our investor relations function with best-in-class. (inaudible) you are pro,
and on behalf of all Pfizer colleagues, I wish you and your family, all the best in the next chapter of
your life. Jack is leaving behind some big shoes to fill, which is why you are thrilled that Chris has
decided to join the Pfizer team. Chris joins us from the Alexion Pharmaceuticals in Boston, where
he was Vice President and Head of Investor Relations. He brings a wealth of experience as a buy-
side analysts and portfolio manager, as well as a strong network of relationships across the
investment community. His deep knowledge over the healthcare industry would be a great asset
as we continue to advance our innovative pipeline to deliver breakthrough therapies and vaccines
to patients and long-term value to shareholders.
With that, I will bring our quarter close. Thank you for joining us. Have a great rest of your day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. You may now all disconnect.