Q1 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft Fiscal Year 2022 First Quarter Earnings Conference call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow
our formal presentation. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations, General Manager and Investor
Relations. Thank you, you may begin.
`Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are `Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer; Alice Jolla, Chief
Accounting Officer; and Keith Dolliver, Deputy General Counsel.
On the Microsoft investor relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial
summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call
and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.
Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to the non-GAAP metrics on the call.
The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or
superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are
included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's first
quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial
results.
All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year
unless otherwise noted. We'll also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a
framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of
foreign currency rate fluctuations.Where the growth rates are the same in constant currency, we'll refer to the growth rate only. We
will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete
transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will
be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording.
You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft investor relations website. During
this call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other
statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press
release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our
Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.
`Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Brett. We are off to a fast start in fiscal 2022 with Microsoft Cloud quarterly revenue
surpassing $20 billion for the first time, up 36% year-over-year. The case for digital transformation
has never been more urgent or more clear. Digital technology is a deflationary force in an
inflationary economy. Businesses small and large can improve productivity and the affordability of
their products and services by building tech intensity.
The Microsoft Cloud delivers the end-to-end platforms and tools organizations need to navigate
this time of transition and change. Now I'll highlight examples of our innovation and momentum
starting with Azure. Every organization will need a distributed computing fabric across the cloud
and the edge to rapidly build, manage and deploy applications anywhere. We are building Azure
as the world's computer with more data center regions than any other provider delivering faster
access to cloud services, while addressing critical data residency requirements.
And we are partnering with mobile operators from AT&T and Verizon in the United States to
Telefonica and BT in Europe, Telstra and Singtel in Asia-Pacific, as they embrace new business
models and bring ultra-low latency compute power and storage to the network and the
enterprise edge.
78% of the Fortune 500 use our hybrid offerings and with Azure Arc customers like Nokia, Royal
Bank of Canada, and SKF can deploy and run applications at the edge or in multi-cloud
environments. Organizations also prefer our cloud to power the mission-critical apps they rely on
every day.
GE Healthcare and Procter & Gamble migrated critical workloads to Azure this quarter and leading
companies in every industry including Bertelsmann, Kimberly-Clark, The NBA, SoftBank,
ThyssenKrupp all chose Azure for their SAP workloads. Now onto data. The leading indicator of
digital transformation success in an organizations is an organization's ability to turn data into
analytical and predictive power. Azure Synapse brings together data integration, enterprise data
warehousing, and big data analytics into a comprehensive solution.
With Synapse Link for Dataverse, organizations can analyze data from business applications like
Power Platform and Dynamics 365 with just a few clicks. With Synapse Link for Cosmos DB, they
can run real-time no ETL analytics over their operational data, and with Power BI anyone in theorganization can access these insights. Thousands of active Power BI customers are using
Synapse today.
More than ever every business needs a holistic understanding of its data estate and Azure
Purview, now generally available is helping organizations such as FedEx manage and govern on-
premise, multi cloud, and SaaS data. Now onto developers. As every company becomes a digital
company, they will need standardized tools to modernize existing apps and build new ones. From
GitHub to Visual Studio, we have the most used and loved developer tools to build any app on
any platform.
GitHub is now home to 73 million developers up 2x since our acquisition three years ago. More
and more businesses are choosing GitHub Enterprise to provide their developer teams, the most
advanced platform to build, ship and maintain software. This quarter alone we introduced more
than 70 enterprise features, 84% of the Fortune 100 use GitHub and we are seeing growing
usage from digital native companies and the world's most established firms from Pinterest to
Procter & Gamble from Stripe to Societe Generale.
We are rapidly innovating in AI and our large scale models are powering everything from meeting
recaps in Teams to helping developers code in GitHub to the next best action in Dynamics 365.
And as machine learning continues to mature, managing the life cycle of models or MLOps has
become more prevalent and Azure ML is now the go-to tool for data science teams and large
organizations from Ecolab to Providence Health Care are relying on Azure AI to better meet
customer needs.
Now to Power Platform. With Power Platform we are helping domain experts drive productivity
gains with low-code, no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents and business
intelligence. All up Power Platform now has nearly 20 million monthly active users up 76% year-
over-year.
Power Apps is the undisputed market leader in low-code no-code tools now with 10 million
monthly active users. 91% of the Fortune 500 use the service to build applications and 129
organizations have more than 10,000 users including 3M, EY, GSK, Marks & Spencer, Sony and ZF
Group. Now on to Dynamics 365. Going forward, every business process will be collaborative
powered by data and AI and will bridge the digital and physical worlds. Dynamics 365 ushers in
this hyperconnected business process era.
We continue to gain share. With Dynamics 365 and Teams, we are creating a complete new
category of collaborative applications that help businesses like Rockwell Automation, Willis
Towers Watson, surface data and insights across the entire organization. Dynamics 365 customer
insights leads its category. Customers like Meijer are using it to create 360 degree view of
customers in order to deliver more personalized experiences.
All up the number of customer profiles increased to 174% year-over-year. Now onto industry. Our
industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire Microsoft Cloud along with industry-
specific customizations to improve time-to-value, increase agility, and lower costs. We are seeing
strong customer adoption of our new industry cloud for healthcare and our cloud for financial
services and manufacturing will become more broadly available next week. Sustainability is an
existential priority for our society and for every business today.
And when we think about our approach to sustainability, it's more than just the carbon footprint of
our own data centers. With our Microsoft Cloud for sustainability we are creating an entirely new
business process category to help organizations monitor their carbon footprint across theiroperations. The world's largest baking company Grupo Bimbo for example is using our tools to
report, record, and reduce its emissions in every country where it operates.
Now on to LinkedIn. We are experiencing a great reshuffle across the global labor market as
people are rethinking not only where and how they work, but why, and as more people change
jobs than ever before, we saw record engagement as they increasingly turn to LinkedIn to
connect, learn, grow, and get hired. LinkedIn now has nearly 800 million members, confirmed
hires on the platform increased more than 160% year-over-year and this quarter we launched
new ways to help job seekers discover roles that align with how they want to work.
In a rapidly evolving labor market, companies are increasingly turning to LinkedIn Learning to
upskill and reskill their employees. We now have over 15,000 enterprise customers of LinkedIn
Learning, and we're expanding our opportunity in the creator economy, including offering new
ways for LinkedIn Learning instructors to build their audiences and connect with learners live.
Businesses continue to choose LinkedIn as the trusted way to reach professionals. LinkedIn
advertising revenue was up 61% year-over-year.
Now, on to Microsoft 365 and Teams. Flexibility and productivity are not mutually exclusive. We
are innovating to empower people to have impact -- from home, in the office, and anywhere in
between. Microsoft Teams is the only solution that supports all the ways people work. Usage has
never been higher. 138 organizations now have more than 100,000 users of Teams, and more
than 3,000 have more than 10,000 users.
Updates to Teams Rooms, including new AI-powered cameras and spatial audio, ensure every
meeting attendee is always a first-class participant. The rise of hybrid work is transforming the
enterprise phone market, and we are taking share across PSTN and VOIP. Calls originating from
Teams chats increased 50% this quarter, compared to a year ago.
Operator Connect enables organizations to bring their existing service directly into Teams. And
leaders in every industry, including Schlumberger, Westpac, ZF Group, REI, and SAP, chose Teams
Phone this quarter to meet all of their internal and external calling needs.
Moving forward, organizations will need a digital fabric that spans organizational boundaries to
address key challenges like customer service swarming and supply chain resilience. With Teams
Connect, employees across multiple companies can chat and collaborate as one extended team
without switching tenants. In private preview, we've already seen strong interest and usage from
companies like LVMH and WPP.
Teams by itself has become a first-class platform for application development. For example,
employees at Levi Strauss and NTT Data are using ServiceNow apps within Teams to access
critical info within the flow of work. Organizations are also using Power Platform to build their own
rich, collaborative applications right within Teams for everything from curbside pick up to care
team coordination. All-up, the number of organizations with more than 10,000 users integrating
their third-party and line-of-business apps with Teams increased 82% year-over-year.
We're creating a complete new category with Microsoft Viva, which brings together
communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and insights. Our acquisition of Ally.io, a leader
in the fast-growing objectives and key results category, adds new tools to help employees drive
outcomes, not just output in hybrid work. Avanade, Old Mutual, Paypal, and Toyota North America
all chose Viva to help strengthen connections between employees and their mission, between
employees and managers, and drive individual empowerment.Across Microsoft 365, we are seeing growth in all segments, including triple digit year-over-year
usage growth of Teams in frontline. Coles, one of Australia's largest retailers, chose Teams to
bring two-way communication to more than 120,000 frontline employees. And Chevron, H&M,
Lumen, and St. Jude all turned to our premium Microsoft 365 E5 offerings for advanced security,
compliance, voice, and analytics.
Now, on to Windows. Earlier this month, we launched Windows 11, the biggest update to our
operating system in a decade. When I step back and reflect on the future of how we work,
connect, and play, one thing is clear, the PC will be more critical than ever. There has been a
structural shift in PC demand emerging from this pandemic. And we are delighted with the early
response to Windows 11. With every new generation of Windows, we also unlock the next
generation of hardware innovation across our ecosystem.
And, together with our OEM partners, we are excited to offer the widest choice of Windows 11
devices at every price point and in every form factor this holiday. We are providing people and
organizations everywhere with the most differentiated devices for productivity, learning, and
gaming -- and also have a massive opportunity to create a new class of applications that take
advantage of the edge and AI capabilities in Windows, coupled with cloud. And Windows 11 is also
the most open platform. It's pioneering new store commerce models and policies. Both Amazon
and Epic Games are bringing their marketplaces to the Microsoft Store.
Now, on to security. Cybersecurity is the number one threat facing businesses today. Our goal is
to help every organization strengthen its defense through the Zero Trust architecture built on
end-to-end solutions that span all clouds and all platforms.
We analyze over 24 trillion signals across email, endpoints, and identities each day, and translate
this intelligence into innovative features to protect our customers. We have prevented more than
70 billion attacks over the past year alone. We now have nearly 650,000 customers using our
security solutions, up 50% year-over-year. And businesses like HCA Healthcare and Siemens
switched to our security solutions to protect their endpoints.
In identity, Azure Active Directory now has more than 500 million monthly active users, and we've
seen usage of third-party apps increase 1.5X year-over-year. And the future of security is
passwordless. Nearly 240 million users have adopted passwordless login to date, and consumers
can now completely remove passwords from their personal Microsoft accounts. And we're not
stopping there. Over the next five years, we will invest $20 billion to advance our security
solutions and protect customers.
Now, on to gaming. We continue to attract new gamers and retain those we've gained over the
past year and a half. We saw record first quarter monetization and engagement. This holiday
season will bring our biggest line up of content and exclusive games ever, with three new AAA
titles -- including Halo Infinite -- available via our Game Pass subscription service, which continues
to offer the best value in gaming.
We're also bringing cloud gaming to the console for the first time, enabling Xbox users to
discover and stream more than 100 games with just a click. Cloud gaming is now available in 26
countries, including as of this quarter, in Australia, Brazil, Mexico, and Japan.
We're expanding our opportunity with independent creators, as well as top studios. Updates to
Azure PlayFab make it easier for developers to integrate the creator marketplaces in games they
build. And leading publishers -- from Bungie to Krafton -- all rely on our cloud to scale and
operate their games.In closing, we have the most diversified set of digital businesses and we are innovating to expand
our opportunity across the entire portfolio to help our customers in this new era. Next week, we'll
hold our flagship Ignite conference, where we will share the next chapter of the Microsoft Cloud,
from the metaverse, to large scale AI, from hybrid work to hybrid infrastructure. I couldn't be
more optimistic about the opportunities ahead.
With that, I'll hand it over to Amy.
`Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon everyone. Our first quarter revenue was $45.3 billion, up
22% and 20% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $2.27 and increased 25% and 23% in
constant currency, when adjusted for a net tax benefit of $3.3 billion related to the transfer of
intangible properties this quarter.
Our sales teams and partners delivered a strong start to the fiscal year. In our commercial
business, customers continued to choose the Microsoft Cloud. We again saw healthy growth in
our Azure consumption-based business and increased usage across products such as Teams and
Power Platform as Satya reflected in his comments. In our on-premises business, annuity
performance in Office and Server benefited from a greater than expected mix of contracts with
higher in-period revenue recognition. And in LinkedIn, the Talent Solutions business continued to
benefit from an improved job market.
In our consumer business, Windows OEM performance was better than expected in a growing PC
market, despite ongoing supply chain constraints. We also saw positive demand signals for
Windows 11 ahead of launch, with nearly all devices built this quarter eligible for upgrade.
Microsoft 365 subscription growth drove Office consumer results. Advertising market growth
drove another strong quarter in LinkedIn as well as Search and News advertising. And in Gaming,
we were able to ship more Xbox Series X and S consoles than expected, even as demand
continues to exceed supply.
Let's move to our overall results. Against a strong prior year comparable, commercial bookings
grew 11% and 14% in constant currency, driven by consistent execution across new, add-on, and
renewal sales motions. This quarter, growth was impacted by fewer large, long-term Azure
contracts, which are unpredictable in their timing. As a result, commercial remaining performance
obligation increased 28% and 29% in constant currency to $137 billion with a roughly equivalent
split between revenue that will be recognized within, and the portion beyond, the next 12 months.
And our annuity mix increased two points year-over-year to 95%.
Microsoft cloud revenue grew 36% and 34% in constant currency to $20.7 billion, ahead of
expectations. Microsoft cloud gross margin percentage decreased slightly year-over-year to 71%.
Excluding the impact from the change in accounting estimate for the useful life of server and
network equipment assets, Microsoft cloud gross margin percentage increased roughly four
points driven by improvement in our cloud services, particularly in Azure and Office 365, partially
offset by sales mix shift to Azure.
With the weaker US dollar, FX increased total company, Productivity and Business Processes, and
Intelligent Cloud revenue growth by two points, in line with expectations. More Personal
Computing revenue growth was increased by 1 point from FX, less favorable than expected. FX
increased COGS by 1 point, in line with expectations, and had no impact to operating expense,
slightly more favorable than expected.Gross margin dollars increased 21% and 19% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage was
70%, down slightly year-over-year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate
discussed earlier, gross margin percentage increased roughly 1 point driven by improvements in
cloud services noted earlier, partially offset by the sales mix shift to cloud.
Operating expense increased 11%, lower than expected, primarily driven by investments that
shifted to future quarters. At a total company level, headcount grew 14% year-over-year, as we
continue to invest in key areas such as cloud engineering, sales, customer deployment, and
gaming. Operating income increased 27% and 24% in constant currency. And operating margins
expanded two points year-over-year to 45%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting
estimate, operating margins expanded roughly four points year-over-year.
Now to our segment results. Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was $15 billion
and grew 22% and 20% in constant currency, with better-than-expected performance in Office
commercial and LinkedIn.
Office commercial revenue grew 18% and 16% in constant currency. Office 365 commercial
revenue grew 23% and 21% in constant currency, driven by installed base expansion across all
workloads and all customer segments, as well as higher ARPU. Demand for our advanced
security, compliance, and voice offerings drove continued momentum in E5 revenue this quarter.
Paid Office 365 commercial seats increased 17% year-over-year, driven by another strong quarter
of growth in our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings.
Office commercial licensing decreased 13% and 14% in constant currency, significantly ahead of
expectations, benefiting from the higher in-period revenue recognition noted earlier. Office
consumer revenue grew 10% and 8% in constant currency on a strong prior year comparable, with
better-than-expected growth in Microsoft 365 subscriptions. Over the past two years, our
Microsoft 365 subscriber base has grown over 50%, reaching 54.1 million this quarter.
Dynamics revenue grew 31% and 29% in constant currency. Dynamics 365 revenue growth was
48% and 45% in constant currency with continued strong demand for Power Apps, which grew
202% and 197% in constant currency. And in LinkedIn, revenue increased 42% and 39% in constant
currency, with continued strength in Marketing Solutions and better-than-expected performance
in Talent Solutions from the improved job market noted earlier.
Segment gross margin dollars increased 22% and 20% in constant currency and gross margin
percentage increased slightly. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross
margin percentage increased roughly two points driven by improvement across all cloud services.
Operating expense increased 7%, and operating income increased 33% and 29% in constant
currency.
Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $17 billion, increasing 31% and 29% in constant
currency, ahead of expectations, driven by continued customer demand for our differentiated
hybrid and cloud offerings.
Overall, server products and cloud services revenue increased 35% and 33% in constant currency.
Azure and other cloud services grew 50% and 48% in constant currency, ahead of expectations,
driven by our consumption-based services. In our per-user business, the enterprise mobility and
security installed base grew 30% to over 196 million seats.
In our on-premises business, on a low prior year comparable, revenue increased 14% and 13% in
constant currency, ahead of expectations. Strength in our annuity business was driven by healthy
demand for our hybrid offerings that include Windows Server and SQL Server running in multi-cloud environments and higher in-period revenue recognition, including benefit from annuity
purchasing ahead of the Windows Server 2022 launch.
Enterprise Services revenue grew 9% and 8% in constant currency, driven by growth in Microsoft
Consulting Services and Enterprise Support Services. Segment gross margin dollars increased
28% and 26% in constant currency and gross margin percentage decreased roughly 1 point year-
over-year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage
increased roughly two points driven by improvements in Azure, partially offset by sales mix shift
to Azure. Operating expense increased 13% and 12% in constant currency, and operating income
grew 39% and 37% in constant currency.
Now to More Personal Computing. Revenue was $13.3 billion, increasing 12% and 11% in constant
currency, with better-than-expected performance in Windows OEM and Gaming. Windows OEM
revenue increased 10% driven by a stronger than expected PC market, particularly in the
commercial segment, which has higher revenue per license. These results include roughly seven
points of impact from the $210 million revenue deferral related to Windows 11 licenses sold to
OEMs prior to general availability. The deferral was lower than expected as OEMs prioritized
upgrade-eligible device builds early in the quarter.
Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue grew 12% and 10% in constant
currency driven by demand for Microsoft 365. Surface revenue declined 17% and 19% in constant
currency on a strong prior year comparable. Search and news advertising revenue ex TAC
increased 40% and 39% in constant currency, in line with expectations, benefiting from the
advertising market noted earlier. And in Gaming, revenue increased 16% and 14% in constant
currency, ahead of expectations. Better than expected console supply and continued strong
demand resulted in Xbox hardware revenue growth of 166% and 162% in constant currency. Xbox
content and services revenue increased 2% and was relatively unchanged in constant currency
against a strong prior year comparable.
Segment gross margin dollars increased 10% and 8% in constant currency. Gross margin
percentage decreased roughly 1 point year-over-year, driven by a sales mix shift to gaming
hardware. Operating expenses increased 15% driven by the Zenimax acquisition as well as
Windows 11 marketing. Operating income grew 7% and 5% in constant currency. Now back to total
company results. Capital expenditures including finance leases were $7.4 billion, in line with
expectations, and cash paid PP&E was $5.8 billion. Our capital investments, including both new
data center regions and expansion in existing regions, continue to be based on significant
customer demand and usage signals.
Cash flow from operations was $24.5 billion, increasing 27% year-over-year, driven by strong
cloud billings and collections. Free cash flow was $18.7 billion, up 30% year-over-year. This quarter,
other income and expense was $286 million, higher than anticipated, primarily driven by net gains
on investments. As a reminder, we are required to recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on
our equity portfolio.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was approximately 16%. And finally, we returned $10.9 billion to
shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. Now, before we turn to our outlook, I'd
like to provide a couple of reminders. First, the outlook we give, unless specifically noted
otherwise, is on a US dollar basis. Second, my remarks for the next quarter do not include the
impact from the Nuance acquisition, which we now expect to close by the end of Q2 or early Q3.
With that, let's move to our second quarter outlook. In our commercial business, our
differentiated market position, compelling solution portfolio, and consistent execution shoulddrive another strong quarter. Commercial bookings growth should again be healthy but impacted
by modest growth in the Q2 expiry base and the normal quarterly volatility from large, long-term
Azure contracts previously discussed.
Microsoft cloud gross margin percentage should decrease roughly two points year-over-year.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate previously discussed, Q2 gross margin
percentage will increase roughly two points driven by continued improvement across our cloud
services, despite revenue mix shift to Azure. Longer term, we expect the Microsoft cloud gross
margin percentage to be impacted by revenue mix shift to Azure, increased usage of our
Microsoft cloud services, and ongoing strategic investments to support our customers' success.
And, on a dollar basis, we expect capital expenditures to be roughly in line with last quarter, as
we continue to invest to support growing demand. Now to FX. Based on current rates, we expect
FX to increase revenue at the total company and all individual segment levels by approximately 1
point and have no impact on total COGS or operating expense growth.
Next to segment guidance. In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue between
$15.7 billion and $15.95 billion. In Office commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office
365, with healthy seat growth across customer segments and continued momentum in E5. In our
on-premises business, we expect revenue to decline in the high-teens, consistent with the
ongoing customer shift to the cloud.
In Office consumer, we expect revenue to grow in the mid-teens, with continued momentum in
Microsoft 365 consumer subscriptions. For LinkedIn, a strong job market and continued
engagement on the platform should drive revenue growth in the mid-30% range. And in
Dynamics, we expect revenue growth similar to Q1 driven by strength in Dynamics 365, including
continued momentum in Power Apps.
For Intelligent Cloud, we expect revenue between $18.1 billion and $18.35 billion. Revenue will
continue to be driven by Azure which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from
our per-user business and from in-period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts.
In Q2, we expect healthy, broad-based growth in our Azure consumption business, consistent
with recent trends. And our per-user business, while continuing to benefit from Microsoft 365
suite momentum, should see a moderation in growth rates given the size of the installed base. In
our on-premises server business, on a higher prior year comparable, we expect revenue growth
in the mid-single digits, driven by continued demand for our hybrid solutions.
And in Enterprise Services, we expect revenue growth to be in the high single digits. In More
Personal Computing, we expect revenue between $16.35 billion and $16.75 billion. Despite
ongoing supply chain constraints, OEM revenue should grow low to mid-teens including six points
of impact from the $210 million Windows 11 revenue deferral that shifted revenue from Q1 to Q2.
In Windows commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and
our advanced security solutions should drive low double-digit growth. In Surface, we expect
revenue to decline in the single digits as we continue to work through supply chain uncertainty
particularly in our premium devices. In Search and news advertising ex-TAC, we expect revenue
growth in the low to mid-20s. If supply chain uncertainty reduces advertising budgets, our results
would be negatively impacted.
And in Gaming, on a high prior year comparable that included the launch of our new consoles and
strength across Xbox content and services, we expect revenue growth in the high single-digits.
Console sales will continue to be impacted by supply chain uncertainty. And in Xbox content andservices, we expect revenue growth in the mid-teens with strong engagement on the Xbox
platform, in a holiday quarter that will include several AAA title launches.
Now back to company guidance. We expect COGS of $17 billion to $17.2 billion and operating
expense of $12.7 billion to $12.8 billion. In other income and expense, interest income and
expense should offset each other.
And finally, we expect our Q2 effective tax rate to be approximately 17%. In closing, we are off to
a strong start in FY'22 with tremendous opportunity to drive sustained, long-term revenue
growth. We remain focused on growing high value usage across our differentiated Microsoft
cloud offerings and delivering exciting new consumer experiences with Windows 11, Surface, and
our Xbox gaming platform as we enter the holiday season.
Our consistent approach to investing for these and other future opportunities, while continuing to
deliver solid operating performance, will drive strong results throughout FY'22 and beyond.
Now Brett let's go to Q&A.
`Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Amy. We'll now move over to Q&A. Out of respect for others on the call, we request the
participants please only ask one question. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Excellent. Thank you guys for taking the question and congratulations on another remarkable
quarter. Satya I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the edge computing opportunity
something like that you started off your remarks with and also something that we're hearing a lot
of chatter about within the investor community and within the technology community. Can you talk
to us about how you think about sizing that opportunity in terms of the programmable edge and
maybe help us understand the Microsoft architectural approach versus perhaps some of the
competitors coming into the marketplace from the CDN perspective who are talking about the
competitive differentiation by having a more of a last mile solution. Can you help us kind of
understand the differentiation in those approaches?
A - `Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you so much, Keith, and a great question because we always as you know, Keith
architected Azure for the distributed computing fabric to remain distributed. In other words, when
we talked about hybrid computing even five years ago, the idea was always that we will always
have a cloud and then we will have a distributed cloud infrastructure for application deployment.
So when we think about cloud plus edge, we even put even the multi-cloud control plane in there,
right. So whether it is what's happening with say 5G and how naturally compute will go to where
data is getting generated with low latency access to a factory floor to a hospital to cities where
you want to play XCloud gaming that sort of one phenomena. The other is just literally treating
every cloud whether it's the on-premise data center, it's the other public cloud and our public
cloud and being able to use Azure Arc and its control plane to ease the deployment across allclouds, that's another thing that we are seeing. So when I think about what is going to be key in
such a distributed world is having that full suite of application infrastructure, right, all the way from
the management and security control plane something like Azure Active Directory managing the
security principles and identities and to management control planes like Azure Arc. And so we
feel well-positioned for it and I think that the multi-cloud multi-edge world is sort of really how we
built Azure in the first place and I think we're still very early in all of that playing out, but we feel
well-positioned.
Q - `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Excellent. Thank you guys.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Keith. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies `
Amy, commercial bookings up 14% is impressive, but it's slow down from last quarter's 25 against
more difficult comp. I think you had mentioned some color around Azure and the size and
duration. Can you just maybe anything else you would call out there and realize it's come up with
tough comps?
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Brent. Yeah, I think the important thing, when you think about bookings performance is to
talk about what happened before you get to those volatiles of large Azure commitments that
create some of the tough comparables that we're talking about and that's really the opportunity
to execute against selling the Microsoft day to day, right, which is Dynamics, Microsoft Cloud,
GitHub in the broader universe. Our execution on that was actually quite good. Very good
renewals, very good recapture rates, very good add-ons we name you sell outside of the normal
pattern. And so I feel very good, it's very consistent execution to your point Brent this quarter
versus others on that front, and then to your point, it's sort of important not to time some of
these larger long-dated Azure contracts. That's where the volatility is, the day-to-day execution of
Azure commitments actually it was very consistent, the volatility comes with some of the bigger
things and with a lot of them in Q4 less on a comparable basis in Q1 and that happens from time
to time.
Q - `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thank you.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Brent. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Our next question is coming from `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Please proceed with your question.Q - `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Amy, heading into this Q1 release, I'd say there was a higher than normal level of
worry from investors about your Windows PC segments in light of all of the unit shipment and
supply chain issues and yet you put up Windows OEM number that blew away your guidance and
your guidance for the Windows OEM business in December was also I think way above what
people are modeling. So I guess, in essence, how did you dodge that bullet Amy, maybe you
could unpack that OEM performance for us and your view into the second half of the fiscal year?
Thank you.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Karl. I want to start by saying and repeating something that Satya I think was careful to
include in his remarks and it is the central nature of the PC to really the nature of both hybrid work
and fundamentally about getting jobs done. And I think the central role it's played, we've talked
about, I think now for a number of quarters and I think the reality of that continues to exist and I
think become more real for people as we talk about what hybrids going to look like. And continue
to learn what hybrids is going to look like. And to that end, PCs the market grew this quarter and
it was constrained by supply. I believe Q2 will also be a strong demand quarter that is constrained
by supply. But even with that, we see a growing market and in particularly in both Q1 and Q2 we
see a strong demand in the commercial segment. And I think that ties directly back to some of
Satya's comments about the central nature of the device. Then of course we do get some
benefit Karl because revenue per license is higher in commercial than it is in the broad market.
Those things together, which is a growing market, strong Windows performance within that
market in commercial in particular and then the resulting higher revenue per license results and I
think a very strong position in Q1 and Q2.
Q - `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS `
Got it. Congrats on that results, Amy.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Karl. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research with Bernstein Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you very much and Satya, Amy congratulations on the really strong quarter. With inflation at
least in the US increasing and likely to further accelerate due to government spending. Amy, how
do you think this increasing inflation will impact your customers and your business. And Satya in
your remarks you discussed how digital is deflationary and inflationary world. Can you give more
color on how the shift to cloud and digital will offset inflationary pressure beyond purely pricing?
Thank you.Yeah, maybe I'll just start and then Amy you can add to it. I mean in an inflationary environment,
the first place any business should go to is, how to really ensure that they're able to get
productivity gains and even dealing with constraints for example if you have supply chain
constraints one of the things you want to do is run your factories at the efficient frontier. That
means things like digital twins, simulation are the ones where you are going to make sure that
every production run has the least amount of wastage. So I think any which way you look, whether
it's in the knowledge worker, first-line worker, whether it's actually digital twins and simulation, all
of those things are going to be the best way for any company to deal with inflationary pressures,
so that they can in fact have the best productivity and thereby the best ability to be able to meet
aggregate demand out there. So that's why we are very, very excited about sort of making sure
our software products are available to our business customers all around to be able to manage
through this inflationary environment and I'll let Amy add to that.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Satya and I think really Satya got to the hard market where I tend to go when you
think about when you see the intensity of customers across industries and across geographies
wanting to adopt digital technology for many of the reasons Satya just explained and there is
numerous scenarios across I think most industries. That acceleration of course regardless frankly
the overall environment is a place where we feel like we offer the best portfolio at the Microsoft
Cloud and with our industry clouds to make that doable with a very fast time to value. And so our
ability to execute against that regardless of the spend environment means we've got the right
portfolio and a high value to customers as deployable quickly that can get them results when they
need it. And I think that's reflected most of the surveys that really quite to preference for our
cloud to help customers do that. So while of course it's hard to predict what any quarter or
second half will do the things I believe to be sustainable or push to digital or push to cloud help
customers get value quickly and us being a trusted advisor and partner to help that happen.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you. That's extremely helpful. I appreciate it and congrats again.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mark. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Our next question is coming from the line of `Kash Rangan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Kash Rangan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thank you very much. Great quarter, you gave us great useful perspective on inflation. I was
curious if you can expand your thoughts Satya and Amy on the labor shortage we're seeing in the
tech market. How are you dealing with that and also a little bit more of a deeper perspective on
supply chain and how does Microsoft get visibility considering that you're doing your cloud
business and your CapEx commitments seems to be quite impressive. How much visibility do you
have into component availability and your ability to ramp up your CapEx? Thank you so much.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Kash for the question. So on the labor market maybe I'll start Amy you can add to this. Alldoing everything to help everyone find their best economic opportunity and when Ryan Roslansky
who is the CEO of LinkedIn talks about the great reshuffle. I think along with the hybrid work
change there is a real question everybody is asking not only where and how they work, but why
they work, and so to be able to make sure that we can help them find the opportunity that they
are looking for is I think the most critical work that we can be doing. The second side to this
though is also to take the productivity of the people whether they're on the front lines and the
first line workers or the knowledge workers or even software developers and making sure that
they have the best tools whether it's the GitHub Harness and Visual Studio Code for people or
developers or whether it is Power Apps or whether it is the Office 365 and then Microsoft 365
tooling to help them be most productive. That's I think the thing that we are very, very focused on
because key to dealing with labor shortages is productivity gains and that plus the work we're
doing in LinkedIn is where we are focused on. So with that Amy I'll hand it over to you.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Satya and Kash as you probably noted I did talk about in this quarter we did add a year-
over-year 14% headcount growth. And I think that's important because when you talk about how
what and why we do remain focused on being a great employer to have people achieve those
goals and be able to achieve them here. Secondly you asked some good questions about the
supply chain impact and specifically around data center given our spend in this quarter and my
guidance seems to be similar next. A lot of that Kash is long lead time. So we do have good
understanding lead times required to meet the capacity signals that we're seeing. I think we do
good job managing that it's not to say we're not impacted multiple suppliers are important to be
able to manage through that. And I believe the team has done a very good job. In terms of
specific impacts, I noted it in some of my remarks, I do think demand will exceed supply in PCs
and Surface for us on this quarter particularly a premium devices in consoles for Xbox and
another challenge I noted will just need to watch the advertising market through the quarter
because obviously their willingness to spend is entirely connected to their supply as well.
Q - `Kash Rangan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Brilliant. Thank you so much.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Kash. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Raimo Lenschow, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Raimo Lenschow, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you. Could you speak a little bit too in your remarks you talked a lot more about the hybrid
cloud and how certain tools is actually seeing a lot of benefits from that. What are you seeing on
the client side about that dynamic in terms of people moving to the cloud and kind of workloads
migrating over there and less certain tools versus actually kind of that being in that benefit for
you. It seems like the pendulum is being in the other direction for you some help there would be
helpful? Thank you.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Maybe I can talk a bit to sort of what we are seeing let's take the most. I would say the classic
model of lift shifted modernized motions, which is I think at the core of hybrid cloud that's still
early innings. Everyday I wake up to talk to customers, we're planning out that motion and making
sure that they're able to modernize their entire application portfolio in various ways. So that's
obviously is still very, very strong. The interesting thing for us even in that context is even in the
height of our success in the client server era, we really were never a Tier 1 company whereas now
we are in the sense that you take all the SAP workloads that are running on Azure, which I talked
about or other Tier 1 workloads that are migrating whether it's HPC or transactional database
workloads. So that's the other thing which is happening is real production workloads moving over.
And then on the data estate that's the place where perhaps we are seeing significant traction
and I referenced that in some of my remarks all the way from what's happening with say
operational data stores like Cosmos DB with Synapse Link to Synapse or Power BI to Synapse or
in fact Dynamics 365 Dataverse to Synapse. So there is tons and tons of coming together of the
data estate with for example regulatory requirements now there you need to have real
governance on data that's where Azure purview becomes again a pretty big driver of that data
gravity to the cloud from a governance perspective. The other side of this is what's happening
with dev tools, right, when you start having CICD to your cloud then modern new applications and
the agility with which you build. So with GitHub VS Code becoming essentially default for any
modern dev shop in the enterprise or otherwise that's the other thing that we see. But perhaps
more than anything else, the interesting circuit for us is what happens with Teams right with
Teams you suddenly now have a new platform in which applications get hosted whether it's
developed by the enterprise or by third-party and I referenced that in my remarks and those
applications in many cases get built on our cloud use things like Azure DB, use things like Power
Platform. And so the reinforcing and compounding side of Teams to Power Apps to Dynamics to
Azure is probably one of the most unique things we are seeing in terms of new applications
getting build. And then there is the cloud plus edge which I referenced in the answer to the first
question, which is in a multi-cloud, multi-edge world, you still need a control plane that manages
all that complexity and that's where something like Azure Arc and GitHub become the two
standards you develop in one place, you deploy in one place and then you propagate to every
cloud that you want to deploy it.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And Raimo just maybe to add, yeah, you may have been asking also just about the nature of
some of the comments I was making about on-prem server results and it really points the hybrid
strength. That's the way I tend to think about it and whether that's the fact that people are
committed to Windows and SQL Server and whether they run that in Azure or whether they run it
in a multi-cloud environment. It's a commitment to the platform and so I just wanted to make that
probably more clear as one of the drivers of our server products and cloud KPI execution this
quarter.
Q - `Raimo Lenschow, Analyst, Barclays `
Perfect. Thank you. Very clear. Congrats.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Raimo. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Brad Reback, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.Q - `Brad Reback, Analyst, Stifel `
Great, thanks very much. So recently several of your Tier 1 SIs have talked about having trouble
hiring fast enough to keep up with demand and clearly your results sort of speak to that. But as
we look going forward, have you seen any early indications that customers are potentially having
to slow down the pace at which they move to your commercial cloud? Thanks.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean I would sort of point to Amy's guide for the next quarter as far as we are sort of looking at
is the demand across the entire stack is pretty robust and obviously what happens in the labor
market, whether it's in the tech labor market or any other labor market will ultimately be
something that we'd all be subject to you, but the thing at least about the software businesses
are in order to deal with a lot of other constraints whether they are labor shortages or supply
shortages deploying digital tech is one way to sort of really overcome them. So that's sort of
what we see clearly I think in the tech sector today there is more structural demand and perhaps
supply all around. But we like that position, because at some level, we just want to make sure that
we have the most competitive products out there and as long as we continue to do so I think
we'll be fine.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and I do think frankly, Brad, just the signals we're seeing on consumption and usage I would
say customers are doing a good job of figuring out the priority list that delivers value to them as
Satya was saying I do know obviously that the labor market has a real impact and I think that's also
why you are seeing investment being made by us in particular into training, skilling making
deployment easier making time to value faster really having documentation that makes getting
started and trials far more accessible and so when you talk about adding productivity, it's also an
investment we have Microsoft need to make and to making our products easier and really terrific
to get going on. So that you're not constrained in the ways that you're talking about.
Q - `Brad Reback, Analyst, Stifel `
That's great. Thank you.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Brad. Operator, we have time for one last question.
Operator
Thank you. Our final question comes from Brad Sills with Bank of America. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Bradley Sills, Analyst, Bank of America Securities
Great, thanks guys for taking my question. Congratulations on a real nice quarter here. Satya I
wanted to ask about comments you made earlier in the call around investments coming and new
releases coming for some of the industry clouds financial services manufacturing. How should we
view this, should we think of the Azure business results kind of driven increasingly by these
industry cloud-type solutions away from horizontal type projects like ERP database that's
obviously been there, but is this an incremental opportunity that's coming, that we should be
thinking about? Thank you so much.A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Yeah, thank you for the question. Absolutely, we think of the Microsoft Cloud, which includes
Azure, it includes Dynamics 365, it includes Microsoft 365, it includes things like Power Platform, it
includes even GitHub and VS Code. So that's why we keep stressing the full modern tech stack
that makes up Microsoft Cloud. And then with the industry cloud we add value on top of that
which is specific whether it's in retail, whether it's in manufacturing, obviously in healthcare and
our pending Nuance acquisition we'll even add further to that. So obviously we are very, very
focused on. First of all not any just one piece which will be each one of those has to be
competitive on their own, it's the coming together of the Microsoft Cloud and in the industry
cloud adds further value on top of it. So yes I think ultimately our competitiveness comes because
of all of those layers integrated and delivering that time to value for our customers, while
maintaining openness in each layer and competitiveness in each layer.
Q - `Bradley Sills, Analyst, Bank of America Securities
That's great. Thanks. Satya.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Brad. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's call. Thank you for joining us today and
we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Amy Hood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference. Once again we thank you for
your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.