Q3 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft Fiscal Year 2021 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow
the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions). And as a reminder, this conference is being
recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations, General Manager, Investor Relations.
Thank you. You may begin.
`Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Executive Officer; `Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer; Alice Jolla, Chief Accounting Officer; and
Keith Dolliver, Deputy General Counsel.
On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial
summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call
and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.
Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP financial
measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of
financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional
clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's third quarter performance
in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results.
All growth comparisons comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding
period of last year unless otherwise noted. We'll also provide growth rates in constant currency,
when available, as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed
excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in
constant currency, we will refer to the growth rate only.We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the
complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask
question, it will be included in our live transmission and the transcript and in any future use of the
recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations
website.
During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections
or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations
and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ
because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during
this conference call and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and other
reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty
to update any forward-looking statement.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.
`Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Brett. It was a record quarter powered by our continued strength of our commercial
cloud. Over a year into the pandemic, digital adoption curves aren't slowing down. In fact, they're
accelerating and it's just the beginning. Digital technology will be the foundation for resilience and
growth over the next decade. We are innovating and building the cloud stack to accelerate the
digital capability of every organization on the planet.
Now I'll highlight our growing opportunity and momentum starting with Azure. As the world's
COGS become more digital, computing will become more ubiquitous and decentralized, w e are
building Azure to address organizations' needs in a multi-cloud, multi-edge world. We have more
data center regions than any other provider, including new regions in China, Indonesia, Malaysia,
as well as United States. Azure has always been hybrid by design and we are accelerating our
innovation to meet customers where they are. Azure Arc extends the Azure control plane across
on-premise multi-cloud and the edge and they are going further with Arc and Arc-enabled
machine learning and Arc-enabled Kubernetes. Companies like Fujitsu and KPMG are using Arc to
simplify hybrid management and run Azure data services anywhere. Our differentiation across the
cloud and the edge is driving deeper and more strategic partnerships with leading companies in
every industry from Total and Repsol in energy to Kaiser Permanente in healthcare and Amadeus
in travel.
Now to data and analytics. Core to the competitiveness of every company going forward will be
their ability to turn data into predictive and analytical power. The next-generation analytics service,
Azure Synapse, accelerates time to insight by bringing together data integration, enterprise data
warehousing and big data analytics into one unified service. No other provider offers the limitless
scale, price performance, and deep integrations of Synapse. With Spark integration, for example,
organizations can handle large-scale data processing workloads. With Azure machine learning,
they can build advanced AI models. with Power BI, anyone in the organization can access insights.
We are seeing adoption from thousands of customers, including AB InBev, Dentsu and Swiss Re.
Queries performed using Synapse have increased 105% over the last quarter alone. We are
leading in hyperscale sequel and non-sequel databases to support the increasing volume variety
and velocity of data. Customers continue to choose Azure for the relational database workloads
with SQL Server on Azure VMs use up 129% year over year. And Cosmos DB is the database of
choice for cloud native app development at any scale. Transaction volume increased 170% year
over year.Now onto developers. As every organization looks to build its own digital capability, they will need
to modernize existing apps, build new apps and have a standard way of doing both. We offer the
most popular tools to help developers rapidly grow from idea to code and code to cloud. Visual
Studio has more than 25 million monthly active users and GitHub is home to nearly 65 million
developers. Over the past 12 months, the number of monthly active organizations using GitHub
increased 70%. In fact, some of the most groundbreaking technological achievements of the past
year including critical COVID-19 vaccine trials as well as the first powered flight on Mars were only
possible because of the contributions of the open source communities on GitHub.
At the PaaS layer, we are innovating to help developers infuse AI into solutions they built. Large-
scale AI models are becoming platforms and we've seen dramatic advances in research and
development by Open AI whose models are trained and hosted exclusively on Azure. GPT-3 is
generating 4.5 billion words per day on average with hundreds of apps in production across a
range of industries. With Azure Cognitive Services, organizations can build applications that see,
hear, speak, search, understand and accelerate decision making. New capabilities enable
developers to add semantic search to their apps and help companies like AT&T, Duolingo and
Progressive build custom neural voices for their products.
And we are doing -- going further with Azure Precept complete platform from silicon to service,
which simplifies the process of developing, training and deploying AI at the edge. As the virtual
and physical worlds converge, the MetaVerse comprised of digital twins, simulated environments
and mixed reality is emerging as a first-class platform.
We are leading and seeing traction across public and private sector. Bentley Systems is building a
digital twin of the City of Dublin to re-imagine urban planning using Azure Digital Twins as well as
Azure IoT. PepsiCo is simulating its manufacturing processes to improve product consistency
using our autonomous systems platform.
And from Airbus Toyota to L'Oreal and Intel, customers in every industry are transcending space
and addressing complex challenges using mixed reality. The US Army for example will use
HoloLens-based headset augmented with our cloud services. The new Microsoft Mesh builds on
this momentum allowing for Holographic interactions with true presence in a natural way on any
device. We are already seeing early adoption by Accenture, which is using Mesh to build
immersive virtual office experiences.
Power platform is becoming the next-generation business process automation and productivity
suite for domain experts in all functions. We have taken a unique approach to what is an
expansive and high-growth TAM bringing together robotic process automation, low-code/no-
code tools, virtual agents and Business Intelligence. Using Power platform, any domain expert can
automate a workflow, create an app, build a virtual agent or analyze data rapidly driving
productivity gains across the organization through smart automation. Just like Office
revolutionized productivity gains for knowledge workers, Power platform will do the same for
domain experts. All-up, Power platform is being used by nearly 16 million monthly active users, up
97% year over year. Revenue increased 84% year over year Telstra, T-Mobile, Toyota North
America and Unilever have all build centers of excellence for Power Platform with thousands of
workers who are using this low-code/no-code tools to build apps and workflows for everything
from COVID-19 screening to product quality control.
In robotic process automation, Coca-Cola saved months of development time by integrating
Power Automate with legacy systems to automate shipment verification, payroll processing, and
much more. And in analytics, Daimler chose Power BI to surface insights across the organization,
while maintaining the highest levels of security.Now onto business applications. Dynamics 365 had a breakthrough quarter as companies turn to
intelligent business applications to adapt and grow. Revenue increased 45% as we continue to
take share from competition. We are adding capabilities across Dynamics 365 to address
organizations' most pressing challenges. New integrations with Teams make it simple to meet,
chat, call and collaborate directly within Dynamics 365, and new Dynamics 365 Intelligent Order
Management helps companies support omnichannel fulfillment. We are seeing increased
adoption of Dynamics 365 across every industry from ABN AMRO in financial services to BMW in
automotive.
More broadly, across the Microsoft cloud, we are leading with industry and cross-industry
solutions and expanding our investments to help organizations use our complete tech stack along
with industry specific customizations to improve time-to-value, increase agility and lower costs.
This quarter, we introduced new industry clouds for financial services, manufacturing and non-
profits, building on the momentum of existing clouds for healthcare and retail. And our pending
acquisition of Nuance will bring our solutions directly into the physician-patient loop which is
central to healthcare delivery.
Now on to LinkedIn. We once again saw record engagement as LinkedIn's 756 million members
use the network to connect, learn, create content and find jobs. Conversations increased 43%,
content share was up 29%, and the hours on LinkedIn increased by 80%. We are helping creators
use LinkedIn to expand their economic opportunity. Thousands of expert instructors are
monetizing their content on LinkedIn Learning. Freelancers can now attract clients with dedicated
pages and with the creator mode members can build a following and engage communities.
In a world facing a growing skills gap, we are helping employers create feedback loops between
skills, learning, credentials and jobs. 60% of the Fortune 500 use LinkedIn Learning to skill and
upskill their employees. Nationwide Insurance for example is using LinkedIn Learning to provide
personalized curriculum to 26,000 associates. And new tools bring together courses with skills
assessments helping companies like BlackRock, Gap, and TaskRabbit source job candidates
based on proven proficiencies. Businesses continue to turn to LinkedIn as the trusted way to
reach professionals ready to do business.
LinkedIn Marketing Solutions revenue was up more than 60% year over year. Over the past 12
months, revenue has surpassed $3 billion and is growing nearly three times faster than the B2B
digital advertising market.
Now onto Microsoft 365 and Teams. Hybrid work will require a new operating model. That's why
we built Teams as the organizing layer for all the ways people work, learn and collaborate. Teams
now has over 145 million daily active users, almost double the number a year ago. In markets
where employees have returned to the workplace including Australia, China, New Zealand, South
Korea and Taiwan, we have seen usage continue to grow. And the number of organizations with
more than 1,000 users integrating their third party and line of business applications with Teams
has increased nearly 3x year over year.
We are accelerating our innovation, adding more than 300 features over the past year, including
more than 100 new capabilities so far in 2021. New inclusive meeting experience for hybrid work
including custom gallery views enable anyone to be seen, heard and participate whether they are
at home, in a meeting room, at an office or on a factory floor. And customers like GM and Sanofi
are using Teams for unified communications including for voice.
Teams is extending beyond communications, creating an entirely new category of modernworkflows within Teams. American Airlines, for example, highlighted in their earnings call, the cost
savings it's driving by using a Power App within Teams to help their frontline workers manage
critical gate operations. Teams is transforming not only internal collaboration but companies how
they do business. We added support for shared workspaces with people outside the organization
and we are seeing Teams used for everything from virtual retail showrooms and personal
shopping to interactive webinars.
We introduced Microsoft Viva this quarter creating a new market category for employee
experience. Viva brings together knowledge, learning, communication and insights in an
integrated experience directly within Teams and Microsoft 365. Companies like Coca-Cola and
Unilever will use Viva to help their employees thrive in the new era of hybrid work. All up Microsoft
365 users generated more than 38 billion collaboration minutes in a single day this quarter. Office
365 now has nearly 300 million paid seats and organizations across the private and public sector
like the City of Helsinki, Bausch Health, Stryker are increasingly choosing our premium offerings
for advanced security compliance voice and analytics.
People are turning to Windows PCs more than ever to stay connected productive and secure.
Windows 10 now has more than 1.3 billion monthly active devices and Microsoft 365 Consumer
surpassed 50 million subscribers for the first time.
Now on to security. The threat landscape has never been more complex or challenging and
security has never been more critical to our customers. This is driving increased demand for our
end-to-end capabilities across identity, security compliance and management backed by cloud
scale AI and human expertise encompassing all clouds and all platforms. What differentiates us
and drives customer value is the interconnection between identity, endpoint apps, cloud, data
and infrastructure across a cloud native XDR and SIM, all informed by our operational security
posture which analyzes more than 8 trillion signals each day.
Our approach enables organizations to adopt a Zero Trust architecture, while also reducing the
complexity, cost and risk created by stitching together point solutions. That's why more than
400,000 customers use our offerings, including many of the world's most established firms like
Boston Consulting Group, HCA Healthcare, Lowe's and UBS. And Signal is using Azure
confidential computing to protect the data in use for its millions of customers.
We are going further to help protect organizations. We are delivering on our ambition to
eliminate passwords introducing password-less sign into Azure AD. Our Azure AD paid customer
base has more than doubled year over year to over 300,000. New capabilities in Microsoft 365
Defender help organizations better understand prevent and mitigate active threats. Defender
has blocked 30 billion threats on email and nearly 7 billion on endpoints over the past 12 months
alone. And our Compliance Manager now offers more than 300 out of the box assessments for
regulations such as GDPR.
Now onto gaming. We are expanding our opportunity as we help both gamers and creators play,
connect and build across communities on any device. People are turning to Xbox more than ever
to play and chat with friends and we saw record engagement this quarter, led by the strength on
and off console. With Game Pass, we are redefining how games are distributed, played and
viewed. Just last week, we added cloud gaming via the browser expanding our reach across PC
and mobile. Content is the flywheel behind the services growth and upon the closing of our
acquisition of ZeniMax Media this quarter, we make 20 of the world's most iconic and beloved
games accessible via Game Pass with more to come.As games evolve into metaverse economies, we are building new tools to help anyone sell
creations on our platform. Minecraft has nearly 140 million monthly active users, up 30% year-
over-year, making it one of the leading platforms in the creator economy. Creators have
generated over 350 million from more than 1 billion downloads of mods, add-ons and other
experiences in Minecraft. This is not counting and including activity outside of our marketplace.
We are also seeing a vibrant marketplace emerge in flight simulator with partners now able to sell
content directly within the game.
In closing, we are innovating across the entire tech stack as we differentiate and lead in areas that
will be critical to the success of every customer going forward. I'm optimistic about our
opportunity ahead.
With that, I'll hand it over to Amy, who will cover our financial results in detail and share our
outlook, and I look forward to rejoining you for questions.
`Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. My comments today reflect the impact of the
ZeniMax acquisition for approximately three weeks this quarter as well as in our outlook. There is
no impact from the Nuance acquisition. It is expected to close by the end of the calendar year.
Our third quarter revenue was $41.7 billion, up 19% and 16% in constant currency and earnings per
share was $1.95 and increased 39% and 34% in constant currency, when adjusted for the tax
benefit related to the recent India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes.
Many trends across industries, customer segments and geographical markets continued to
improve, which coupled with strong execution by our sales and partner teams drove another
quarter of double-digit top and bottom line growth.
In our commercial business, accelerating digital transformation enabled by our unique Microsoft
cloud value drove healthy demand for our hybrid and cloud offerings. Strong Azure consumption,
increased platform commitments, and higher usage of Teams Power platform and our security
offerings were key beneficiaries.
Within our small and medium business customer segment, continued improvement in cloud
purchasing trends more than offset transactional licensing weakness, and in LinkedIn's Talent
Solutions, business annual contracts and job postings improved with the job market.
In our consumer business, Windows OEM and Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions benefited
from a much stronger than expected PC market, despite significant ongoing constraints in the
supply chain. Improvement in the advertising market again benefited our Search and LinkedIn
businesses, and in Gaming, we continue to see record engagement and strong monetization
across our platform as well as demand that significantly exceeded supply for Xbox Series X and S
consoles.
Moving to our overall results. Commercial bookings growth was ahead of expectations, increasing
39% and 38% in constant currency on a growing expiration base and low prior-year comparable.
Growth was driven by consistent execution across our core annuity sales motions and an increase
in number of larger long-term Azure contracts. As a result, commercial remaining performance
obligation increased 31% and 32% in constant currency to $117 billion with a roughly equivalent split
between the revenue that will be recognized within and the portion beyond the next 12 months
and our annuity mix increased two points year over year to 94%.Commercial cloud revenue, also better than expected, grew 33% and 29% in constant currency
to $17.7 billion. Commercial cloud gross margin percentage expanded 3 points year over year to
70% driven by the change in accounting estimate for the useful life of server and network
equipment assets. Excluding this impact, commercial cloud gross margin percentage was up
slightly, with improvement in Azure gross margin, mostly offset by sales mix shift to Azure
With the weaker US dollar, FX increased revenue growth by approximately 3 points, about a point
more favorable than anticipated. FX increased COGS and operating expense growth by
approximately 2 points, both in line with expectations.
Gross margin dollars increased 19% and 16% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage was
69%, relatively unchanged year over year with roughly 1 point of favorable impact from the
change in accounting estimate noted earlier. Excluding this impact, company gross margin
percentage was down, driven by strong revenue growth in cloud and gaming that resulted in
sales mix shift.
Operating expense increased 5% and 3% in constant currency, lower than anticipated, primarily
driven by investments that shifted to future quarters. Overall company headcount grew again this
quarter, up 12% year over year, reflecting our focused investments across key areas like cloud
engineering, sales and customer deployment. Year-over-year growth in operating expense
includes roughly 2 points of impact from continued COVID-related savings.
Operating income increased 31% and 27% in constant currency and operating margins expanded
4 points year over year to 41% including nearly 2 points of favorable impact from change in
accounting estimate and roughly 1 point of favorable impact from COVID-related savings.
Now to our segment results. Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was $13.6 billion
and grew 15% and 12% in constant currency, primarily driven by Office 365 and LinkedIn. Office
Commercial revenue grew 14% and 10% in constant currency. Office 365 Commercial revenue
grew 22% and 19% in constant currency, again driven by installed base expansion across all
workloads and customer segments, as well as higher ARPU.
Demand for our high-value security, compliance and voice offerings drove strong momentum in
E5 again this quarter. Paid Office 365 commercial seats grew 15% year over year to nearly 300
million with acceleration to the cloud in our small and medium business segment and a recovery
in growth in our first line worker offerings.
The accelerated cloud adoption negatively impacted Office Commercial licensing, which declined
25% to 27% in constant currency, a bit below expectations. In Office Consumer, revenue grew 5%
and 2% in constant currency, slightly below expectations primarily due to transactional weakness
in Japan.
Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions grew to 50.2 million, up 27% year over year. Dynamics
revenue grew 26% and 22% in constant currency, better than expected driven by Dynamics 365
revenue growth accelerating to 45% and 40% in constant currency, with particular strength in
Power Apps, and our finance and operations offering.
LinkedIn revenue increased 25% and 23% in constant currency, ahead of expectations. Our
Marketing Solutions business accelerated again this quarter to 64% revenue growth. Segment
gross margin dollars increased 15% and 12% in constant currency and gross margin percentage
was relatively unchanged year over year with nearly 2 points of favorable impact from the change
in accounting estimate.Operating expense increased 4% and 2% in constant currency and operating income increased
26% and 20% in constant currency, including 4 points due to the change in accounting estimate
Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $15.1 billion, ahead of expectations, increasing
23% and 20% in constant currency. Server products and cloud services revenue increased 26%
and 23% in constant currency, ahead of expectations. Azure revenue grew 50% and 46% in
constant currency, better than anticipated, driven by continued strength in our consumption-
based business. And in our per user business, growth in our enterprise, mobility and security
installed base accelerated again this quarter, up 30% to over 174 million seats.
And on a strong prior-year comparable, that benefited from the end of support for Windows
Server 2008. Our on-premises server business increased 3% and was relatively unchanged in
constant currency, with strong annuity performance driven by continued customer preference for
our hybrid and premium offerings.
Enterprise Services revenue grew 10% and 8% in constant currency, with better than expected
performance in Microsoft Consulting Services, Segment gross margin dollars increased 27% and
24% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage increased 2 points year over year with
roughly 2 points of favorable impact from the change in accounting estimate. Operating expense
increased 12% and 10% in constant currency and operating income grew 41% and 36% in constant
currency, with roughly 7 points of favorable impact from a change in accounting estimate.
Now to More Personal Computing. Revenue was $13 billion, increasing 19% and 16% in constant
currency, with better than expected performance in gaming, Windows OEM and Search. In
Windows, the stronger PC market resulted in overall OEM revenue growth of 10% driven by
continued customer demand. OEM non-Pro revenue grew 44% and OEM Pro revenue declined
2% on a prior-year comparable that included the end of support for Windows 7.
Windows Commercial Products and Cloud Services grew 10% and 7% in constant currency, with a
lower than expected mix of in-quarter recognition from multi-year agreements. In Surface,
revenue grew 12% and 7% in constant currency lower than expected primarily due to execution
challenges in the commercial segment.
Search revenue ex TAC increased 17% and 14% in constant currency, benefiting from the
improved advertising market noted earlier. And in Gaming, revenue increased 50% and 48% in
constant currency, Xbox hardware revenue grew 232% and 223% in constant currency driven by
our new consoles. Xbox content and services revenue, which now includes ZeniMax, grew 34%
and 32% in constant currency, with better than expected performance of first-party titles,
particularly Minecraft. Segment gross margin dollars increased 14% and 11% in constant currency.
Gross margin percentage decreased 2 points year over year driven by sales mix shift to Gaming
Operating expense decreased 3% and 4% in constant currency and operating income grew 27%
and 22% in constant currency.
Now back to total company results. Capital expenditures, including finance leases, were $6 billion,
in line with expectations, driven by ongoing investment to support growing global demand from
increased customer usage of our cloud services. Cash paid for PP&E was $5.1 billion. Cash flow
from operations was $22.2 billion and increased 27% year over year, driven by strong cloud billings
and collections.
Free cash flow was $17.1 billion, up 24%. Other income and expense was $188 million, higher than
anticipated, primarily driven by net gains on investments. As a reminder, we are required to
recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on our equity portfolio. Our non-GAAP effective taxrate was approximately 14%. Aan finally, we returned $10 billion to shareholders through share
repurchases and dividends.
Now let's move to the outlook. As a reminder, in Q4, we began to see growth rates that reflect
the first full quarter impact of COVID-19 a year ago, both across revenue and operating
expenses. Last year, across Windows OEM, Gaming and Surface, we saw surges in purchasing
and usage, that will negatively impact Q4 growth rates. In our Search and LinkedIn businesses, Q4
growth rates will be positively impacted given the advertising and job markets of a year ago. And
in our transactional business, the slowdown in purchasing in Office and Server last year will benefit
Q4 growth rates, particularly in our small and medium business segment.
Next, in our largest quarter of the year, we expect the accelerating trends Satya discussed, our
differentiated market position and continued solid execution to result in another strong quarter.
Growth in commercial bookings should again be healthy, but impacted by a declining expiry base.
As always, an increasing mix of larger long-term Azure contracts, which are more unpredictable in
their timing, can drive quarterly volatility in bookings.
Commercial cloud gross margin percentage should increase roughly 4 points year over year with
less than 2 points from the change in accounting estimate. As a reminder, the favorable impact
continues to lessen over time. Excluding the accounting change Q4, gross margin percentage will
also benefit a bit from investments we made a year ago to support increased usage needs and
remote work scenarios.
Longer term, commercial cloud gross margin percentage will continue to be impacted by
revenue mix shift to Azure, increased usage of our productivity and cloud solutions and ongoing
strategic investments to support our customers' success. In capital expenditures, we expect a
sequential increase on a dollar basis as we continue to invest to meet growing global demand for
our cloud services.
Now to FX. Based on current rates, we expect FX to increase total company Productivity and
Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud revenue growth by approximately 3 points, More
Personal Computing revenue and total operating expense growth by approximately 2 points and
COGS growth by approximately 1 point
Next to the segment guidance. In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue
between $13.8 billion and $14.05 billion; in Office Commercial, revenue growth will again be driven
by Office 365 with healthy seat growth and upsell opportunity to E5; in our on-premises business,
we expect revenue to decline in the high teens, consistent with the ongoing customer shift to the
cloud.
In Office Consumer, we expect mid to high teens revenue growth, driven by continued
momentum in Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions against the low prior-year comparable
impacted by the transactional purchasing weakness noted earlier. In LinkedIn, we expect revenue
growth in the mid-30% range driven by continued strong engagement on the platform and
improvements in the advertising and job markets. And in Dynamics, continued momentum in
Dynamics 365 will drive revenue growth similar to last quarter. For Intelligent Cloud, we expect
revenue between to $16.2 billion and $16.45 billion. In Azure, revenue will again be driven by
strong growth in our consumption-based business. And our per user business should continue to
benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum, though we expect some moderation in growth
rates, given the size of the installed base
In our on-premises server business, we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits, driven bycomparable in the transactional purchasing noted earlier.
In our Enterprise Services, revenue growth should be roughly in line with last quarter. In More
Personal Computing, we expect revenue between $13.6 billion and $14 billion. In Windows, overall
revenue should grow mid single digits, driven by Windows Commercial products and cloud
services growth and continued demand for PCs, partially offset by ongoing supply chain impacts
and the comparable noted earlier.
In Surface, on a strong prior-year comparable, we expect revenue to decline in the mid-teens as
we work through the supply chain and execute challenges noted earlier. In Search ex TAC, we
expect revenue growth in the mid 40s, driven by improvements in the advertising market. In
Gaming, we expect revenue growth in the mid to high single digits, significant demand for the
Xbox Series X and S will continue to be constrained by supply and on a strong prior-year
comparable we expect Xbox content services revenue to decline in the mid to high single digits.
Now back to company guidance. We expect COGS of $13.7 billion to $13.9 billion and operating
expense of $13.1 billion to $13.2 billion. As a reminder, in operating expense in Q4, we we will
benefit from continued COVID related savings as well as the prior-year comparable, which
included roughly 4 points of impact from a $450 million charge related to the realignment of our
retail stores strategy. In other income and expense, interest income and expense should offset
each other.
And finally, we expect our Q4 effective tax rate to be approximately 16%.
Now I'd like to share some closing thoughts, as we look to next fiscal year. Overall, we have
performed well through three quarters of our fiscal year in a challenging environment and we fully
expect a strong Q4 to lay the foundation for FY'22. We will of course continue to focus on
delivering strong revenue growth in the short term.
But even more importantly, this year has reinforced the critical importance of investing boldly to
capture the significant list of opportunities ahead of us. Excellence and daily execution coupled
with a thoughtful vision for the future, that creates value, as well as opportunity for our customers
globally will lead to long-term revenue and profit growth.
With that, Brett, let's go to Q&A.
Questions And Answers
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Amy. We'll now move to Q&A. Out of respect for others on the call, we request that
participants please only ask one question. Operator, can you please repeat the instructions
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you guys for taking the question. And great quarter. I guess the question was for Satya and
Amy. We're seeing these really great commercial bookings result come through, 39% growth in
the current quarter. And Satya, you've been talking to us a lot about these more strategic deals
and the acceleration of digital transformation. Can you give us a little bit of color of what comes inthese more strategic deals, how does it change the dynamics of what types of solutions people
are using for Microsoft, the scope of sort of how deeply are getting into these customers and
sort of how much of the IT budget you're getting, maybe talk to us a little bit about the
timeframe for which this comes into revenues. What should our expectation be when you get one
of these big strategic deals? How long does it take to really ramp up this customer onto the
broader Microsoft platform?
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Keith for the question. I think we feel very good both I would say of consumption and
usage today, as well as you mentioned, the bookings because both of those at any given point in
time is, what we look at. The overall approach to the Microsoft cloud, if you look at the breadth of
what any customer may be doing with us, they may be doing hybrid cloud infrastructure with us,
they may be for the first time doing Tier-1 workloads on the cloud with us, right, whether it's in
core financials or in retail or in healthcare. Also, they could be deploying the centers of excellence
around Power Platform and Power Platform sits at the intersection of pretty much Dynamics,
Azure and Teams, for example, and of course, we are seeing the growth of Teams and Teams is,
as I have always maintained, is not just about one thing, it's not about just meetings or it's not
about just chat. But most importantly it's a platform that drives in fact line of business and
business application termination inside of a collaboration workflow and so that's what we're
seeing, and then the other thing I would say that we are now seeing is also that industry level
differentiation of the all-up Microsoft Cloud. So whether it's in retail, whether it's in healthcare or
in financial services, we feel that we now can bring the power of the entire cloud together in a
much more strategic way.
A - `Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer `
And maybe just to build on what Satya was saying, Keith, if you think about bookings or the
remaining performance obligation, what I tend to think of is when you hear those words I think
often we pivot toward these Azure contracts we talk a lot about because they create some
volatility, but really the foundation for these long-term strategic contracts is the Microsoft Cloud
holistically, so what you will see is not just Office 365, but the suite of Microsoft 365, you will see
higher level additions of security or compliance workloads. You will see Dynamics 365 as a pillar
with Power Platform because they're spanning end-to-end industry solutions to combine it back
to what Satya is saying.
So you see it add a good bookings number, which is fundamentally about do you renew what's
up for renewal, do you add workloads, do you add users. And do you and does it have a
component of an Azure commitment? All of those things together are what creates this change.
And if you look at remaining performance obligation, you see there's a good bit of it that's going
to be recognized in the next 12 months and another equally balanced portion that's beyond that.
So it's not all long term, this transition happens quickly, usage builds, it's both per user, it's also
per workload and it's consumptive based. So it's really a more holistic view that I would have
people take as opposed to thinking about an Azure contract of long dated.
Q - `Keith Weiss, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you, guys.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Operator, next question please.Operator
Thank you. The next question is from the line of `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thanks. Satya, on healthcare, if you could just frame your aspirations long-term, where you'd like
to be in this industry, and if you could just comment on where you still think the lowest hanging
fruit is as it relates to the opportunity set specifically building on the Nuance acquisition?
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure Ben, thanks for the question. When I look at the industry cloud opportunities, we think of
healthcare as a very critical opportunity for us and a huge and expansive addressable market. If
you think about as a percentage of GDP, obviously healthcare is significant and fundamentally
when I think about the provider market in particular, digital tech is going to play a huge role for
every provider to do the things that they care the most about which is improve the patient
outcomes and reduce costs, and reduce the burden on the physicians.
So that's where the Nuance acquisition is a great fit for us. We've been partnered with them. It
also enhances our platform approach, Brent. What we have always done is gone into an industry
with a platform and an ecosystem approach, for example, with Nuance, they've done a fantastic
job of taking what's perhaps the most defining technology of our times which is AI and applying it
to healthcare, which is the most important application space and they've done that again by really
partnering -- partnering deeply with EMR systems and the rest of the healthcare ecosystem
ultimately to benefit the providers.
And so we really looking forward to that acquisition closing and we are already partnered with
them in our cloud. But this allows us to take that and integrate more deeply with what we're
doing with Teams and some of our AI capabilities even more deeply and we think we can add a
significant amount of value, both to our partners in the healthcare ecosystem as well as most
importantly to the providers'
Q - `Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thank you.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Brent. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research. with Bernstein Research. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research. `
Thank you very much and again congratulations on the quarter and how well the company is
executing. I'd like to change gear a little bit and drill in a bit on the Dynamics 365 business,
Frankly, were this part of any other company or even a standalone business, it would be such a
center of enthusiasm by investors, given how fast it's grown. Satya, when you said Dynamics 365
is taking share from competitors, are you talking about ERP or CRM or is or is it both or is itsomething different. And what are the key drivers of that strength in growth and how sustainable
do you believe that is? Thank you.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks so much for the question, Mark. And it's -- first of all, we are very, very excited about
what's happening again with Dynamics 365 and when you asked, where is the share coming and
where is the growth coming, it's coming from all those categories. But the most interesting thing
is as somebody wants to deploy even an omnichannel solution for example in the world where
what's physical and what is digital need to come together unlike anything before because the
pandemic is bringing about such structural change, you need both that federated inventory
management, distributed inventory management system I referenced in my remarks, and you
need the Customer Insights product that is probably one of the fastest growing modules which is
that 360 degree view on customers and customer engagement, and then including the supply
chain. So, bottom line is that every customer is looking to digitize and bring together the data
silos, in fact, silos of CRM and ERP systems. And that's probably one of the most interesting
things we have observed is it's not about replacing even an existing ERP or an existing CRM, it's
about buying Dynamics and helping them bridge even some of the disparate CRM and ERP
systems they may have.
So we do see this as a huge opportunity as the world modernizes and puts in a complete next
generation more proactive versus reactive business systems and that's what Dynamics has been
architected for. So I feel like coming out of this pandemic and the architecture and all the hard
work the team has done over multiple years now positions us very well.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research. `
Thank you. I much appreciate it.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Mark. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks. Question for Amy on OpEx. Amy, the OpEx growth has been extraordinarily low the last
several quarters, the growth rate looks like it's going to inch up a little bit in the June quarter, but
you mentioned the investments are shifting to future quarters, you probably don't want to give
too much on fiscal '22. But I'm just wondering whether we should extrapolate that into thinking
that OpEx growth in fiscal '22 should get back to the pre-COVID levels of plus 10% and if you
don't want to be that specific, maybe you could just help us outline some of the variables we
should keep in mind as we model that line item post-COVID recovery in fiscal '22. Thank you.
A - `Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks Karl. And I do think in Q4 and it's why I specifically called out the 4 points of impact from a
year ago, because it does start to get to a more normalized rate in Q4 and I say that because our
headcount growth, which I noted earlier, has been 12%, and so overall you would expect OpEx
growth to at least mirror your headcount growth over any period of time and we've certainly
benefited through the year from COVID-related savings, we'll will continue to have that in Q4 andas we get to '22, I would expect to see a little less of that as people get back to the workplace at
some level and resume some other normal levels of activity, and so I do think you're heading in
the right direction on that and listen, I think that type of growth, with the type of opportunity,
we're seeing, the number of TAM expansive opportunities really Satya went through in his
comments where we feel like we've got a unique position and opportunity to take share, I feel
pretty confident at being able to certainly land that OpEx growth number.
Q - `Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS `
Got it. Thank you, Amy. Thanks Karl.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, I think just to add to it Amy, I think I hope in all of your models, you have new rows, at
least when we think about it from even just last year to this year, we are in many more new
categories and in those categories with significant differentiation. So when we think about OpEx
it's not about adding OpEx to this stuff that we had in the past, there's leverage there. In fact it's
OpEx going into new TAMs.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Operator, next question please.
Operator
Absolutely. Our next question comes from the line of `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Yes, thanks very much and congrats on the quarter. Satya, I was wondering if you can just talk a
little bit more about Viva. I realize it's early days on that, but just kind of feedback you're getting
on that product. And how do you see that sort of fitting in, there seem to be some nice
adjacencies with Dynamics with Office 365. So I was just kind of curious if you could give us a little
bit of a hand on how it's going, and sort of your excitement level about over the next quarter,
next couple of years. Thanks.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
No. Thank you so much for the question, it's a lot, it's very much a great example of what I was
saying in terms of creating a new category, right. When I look back multiple years now, we started
talking about Power Platform. And as I said, even in my script today, we now have a full suite of
tools that essentially created this next generation business process automation productivity suite
in Power Platform that's at scale and growing at scale.
Similarly, we think of the Experience Cloud as a distinct cloud opportunity for us. It brings together
even today, what have been disparate tools, whether it's the knowledge mining and
management systems in an enterprise connecting it to learning systems and ultimately the
employee experience in communication system. So we've obviously is a very has massive
adjacencies to what we are doing with Microsoft 365 and Office 365 in particular Teams, but it
also, to your point, connects up with line of business systems, HRM systems and all of the other
things we do in Dynamics as well as other third-party SaaS applications.So it's very early days. And so, we'll take the same approach we have taken, whether it's in
security, whether it's in Power platform, whether it's in Dynamics and many other places where
you've seen us grow substantial new business essentially as part of Microsoft cloud, but we are
very excited about what this opportunity represents.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Kirk. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Absolutely. Our next question comes from the line of `Kash Rangan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Kash Rangan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, thank you very much. Congratulations on the quarter, Satya, I know you've said that you expect
tech as a percentage of GDP is tracking about 5% or roughly double over the next 10 years or so.
How should we think about Microsoft's share in that context, is it going to be steady or do you
see that expanding and if it is going to expand, what are the key products and markets that will
drive your relative share growth as you outperform tech and as tech outperforms GDP? Thank
you so much.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Kash for the question. I think that first of all, we are big believers in two things, one is we
need to be competitive in each layer. And then the coming together of each layer into a cohesive
coherent architecture of the full stack or the Microsoft cloud creates that differentiation and that
will define what we think is going to be increasing share for us as tech itself as a percentage of
GDP doubles. So if you look at it, when it's -- whether it's on the hybrid Infrastructure or that multi-
cloud multi-edge world, which I believe is going to be the world 10 years from now, we are very
well positioned. We have led in it, we currently lead in it and we plan to continue that. When it
comes to data, when I look at even what we have been able to do with Synapse even in the just
last year and what that can do both at the cloud and the edge, when it comes to AI, what we are
doing with open AI and our Cognitive Services or what we are doing with Power Platform,
Developer SaaS one of the most exciting things again that I believe is the next 10 years is going
to be about developers and the digital capability in every enterprise and we are the leaders
there, right, when you think about BS code as well as GitHub. And then of course, all of the things
that we're doing with Microsoft 365 and Dynamics and industry set. So ultimately we don't take
anything for granted. But that said, we are well positioned for what is expansive TAM and with
competitive differentiation, both in the individual layers of the stack, as well as the cohesiveness
of the stack itself.
Q - `Kash Rangan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you so much. That's, sounds like a share gain story. Thank you so much. Appreciate
it.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor RelationsThanks, Kash. Operator, next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Gregg Moskowitz, Analyst, Mizuho with Mizuho. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Gregg Moskowitz, Analyst, Mizuho `
Okay, thanks very much for taking the question. Satya, in your prepared remarks, you spoke
about an an increase in verticalization of Azure, can we double click on that a bit more, how much
incremental opportunity do you see in industries like financials, like manufacturing and are there
other verticals that may make sense to more actively pursue over time as well?
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for the question. We absolutely think that ultimately customers are looking to increase
their time to value, lower cost and improve agility. So being able to customize these workflows to
come up with industry schemers because when you think about increased digitization and
workflow automation, it does take that next level of schematization of what is perhaps today not
digital inside an industry. And so therefore what we do by stitching together of coming together
of even Microsoft 365, Teams, Power Platform with certain workflows with data inside of Azure as
well as Dynamics, that absolutely improves the ability for any customer in any one of these
industries to improve their time to value.
So yes, it is going to both, help us with adoption rates increase, the speed with which had
increases in it also differentiates us and we'll continue to look and one of the other things that
we're doing is this is not just one industry at a time, it's also the cross industry workflows.
So we absolutely believe that we already talk about not just any individual part of our cloud, we
talk about only one thing, it's called the Microsoft cloud and now we are increasingly talking about
Microsoft cloud by industry and cross industry.
Q - `Gregg Moskowitz, Analyst, Mizuho `
Very helpful, thank you.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Greg. Operator, we have time for one last question
Operator
Our final question will come from the line of `Raimo Lenschow, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Raimo Lenschow, Analyst, Barclays `
Hey, thanks for squeezing -- thanks for squeezing me in. I wanted to ask about security and what
we see in terms of change of the industry and how Microsoft kind of fit in there, where obviously
in the last quarter it was kind of a big topic. Can you talk a little bit about what you see in terms of
customers realizing the broadened offering from Microsoft and how the cloud is playing a
changing role the there? Thank you.
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you for the question. Obviously, security is a super important topic for every customer,
every board, every executive team and the fundamental approach we have is how do we ensure
that every customer has implemented a zero trust architecture, that's the name of the game,
which is how can Microsoft through our participation in the security industry accelerate essentially
the cyber defense of the entire digital sector and beyond.
And so, to me what we have done is taken a pretty unique approach of bringing identity,
endpoint, application, infrastructure all together with the XDR and SIM, which is cloud native,
that's pretty unique because we really don't let seams get in the way, we make sure that any
customer who is able to sort of deploy these systems together has more defense in depth, but
also the aggregate data to be able to detect and respond to any intrusion because that's sort of
the key posture.
And then you couple that with our operational security posture when you're processing 8 trillion
events and using that to continuously help our customers is increasing, to your point, the cloud
adoption rate. So if you look at some of the challenges like half NIM, the cloud was not impacted
and when we did sort of a lot of work to make sure that the patches were out even for servers
that were out of support for multiple years.
And so, but at the same time, any business that was -- had moved already to the cloud had none
of those issues. So therefore, I think we are going to see increased cloud adoption. We're going
to see increased usage of end-to-end security suites, like what we offer, and most importantly
great hygiene and great operational security posture all the time with zero trust architecture.
Q - `Raimo Lenschow, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you.
A - `Brett Iversen, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks Raimo. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us
today and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.
A - `Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you all
A - `Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and
you may disconnect your lines at this time.