Q3 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Tesla's Third Quarter 2021 Q&A webcast. My name is
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations, Senior Director of Investor Relations and I'm joined today by our CFO, Zachary
Kirkhorn; and our Senior VP `Andrew Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain and Energy Engineering as well as other executives. Our Q3 results were
announced at about 3:00 PM Central Time in the update deck we published at the same link as
this webcast
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow-up. Please use the raise hand button to join the question queue. But before we jump
into the Q&A, Zach has some opening remarks. Zach?
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks Martin. We are continuing to make great progress as a company, setting new
records on each of the most important financial metrics for Q3. Overall, we delivered just over
240,000 cars, 20% higher than last quarter and 70% higher than the same quarter last year. We
were also able to achieve an annualized production run rate of over 1 million cars towards the end
of the quarter.
The increase in production rate has primarily been driven by further ramping of the Model Y at
our Shanghai factory. Additionally, we have made great progress increasing production volumes
of Model S and have recently started the ramp and deliveries of Model X. It will take a bit more
time to get this program back to higher volumes, but based on demand we are targeting toWe have also completed the transition of our Shanghai factory as our main export hub. This has
enabled us to supply more vehicles to the North America market and to introduce Model Y to
Europe. Due to part shortages and logistics variability we have not been able to run our factories
at full capacity. It's important to note that while we have roughly doubled deliveries year to date,
this has been exceptionally difficult to achieve.
I want to thank our supply chain team for their incredible work and our production teams for
showing impressive flexibility as we make adjustments real time. This team's expertise in the chip
industry across all Tiers has made a huge difference in managing through these challenges.
Additionally, we never reduced our production forecast with our suppliers, as we're adding
capacity as quickly as possible. I also want to thank our suppliers for their dedication and
partnership to Tesla. Despite these increases in production and generally higher prices our
backlogs are continuing to grow and average customer wait times are extending. The only
practical way to address this in the immediate term is to do everything we can to build more cars
on our existing production lines which is where we are focused.
Similar dynamics are also playing out in our storage business as we are working to expand
Powerwall and Megapack production as quickly as parts and sells allow us to do so. Additionally,
we have made good progress on the in-house battery manufacturing program and we're excited
to have expanded to Full Self Driving beta program to more customers. Financially our Auto gross
margins reached 30.5% on a GAAP basis and just under 29% excluding regulatory credits, which
is our strongest yet. This benefit primarily comes from higher volumes, particularly out of the
Shanghai factory increased mix of the Model Y as we -- and we have made good progress,
increasing Model S volumes.
The Model S has now returned to positive gross margin and we expect this to increase with
higher production and the ramp of Model X. As was the case in Q2, there were some net
benefits from pricing actions. However, this remains small in the context of other contributors.
Please keep in mind that given backlog it will take time for the impact of recent changes to flow
through our financials. Note that we are also not yet recognizing additional revenue from the FSD
beta program. Supply chain challenges, including (inaudible) continued to provide cost headwinds
as was also the case with FX this quarter.
While we are seeing an impact from the rising commodity and labor costs we have also been
adjusting pricing, which should help to compensate. Overall, as I mentioned in our last call, our
P&L continues to benefit from the marginal of profitability of each incremental unit with higher
fixed cost absorption. As a result of the great progress on margins, volume, and appropriate
management of overhead costs we were able to achieve an operating margin of just under 15%,
exceeding the long-term guidance we've laid out previously.
On cash, we generated record operating cash flows of $3.1 billion and continued to invest heavily
in the build out of manufacturing supercharging and service capacity. We also continued to retire
high-interest rate debt including the early settlement of our 2025 Senior Notes of 1.8 billion
during the quarter. As we look forward, we are clearly quite a bit ahead of the pacing required to
achieve our target annual growth rate of 50% this year. Q4 production will depend heavily on
availability of parts. But we are driving for continued growth.
We are also nearing assembly of our first production cars in Austin and Berlin. It's important to
stress, while the first production car is an important milestone the hardest work lies ahead in the
ramp. Please keep in mind that we are pushing the boundaries on new product and
manufacturing technologies at these factories, which makes it difficult to predict the exact pace
of the ramp.These factories will also partially weigh on our margins as we work towards volume production.
Overall, I'm very proud of what the team has accomplished and I'm excited for our next phase of
growth into Q4 and into 2022. The team has done a tremendous job improving our financial
health in a short period of time, while also continuing to preserve improve our precision and pace
of execution. Thank you.
Questions And Answers
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much and we will now take questions from institutional and retail shareholders
that we posted on our website.
The first question is, when should we expect the first vehicles to be delivered with 4680 cells.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah, thanks. Martin. Early next year from a non-cell perspective structural battery crash range and
reliability testing are on track to be complete this quarter testing to date has gone well and the
Fremont manufacturing line is on track to support. However, similar to what Zach said before, this
is a new architecture and unknowns may exist still. Our top priority is ensuring quality in what we
deliver. And from a cell perspective, we are comfortable with the design maturity and
manufacturing readiness matching the pack timeline I just mentioned.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The second question from institutional investor comes, do you still expect
to start production of the $25,000 model in 2023. What are the biggest hurdles from now until
then.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Martin. Yeah. We're working on a strategy to increase our production rates as quickly as
possible. I think Zach (inaudible) that well and we're doing this well to try and add the least
amount of incremental complexity to the business. We don't want to add any new vehicles to our
lineup when we're generally in a cell-constrained world while there is still more runway to grow
these existing products. We are focused on Model Y expansion in Austin, Berlin, ramping S and X
further in three months to restore to past levels while also growing 3 and Y production in Fremont
and Shanghai. As we mentioned before after Model Y in Austin our next product launch will be
Cybertruck and that timing course depends on increasing cell capacity both from our suppliers
and through our inherent so as well as many other headwinds we faced in supply chain and
completing our currently full plate of products on the table.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The third question is with FSD beta training data set to explode
exponentially as software has released a wider and wider audience. Are there any early
takeaways with regards to how quickly versions can iterate and be pushed out from biweekly to
weekly or even daily.
A - Unidentified Speaker
At this point, it's not so much about how much data can we collect but how quickly can we
process the data we've collected. This is where Dojo comes in as we mentioned on AI Day withsubstantially faster computer and Dojo will be able to iterate more often than we do and[ph] say
the training and that takes one day instead of one week makes a huge difference in our ability to
push out more updates. But realistically, there's a whole lot more that comes into play when
iterating software updates. The whole infrastructure from top to bottom, including testing and
validation needs to be set up for faster iteration to daily updates are not really realistic for now.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question is, can you provide an update on future model
development and how much diversity in your fleet will be necessary to achieve 20 million in
annual volumes. The best selling cars in the world today only sell slightly over 1 million units. So is it
possible to achieve 20 million units with just S, X, 3, Y, truck and the $25,000 car?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Martin. Yeah as we've mentioned before, we've seen record growth in both Model 3 and
Model Y segments where Model 3 is currently the best-selling luxury sedan worldwide. And as we
mentioned at our shareholders' meeting Model Y is poised to be the best selling vehicle in the
world. Tesla continues to break modes in these Vehicle segments and we hope to do so with
each new product as we've said publicly will eventually expand the vehicle item to get to larger
volumes and we believe that we will need to be in all major segments across small, mid-size,
large sedans, SUVs and trucks to do so along with the course a massive space of robotaxis[ph].
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question from retail shareholder is what is Tesla's goal for vehicle
production capacity for the four current factories Fremont, Shanghai, Austin and Berlin by 2024.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. Thanks, Martin. Our goal as a company here is to grow on an average basis[ph] 50% per
year and so you can extrapolate that out. There may be some periods of time in which we're well
ahead of that. There could be some periods of time despite best efforts we are slightly lower
than that, but that remains the long-term goal of the company. In Fremont we're continuing to
push the boundaries of what's possible there. Over the last 12 months, we've done about
430,000 cars of production and based upon everything that we know in the factory where the
bottlenecks are what the potential is we're targeting to increase that another 50%.
I think that will be a difficult goal, but that's the goal that the internal team has and they're going
to continue to push on that. As we look towards Shanghai we're continuing to push the
boundaries there and we continue to ramp production there as well. So most recently the ramp
up to Model Y, which was our biggest contributor of volume in Q3 will continue to ramp that
factory and in our plans there with time are to keep growing the capacity in that factory.
Austin and Berlin are interesting factors because our first iterations of capacity there are on
Model Y but we've intentionally set these factories and locations in which they have a quite
significant amount of land and ability to expand and so we'll take Model Y at these factories.
We're trying to get to 5,000 cars a week as soon as we can. And then, we'll continue to push
beyond that, potentially even getting to 10,000 cars per week at those factories and then we'll
add Cybertruck here in Austin and continue to grow from there.
So our goal is to get to millions of cars per year over the next couple of years and then ultimately
in the long-term be able to achieve 20 million cars per year. We're going to grow as quickly asfeasibly possible with an eye towards a 50% annual growth rate.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Great, thank you very much. The next question is, what is your view on the tightening regulatory
environment for FSD, the investigation and broad data request by NHTSA some of the recent
nominees (inaudible) have been publicly critical of FSD including engaging with short[ph] sellers
online. How will you manage this environment?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President of Vehicle Engineering
Thanks, Martin. Yeah. As we have been for years. We always engage with and it's another
worldwide regulatory bodies to share our knowledge and to work with them on our approaches
on both active and passive safety. There are ongoing regulatory inquiries taking place all the time
and especially on the subjects like FSD they are at the cutting edge of technology development.
During these investigations my team, myself are always cooperative as much as possible. We
expect and embrace the scrutiny of these products and know that the truth about their
performance in the innovations, our products have will ultimately be all that matters. In the end
and as I've said on previous calls, we take safety as a top priority in all our designs.
This is because our primary motivation is from -- coming from a team of incredible engineers
designing software and hardware that saves lives and prevent injuries and doing so we will
continue to be transparent to the public on how our technology is both developing from an auto
pilot safety data, the latest of which we just shared in the Shareholder Update and you can also
see in review a wide variety of customer post FSD videos and social media.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Right, just to add to that, I mean as Lars said safety is extremely important for Tesla. It's the right
thing to do. And if you look at various independent testing and regulatory testing of our products.
You can see the work of incredibly talented engineers and the results of those tests and our goal
in developing safety-oriented software around the car is to continue to go beyond what the
hardware is able to provide, if you can prevent a crash from happening that's the safest way to
manage this and I think at a macro level here, what we're seeing and this is entirely
understandable and expected is that the automotive industry is going through a transition from
the traditional car as we know it to more of a computer software oriented sensor suites around
them that can manage things beyond just what the driver manages.
And the regulatory bodies are understandably so are interested in understanding how to
regulate in this environment and this is no exception to that. So as Lars mentioned here, I think
this is a great thing. We're excited to partner and we will work collaboratively with all regulatory
bodies who want to go on the journey to the transition to a software-oriented vehicle.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question is service remains an issue with appointments available
weeks or even months out. Likewise supercharge (inaudible) become untenable at some
locations. What concrete steps is Tesla taking to improve the customer experience in these two
key areas?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, I'll take the service part of this question, Andrew. You can take the supercharging part. Wehave contributed to that based upon the information that we had. The first is that and I think this
is kind of this is not unique to us is that the return to some sense of normalcy in a post-pandemic
world has happened I think more quickly than most people expected and what we're seeing here
is that the number of miles that people are driving has increased. There may have been some
demand for service during 2020 or in the early parts of 2021 that customers put off and so there
is a bit of a catch up that's occurring that has increased demand for service.
At the same time in the macro environment here logistics, moving parts, sourcing parts, has
become increasingly more difficult, which is well known issue in the world right now as well as
challenges in the labor market and so that's kind of the simultaneous increase in demand for
service when the ability to supply that service has been impacted for the reasons I mentioned.
And so we saw an uptick, primarily in Europe and North America and service wait times over the
course of the summer, and we've been working extremely hard since then to address this and
we've seen our wait times come down. So this is not the case in every location. But if you think
about it from regional average perspective, we are seeing improvements there.
We remain super-focused on adding locations and so over the last year we've grown our physical
footprint of service centers by 35%. We have grown our footprint of mobile repair by over 40%.
We're also adding staffing as quickly as we can in the areas that are most impacted by the
imbalance of supply and demand for service, but I think the most important part about all of this
is and we said this on calls before the best service is no service and so we have been incredibly
focused as a company both on the initial quality of our vehicles and reliability of our vehicles. And
we've seen pretty substantial improvements in both of those metrics over the long term and
over the last couple of quarters.
So it is something that remains on our minds We monitor this very closely, but hopefully that's a
helpful explanation into the context in what we're doing.
A - `Andrew Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain and Energy Engineering `
Yeah. And on the supercharger side, the supercharging team monitors congestion and plans
expansion to ensure customer experience with minimal wait times alongside the growth in our
vehicle fleet. While we certainly have work to do in expanding capacity in some congested areas,
average congestion on the network has decreased over the past 18 months, nonetheless we're
not standing still. We are executing accelerating expansion plans globally, the network has
doubled in the last 18 months and we are planning to triple it over the next two years and even so
on an individual site basis to combat existing congestion more quickly where it is isolated and
problematic, we expedite local relief sites, deploy mobile superchargers, and we try to introduce
pricing strategies that encourage more off peak usage to avoid the waiting.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
And just one thing to add on supercharging. If you haven't experienced our latest iteration [ph] of
battery packs that can handle fast charge rates in combination with our 250-kilowatt charging
stations is pretty incredible. And this is a really important component to supercharging capacity
because the faster you can charge the more charge sessions that you can have on an individual
post, the better the customer experiences as you're going on a long-term journey because
you're supercharging times are lower. So this is a really important part of the strategysupercharging team has done a great job rolling these out but it requires a combination of both
the 250-kilowatt charging and our latest iteration of battery packs.
And we've also maintained an ongoing roadmap on software improvements dynamic routing to
avoid busy superchargers that's actually really helpful. We take the real-time business of the
stations into account when choosing where to navigate people on their road trip. I mean beyond
that, we're also continuing to improve the trip planner itself and how it estimates how much
energy people use. So it's not too conservative and (inaudible) charge more than they need to
which is another thing that can delay total trip.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you very much. The next question is this considering any other ideas, other than FSD
with the real world AI that can bring additional software[ph] revenue to Tesla. If not can Tesla
consider building interesting games around FSD beta?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure. On AI day we did talk about potential future where Dojo could be used as a neural net
training platform for other companies. It's not a focus of ours today as we are fully subscribed on
Dojo with our internal uses. We do expect to continue to improve the in car experience in the
context of FSD.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Great, thank you. And maybe last question from shareholders is how does FSD take rate -- how
has FSD take rate changed since introduction of monthly subscription. Are there any plans to
increase the FSD pricing as wider release becomes imminent?
A - Unidentified Speaker
I'll take the second part of the question first and we won't be providing any forward-looking
commentary on our pricing strategy or what may happen here over the near term. With respect
to the first part of the question it has been an interesting theme for us to impact within the
company. I mean what I'll say just as a general statement before I make a couple of specific
comments is that the things that we learn on FSD subscription today are not necessarily all that
relevant. This is really more of a platform for when FSD beta goes into wide release and the
features and functionality become more accessible to more customers.
The second thing that I will note is that if you look at the pricing, the monthly pricing of FSD
subscription and then you compare that to the cost of either rolling FSD option into your lease or
your loan on a monthly basis the most economical way for customer to enjoy the features of full
self driving is through purchasing it upfront and enrolling into their financing and as a result of that
what we've seen in the data is it is not -- we're unable to detect a change in the upfront take rate
of FSD when people purchased cars. We have seen quite a bit of activity of folks curious to
experience what the software has to offer and subscribing to it and enjoying it to that route, but
again as I said at the beginning I think what we've seen so far on FSD subscription is not terribly
relevant. We'll see how that plays out in the future as we continue to release more features.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much and now let's go to analyst questions. I just wanted to remind everyone to
click on the raise hand button. If you want to ask a question. The next question comes from Pierrethink your mic is muted. Okay. While Pierre works on that let's go to the next analyst. The next
question comes from `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC from RBC. Joseph, we cannot hear you. Can you click unmute?
Okay, well the -- the team is working on that, let's just go back to set[ph] of questions. So the
next set of[ph] question is can Tesla allow for FSD to be transfered to another vehicle at a fee
something less than 10-K early adopters, are paying the price if they want to upgrade their
vehicle, you lose the value on the trade, the trade-in and now you have to buy in at the higher
cost.
A - Unidentified Speaker
I don't think that this is widely known, but (inaudible) doing the sentiment of what this question is
asking if you trade in your Tesla to Tesla there is a difference in price that we pay for a trade in
that has FSD compared to one that doesn't. And so there is that premium that we pay to
repurchase the FSD that money can then be applied towards the purchase of a new car. So I just -
- we hear this feedback quite a bit. We see it on social media. We see it in the forums et cetera
and so this already does exist. Not directly in the form here and we don't call it out explicitly in the
trade-in[ph] potentially that we have increased the price of your trade and as a result and
hopefully this clears this up because we do actually do that.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Okay. And the next question is Elon said that we get an update on cybertruck in November a year
ago but it hasn't happened and we know there are a lot of updates. Will you show off the new
and improved cybertruck?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Martin. We get a lot of questions on cybertruck. We've been busy detailing the
cybertruck to achieve the prototype version we shared with customers a while back. As you may
have seen recently on social media we've built a number of alphas and are currently testing those
to further mature the design and while those point out a few key additions like (inaudible) also a
number of smaller or less visible improvements, though the product is largely true to the initial
vision. We'll continue to work through the product and the beta stages that we're in now and look
to launch that later next year.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you very much. We just promoted Pierre (multiple speakers).
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Can you -- can you hear me, guys.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, we can hear you.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Amazing. I'm very impressed that you managed to figure those.
A - Unidentified SpeakerQ - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
I would (technical difficulty) anyway let me ask you my question, actually I'm very intrigued by what
you guys are doing on the insurance front and so you have now in the market in Texas and
insurance products, for which the premium varies as a function of the safety score of the driver
and so I'd love to hear you about that you must have some initial data points so that market
reaction, you know, what is the update and from there, can you tell us about how do you think
you're going to distribute[ph] that, is that going to go through your installed base very easily or is
it going to be like a heavy marketing push and then maybe tell us about your expansion plans,
what are the next geographies what's the timing, how fast is that business line likely to grow in
the next few years.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. Thank you, Pierre. I'm extremely passionate about our insurance product. We have a terrific
team here at Tesla of folks who have been spending a lot of time developing this and probably
listening to the call. So we're pretty excited so far Pierre. So I mean at the highest level here. We
entered the insurance market kind of unintentionally I would say. Our customers are coming to us
complaining that the price of traditional insurance was too high and it was reducing the
affordability of the Tesla and part of our journey here at Tesla is we want as many people as
possible to be able to afford our products. That's extremely important to achieving the mission of
the company.
And if you look at the price of insurance as a percentage of what somebody's monthly payment
is it's quite high and we spend extreme amounts of effort in manufacturing to take $5 of
BOM[ph] cost out here or $10 out somewhere else. If we can get $5, $10, $20, $30 dollars out on
a monthly payment you can calculate what that means in terms of reduction of the price of the
car. If you finance it and the leverage of improving insurance cost is huge in terms of affordability
and so that's kind of the context by which we stepped into this.
As we started to do more research essentially the tools by which the insurance is traditionally
calculated are optimized based upon the existing data, but the existing data is limited. So
therefore there is a focus on things like marital status or age or other attributes like that, accident
history is a good one et cetera. What essentially happens here is customers who are low risk and
don't actually file many claims and are overpaying on their insurance relative to their cost that
overpayment then goes to riskier customers who are essentially being subsidized. And as we
looked at this and we looked at the data, we thought this just doesn't seem like it's fair. At Tesla
because our cars are connected, because they are essentially computers on wheels there is
enormous amounts of data that we have available to us to be able to assess the attributes of a
driver who is operating that car and whether those attributes correlate with safety.
Because we do get a signal when a car has been in an accident. So we've been spending our
time looking at hundreds of different variables and also looking at billions of miles of driving
history and we've been able to find[ph] a model that is able to predict with decent accuracy the
probability of collision over a period of time. And the model is not perfect, the model is a function
of the data that we have available. That data set continues to grow. We continue to experiment
with new variables, but we do have a model that works pretty well so far. And from that model
being able to predict frequency of collision we can then align that against the price curves.
And we can have individualized pricing integrated into the car, integrated into the app, integrated
into that customers' experience where the feedback go[ph] back to the customer on how they're
driving after every drive. The attributes that they were successful on or unsuccessful on and thetips of things that they can do to improve their safety. So that's what we have developed. We
then included safety score as part of the FSD beta enrollment program where we have almost
150,000 cars currently using the safety score and I believe the latest data is over 100 million
miles of driving. So we've been able to go back and analyze that data and we've learned two
things coming from that.
The first is that the probability of collision for a customer using safety score versus not is 30%
lower, it's a pretty big difference. It means that the product is working and customers are
responding to it. The second thing that we've looked at, is what is the probability of collision
based upon actual data as a function of a driver safety score and that is aligning with our models,
most notably here in the top tier of safety compared to lower tiers there is multiple X[ph]
difference and probability of collision based upon actual data. So this is a very new and very
exciting frontier for us. I know that was long-winded but we spent a lot of time on this and we
have put a lot of thought into it.
Specifically with respect to the rollout, the insurance industry in the US is intensely regulated and
it's regulated on a state by state level. That means that we have acquired regulatory approvals
from each individual department of insurance at each individual state. Texas is the first state that
we launched in, I do want to thank the Texas insurance regulators here, you've been great to
work with. We have a roadmap of additional states we will launch the product in their states, as
we receive regulatory approvals and our goal is to be in every major market in which we have
cars[ph]. The -- we did a soft launch in Texas last week. Yeah, and what we're seeing an initial
take rate[ph] data is that, if you compare that to what we're seeing in California, we're off to a
good start here. So we're very excited about it. We're excited about individual risk-based pricing.
We're excited about the ability for folks to become safer and as a result, save money and it
feeds into our priority of the company of building the safest products in the world.
If I can add that, it's really exciting for the engineering team to the finance team taking on safety
(inaudible). Thanks for that guys.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Thank you, guys.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pierre do you have a follow-up question.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
No, I think I'm fine Zach. Thanks for taking the time. It's fascinating and very interesting (technical
difficulty).
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question comes from `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC from RBC.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC `
Thanks. Can you hear me.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Yeah, we can hear you.Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC `
Perfect. So, Zach as you noted, you hit low teens operating margins. That was your medium-term
target. You're there now despite the number of challenges and not full utilization, sort of the plan.
So how are you thinking about that target now and does it allow you to drive price down further
and[ph] lot more demand invest in other initiatives or does that target need to change and then
longer term, do you have an aspirational gross margin target as the mix of software and
hardware changes?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, we have achieved. We've actually exceeded our long-term guidance on our operating
margin target. So we're very pleased to see that And as we look out over the next quarter and
the next year there's a number of puts and takes financially for the company. The launch of Austin
and Berlin, will have ramp inefficiencies there for some period of time until we get those factories
up and running and so that's likely to put some downward pressure on our margins as those
factories ramp. Our goals are to ramp those as quickly as possible. But, as Drew mentioned
earlier, there are number of unknown unknowns that we'll need to work through.
We are kind of also in this uncertain environment with respect to cost structure, so we are seeing
cost increase on the commodity side. We're getting feedback from our suppliers as we are
seeing ourselves, the impact of labor shortage and then logistics and expedite cost just continue
to be a part of our story here and it's uncertain how that will unfold. It's our hope that these things
stabilize exactly when that happens is difficult to predict and we have been adjusting pricing in
line with those changes in cost and so we'll see how that unfolds over the course of the next year.
So it's difficult on gross margin to say where that will go for those reasons.
With respect to operating margin we've been very focused as a company on managing our
overhead expenses and operating expenses and operating expenses as a percentage of
revenue has been declining and I expect that trend to continue to happen, and I think the net of
all of this is hopefully that we continue to make progress on operating margin over the next four
or five quarters. As we think can afford[ph] the business up until this point, it's largely been a
hardware automotive business with a little bit of software on top of that. As full self driving
matures as take rates increase if we are to raise pricing on that there is considerable upside both
on gross margins and operating margin as that comes delayed.
As the business starts to become more of a mix of hardware-based company and a software-
based company. So we feel optimistic about the journey very optimistic about the journey. As we
look over into the long-term. Just a little bit difficult over the next four to five quarters, we'll
continue to update on earnings calls as we learn more information. There's just a lot of
uncertainty in the world right now.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Joe. Do you have a follow-up question.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC `
Yeah. The second question is just you mentioned LFP[ph] globally for standard range models my
understanding is that all comes from China is that the continued go forward plan or do you want
(technical difficulty) LFP abilities and other factors[ph] around the world.
A - Unidentified SpeakerYeah, certainly our goal is to localize all key parts of the vehicles on the continent, at least the
continent, if not closer to where the vehicles are produced. So that is our goal and we're working
with internally and with our suppliers to accomplish that goal and not just at the end assembly
level but as far (inaudible) as possible.
Operator
Thank you very much. And the next question comes from `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Colin
are you able to unmute? Okay. While we're waiting for that let's go.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Oh, sorry. Do you hear me now.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Sorry, yes, we can hear you now. Perfect
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Okay. Yeah, I was just actually kind of following up on the question before. You mentioned
commodities are rising and when I look at a lot of the key raw materials in the battery cobalt,
nickel, lithium all up 40% and I know you guys have done a good job of getting long-term
contracts and sort of mitigate that impact, I mean have you seen so far any impact from that
spike and if not I mean, any sense of when that raw material headwind might actually show up or
has shown up.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, we have seen an impact. Our primary exposure right now is around nickel and aluminum.
Nickel in the cell, aluminum in non-cell and we have a mixture of contracts with various suppliers
and some materials we contract directly and we have full exposure to price fluctuations. We do
have a number of long-term commitments and long-term contracts in place. We also have
contracts where there is some amount of cost sharing based upon the movement of the indexes
and as these have been moving some of those costs have been flown through to us. It's not a
substantial amount of cost, but it's not small. As we look towards the next year I certainly hope it
doesn't play out as way but it's possible that we continue to see more of cost headwind as a
result of these movements. It's difficult to say precisely but the volatility and the increases are so
substantial and there are certain suppliers that maybe up to a certain point have been absorbing
some of the increase and as contracts expire there where we have to renew and extend them
we'll have to return to negotiations.
And so what we have to do as a company and what we are intensely focused on is we need to
be continuing to drive down the cost of our products which we have been doing and we have to
overcome cost increases that are outside of our control. So whether that's resourcing
components or redesigning components or finding ways to be more efficient in manufacturing
we have no choice but to continue on that path and be even more aggressive in the light of the
macroeconomics here.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
And diversification, right. It doesn't need to be nickel or cobalt or I mean there's always another
option.Operator
Thank you. Colin, do you have a follow-up question. Okay. Let's go to the next one. The next
question comes from `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer from Oppenheimer.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Hey guys, can you hear me okay?
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Yeah, we can hear you
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Perfect. Can you talk a little bit about your strategy around anode materials and your ability to
leverage that into reduction on the cathode side performance from (technical difficulty).
A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure. I don't know that I'm going to get into too many specific's but I guess first one thing I would
say is unlike the commodities discussion we just had like the anode materials are not really in the
same situation just in terms of what the considering components are so there is less of focus on
like rapidly changing them one way or the other because they're generally stable commodities.
There isn't exactly like a tit for tat or like get a better anode useless cathode like that there is a
fundamental ratio that you need to maintain for the cell to function. So I guess zooming out the
primary focus on the anode side that we have is just ensuring that it doesn't in any way that we
were able to continue to reduce the cost of the anode without impeding on the long-term cycle -
- cyclability of the product. It can also help with energy density as you like sort of improve the
energy density of the anode and improve the energy density of the cell not directly one to one,
because you have to pack more cathode in as the anode gets better and that gets a focus as
well but the trade space is just sort of cycling versus day one cost.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
That's super helpful. And then just around the vehicle pricing strategy obviously there is a lot of
flexibility there for some customers or not. Can you just talk a little bit about the process around
vehicle pricing and how quickly you expect to change that and adjust as you see some of these
commodity prices flow through the cost structure and you look at (technical difficulty) dynamics
for vehicles.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. Pricing has been a really difficult thing for us over the last couple of quarters and part of the
-- part of the challenge is the great thing that we're seeing in the space right now is there
appears to just be quite a profound awakening of the desirability for electric vehicles and I mean
totally frank it's caught us a little bit off guard and that kind of awakening and change in consumer
sentiment, I'm sure there's lots of reasons that go into it. But folks want to buy an electric car and
folks want one of our Tesla right now, it's very exciting for us.
At the same time we have installed capacity to build more cars, but more constrained by a
number of dynamics as we've talked about in great detail and we are putting an extreme effort
to build as many cars as we possibly can. It's hard to overstate how extremely efforts are. It'sthe demand that we're receiving but the net-net of all of this is that we're not able to increase
production capacity fast enough so that at the same time we are seeing macro economics, cost
impacts on our structure as we've discussed previously on the call.
So we're trying to think through, if somebody orders a car now it will -- it could be delivered in
some cases and depending upon the car in which factory could be couple of months, could be a
couple of quarters and the timing in which we build that car will be just before that car gets
delivered and what the world look like at that point and so we're trying to think through how the
cost structure is evolving, has pricing you need to change with that, what are the supply dynamics
in the space. The other thing that I'll just note on pricing is that company has changed pricing all
the time. The difference is that when Tesla changes pricing it's extremely transparent where
that's not always the case otherwise and sometimes our pricing will increase sometimes our
pricing will reduce sometimes to the public our pricing changes may not seem to make logical
sense, but there is a strategy that we work behind the scenes as we're balancing supply and
demand as we're also trying to balance various shortages on parts as we're trying to manage
wait times. All of that goes into the optimization here.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you very much. The next question is from `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Brian please
go ahead and you can unmute
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Tesla team.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah, we can hear you.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah, I know. By the way great to hear. There is a team at Tesla, not just a one person show. I
want to drill down a bit more on FSD. In December of 2020 in a business insider interview in
Germany your leaders said that he expected level five autonomy by December within a year so
that would be now. Yet we look at the progress in FSD and some of the issues you see on
YouTube and it looks very much like a Level two, two plus system that requires vigilances in-fact
your disclaimer side. So I guess three questions kind of one, what is the timetable to get to level
four at least capability we can be able to regulatory stuff later and two, what is the criteria for
Zach for you to release revenue -- deferred revenue around FSD and it's having a Level two
system that needs monitoring enough to release that deferred revenue and then three, maybe
you could talk a little bit more about how you plan to work with the new -- with the folks who
appear to be asking some questions they have three request out to you regarding information
around the level two around new capabilities (inaudible).
A - Unidentified Speaker
There are lot of things, we will take them in order. It's difficult to be specific on the timelines. The
(inaudible) is working extremely hard iterating on every version. We are being extremely
transparent through the release of this to public customers who are posting information online.
So when you're using for self-driving and you're going through the iterations you can feel the
progress and for those who don't have it in their cars social media is excellent getting a sense forhow that's progressing and the team is moving quickly with every iteration, with every update and
they're working very hard on that.
On your second question about the criteria to release deferred revenue the way that this works
is we have made certain commitments as to what this product can offer at the time that a
customer has purchased that. And so what we have to assess is we made those commitments
and is the software widely available to folks that we've made those commitments to within a
certain geography and given that FSD is still currently in the beta phase, it's invitation-only and it's
limited. We have not deemed that to be appropriate for recognition of deferred revenue and will
continue to evolve this, will continue to monitor it within the finance team to see when we get to
the milestones in which we're comfortable releasing.
On the (inaudible) question, Lars do you want to take that.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President of Vehicle Engineering
Sure, I mean as I said earlier, we always cooperate fully with nets[ph] and other regulatory bodies
in any sort of investigation they may have particularly related to ADAS systems when they came
out with withstanding general order in July. We were quick to respond to that and one of the first
and only company is capable of actually meeting the needs of that report. We continue to send
that information through them as required weekly as sales[ph] occur and with the additional
investigations as I said with great sincerity and we'll work through them one by one. To make sure
that all the facts come out and is well informed about our strategies for both active safety in this
case, but also passive safety.
As you guys may know, we released updates to our (inaudible) last week to Model Y using our
fleet data. We will work closely on[ph] that and they were fully in the loop before we did it. So I
think these kinds of things will continue to happen in the new regulatory space as Zach discussed
as we move towards a software-based vehicle and we were happy to be a part of that journey
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question comes from (inaudible).
Q - Unidentified Participant
Two[ph] very good quarter. I had two quick questions. So first is regarding the two upcoming
factories in Berlin and Austin, who are the two factories, different from each other. Maybe in the
layout design assembly lines. And the second question is related to Cybertruck, who is the supply
looking at, if you look at the exoskeletons steel is the supply for that material sufficient for
immediate ramp up, I'll say, in '23, '24 time for Cybertruck. That's all from me.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, So obviously, as we've noted in the past, we developed our own stainless steel grade for
the exteriors cybertruck to meet both the durability corrosion requirements -- required for an
automotive world[ph] with this raw material and others as Joe mentioned, we continue to look at
multiple sources and we have made some early sourcing decisions in that, but I think we'll keep
that one internal and we've already began the first (inaudible) different from any other material,
just about how hard the rollers are to get to that hardest level and just like every manufacturing
process we put in for every new vehicle will work with our suppliers and vendors to make sure
those timelines and supply meet the need and demand of our customers.And on the differences between Austin and Berlin. There are some. They are largely associated
with the different sort of building architectural choices that happened to occur in collaboration
with local codes and other sort of governing requirement that drives the differences in the
architecture between the locations. In general they are like we're trying to progress the
manufacturing system as a system and make sort of logical like path to find improvements from
factory to factory and in some cases there was an improvement identified between like decisions
for one Austin, Berlin, or vice versa. And so there might be a slightly newer iteration of one part
of the factory in one place than the other but it's all part of like a path forward in the factory that
builds machine, the machine that builds machine, sorry.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And the last question comes from `Jed Dorsheimer, Analyst, Canaccord from Canaccord.
Q - `Jed Dorsheimer, Analyst, Canaccord `
Can you hear me.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we can hear you.
Q - `Jed Dorsheimer, Analyst, Canaccord `
Thanks for taking my question. So, Brandenburg I'm just wondering, Zach if you could estimate
the carry costs from a margin perspective. All right. I guess in two parts. So when do you expect
do you still expect production coming on in '21. So a couple of months left in December and how
do you see that margin impact as a function of the carry cost and I do have a follow-up question.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So it remains our target in both Austin and Berlin to be able to build our first production
curves before the end of the year. We've talked about this a bit. The unknown unknowns, new
factories, new vehicle designs, new technologies, new locations, new teams. So there is quite an
execution journey ahead of us. But that remains our target and all of our plans are oriented
around that. We should not expect for us to deliver cars by the end of 2021 from these factories,
even if we do produce some, so Homologation regulatory reasons. And we'll want to make sure
that we build up some number of cars that we're confident in the quality and the customer
experience around them.
The second thing that I'll say and I mentioned some opening remarks is because of the newness
here it's extremely difficult for us to be precise in what the ramp will look like. And it's possible
things -- the stars align and things move quickly as possible that we're spending the bulk of next
year, working on ramping these factories and it's just very hard to say. And we'll continue to
update you all three of these calls and through other forms. As to how that impacts our margins
that is also difficult because that is a function of the ramp which is uncertain. So the benefit here
which is different in the ramp of these factories, compared to other factories is if you think about
the percentage of our total cost structure in any given quarter that is associated with new ramps.
We have the Fremont factory that's running, generating stable and growing margins there. The
same is also true in Shanghai. So I expect we'll see some amount of headwind on margin from
these ramps. It's just entirely dependent on how quickly we're able to ramp and what
uncertainties come up during the process.Q - `Jed Dorsheimer, Analyst, Canaccord `
Sure. So on a margin per car, but I would suspect, though if your carry cost is full rate now on that
as you start producing vehicles. It's going to be a margin lift from where you're at right now.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
We are carrying some amount of cost associated with the factories today and so the incremental
cost associated turning the factories. It's not 100% of the factory, if that's what you're getting out
in your question.
Q - `Jed Dorsheimer, Analyst, Canaccord `
Yeah, that's what I was getting at.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. We also actually saw very similar dynamic to this when we are launching Model S earlier in
the year. So when a product starts launching and then cost of goods sold starts to activate
depreciation starts to activate, there is a bit of a movement in the P&L as to where that cost
resides. So, assuming to some extent Brandenburg and Austin costs are already flowing through
our P&L, but we still need to continue staffing and ramping and incurring all the operating costs
associated with the factory that we're not spending right now.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations `
Fantastic, thank you very much everyone for all your questions and we'll see you again in the
three months. Thank you very much, and goodbye.