Q3 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen to AstraZeneca's Year-to-Date and Q3 Results 2021
Conference Call and Webcast, for investors and analysts. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd
like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions
of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call, may
make forward-looking statements with respect to the operations and financial performance of
AstraZeneca. Although, we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions by
their very nature. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and may be
influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or
implied by these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made on this call
reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes
no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the slide deck that accompanies this conference call and
webcast. (Operator Instructions)
And with that, I will now hand you over to the company.
`Chris Sheldon, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm `Chris Sheldon, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations at
AstraZeneca. I'm pleased to welcome you to AstraZeneca's third quarter 2021 conference call. All
materials presented today are available on our website. Slide 2 has the usual Safe Harbor
statements. We will be making comments on our performance using constant exchange rates or
CER core financial numbers and other non-GAAP measures including total revenue, excluding the
COVID-19 vaccine for pandemic use, as well as the impact of the pandemic vaccine on EPS. A
non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliation is contained within the results. Numbers used are in million US
dollars and for the first nine months of 2021, unless otherwise stated.
Please advance to Slide 3. This slide shows today's speakers from our senior executive team. In a
moment, I'll hand over to our CEO, `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director to begin. Please turn to Slide 4. Following our
prepared remarks will open the line for questions. We'll ask that you limit yourself to one question
and one follow-up question to give a fair opportunity to participate in Q&A during the allotted
time. (Operator Instructions)
Please advance to Slide 5. And with that, please Pascal over to you.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Chris and hello, everyone. The third quarter of 2021 was an important milestone for
our company with the addition of our Alexion colleagues. Alexion has been a remarkable
diversified revenues portfolio with significant growth opportunity and a great part of this success
is due to the talented team globally and very much -- I very much look forward to seeing all we
can accomplish together. With the inclusion of Alexion from the 21st of July, we saw total revenue
for the year-to-date of over $25 billion, an increase of 28%.
If you move to Slide 6, if you don't mind. Yes, thank you. The revenues excluding the COVID-19
vaccine for pandemic use grew at 17%. The breadth of our now expanded portfolio allowed us to
continue to deliver on our growth ambition in the face of ongoing industry-wide pressures related
to effects of COVID-19, which is still having an impact on patients visiting doctors or going to
hospitals. Total revenue in the quarter came very close to $10 billion, $9.9 billion precisely, a
remarkable milestone which of course was aided by our COVID-19 vaccine sales. But still
excluding the vaccine we experienced tremendous growth. The core EPS of $3.59 is up 23% over
prior year. And excluding the vaccine, the growth is 17% reflecting continued leverage in our
business. As a reminder, our vaccine has been supplied at no profit, and therefore the vaccine
sales year-to-date there was no profit. Operating expenses growth in the quarter reflect in part
the cost associated with the vaccine, the integration of Alexion, and most importantly, our
continued investment in our strategy to stay in an industry-leading pipeline and support our
recent launches.
We will now progressively transition our vaccine to a for-profit approach, but our price will ensure
the vaccine is affordable for low and middle income countries, and therefore, the profit will
remain limited. We've updated our full year revenue guidance to reflect the contribution of our
COVID-19 medicines in the fourth quarter. The great majority of our COVID-19 sales in Q4 will
remain pandemic sales at no profit, therefore the Q4 profit arising from our vaccine sales will
remain quite limited and will be offset by the investment -- the limited investments in our long-acting antibody combination AZD7442, there's a limited investment that we need to do ourselves
that is not covered by contracts we have with government. But essentially, the limited profit from
the vaccine is offset by limited cost of the AZD7442 development and overall, the COVID
medicines will not contribute to profit in 2021. So it's important to remember that the EPS
guidance that we gave, reflects the performance of the underlying business, being the so-called
old AZ plus Alexion. So it's a new AZ with Alexion, but excluding the COVID assets. Aradhana will
provide additional detail on this important updates later in the presentation.
All of our business area franchises are doing well. We demonstrated broad-based double-digit
growth with Oncology growing at 16% and in BioPharmaceuticals, CVRM going at 10%, respiratory
and immunology at 12%. For rare disease, the total revenue was $1.3 billion with year-to-date
growth not meaningful due to limited reporting period, but in line with our expectations and for
Q3, it's important to remember, we didn't have a full Q3 as far as Alexion is concerned, so we
didn't have the full extent of sales, but also not the full extent of R&D spend and other costs.
We're committed to following the science and news flow -- pipeline news flow in the quarter has
been extraordinary really with eight positive late-stage readouts across seven medicines with the
potential to change the standard of care in multiple diseases.
So, if you turn to Slide 7, the performance in the field was strong across our diversified disease
areas as well as across geographies. If you look specifically at the emerging markets region,
growth was 10% year-to-date, excluding the contribution of the COVID-19 vaccine. China grew by
2% in the quarter due to price and volume pressures as well as stock compensations to
distributors related to VBP and NRDL negotiations. The volume of key medicines is growing very
strongly in China, but it's not free compensating for past pressures. It is clear that China is slowing
down, but it will a remain very important market for us. And over the next few years, we expect to
continue growing with, of course a valuable growth rate, depending on the year, but still a very
important market that will contribute greatly to our company. And the slower growth in China was
compensated by the emerging markets that grew 30% in the quarter. So, overall the emerging
markets, including China, grew by 12% in the quarter, again, excluding COVID-19 vaccine which
reflects the strength of our global footprint. We will provide additional commentary on China
performance later in the presentation.
So, please move to Slide 8. So, if we look at the late stage pipeline delivery, we'd like to highlight
a few regulatory approvals for three medicines, Farxiga for CKD in the EU and Japan, Saphnelo
for SLE in the U.S. and Japan and Ultomiris in the EU for children and adolescents with PNH. So we
await regulatory decisions with great excitement for AZD7442, our long-acting antibody, in
COVID-19 prophylaxis and also in oncology for HER2, in second line HER2 positive breast cancer,
and we are of course in the process of discussing potential orders for (inaudible) lab with
countries around the world.
So if you move to Slide 9, I will now hand over to `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director, our new CFO, who joins us from
Alexion where she was the CFO. For those of you who have not met Aradhana, I know you'll be
as impressed as I am with her knowledge of the industry, her sense of the business and her
passion for our mission to help patients and follow the science. Again, a warm welcome to
Aradhana and Alexion colleagues. Over to you, Aradhana.
`Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Pascal. I will be covering our financial performance for the third quarter and year-to-
date 2021. Please turn to Slide 10. Total revenue grew by 28% year-to-date and by 48% in the
third quarter. This includes our COVID-19 vaccine. Excluding the vaccine, total revenue grew by
17% year-to-date and by 32% in the third quarter with strong performance across our key diseaseareas. Our reported EPS in the third quarter was negative at $1.10, impacted by an impairment
charge of $1.2 billion, following a strategic decision to discontinue the development of verinurad
from the acquisition of Ardea in 2012. Our reported numbers are also impacted by a number of
adjustments, following the consolidation of Alexion. One of the main adjustments is an inventory
where previously Alexion held visit cost, whereas now it is reported at fair value. As a result, cost
of sales for the group was inflated by $1 billion charge related to the unwind of the inventory fair
value uplift. On a reported basis, we expect the cost of sales to continue to be high for the next
18 months or so, until this inventory is sold. We also incurred higher amortization charges this
quarter as we start amortizing the Alexion medicines over their useful economic lives. These
changes do not have an impact on our core results.
Please turn to the core P&L on Slide 11. The core gross margin was 74.1% year-to-date driven by
the vaccine. Excluding the vaccine, we saw a small decline in gross margin in line with our previous
comments on increased pricing pressure in China and profit sharing arrangements on several
successful medicines. Core operating expenses increased 20% with year-on-year comparisons
impacted by the addition of Alexion, from 21st of July. Excluding the COVID-19 vaccine, core
operating expenses increased by mid-teens percentage. Higher R&D costs are also reflected --
reflective of pipeline success in the last quarter with numerous successful late-stage readout as
well as our substantial investment in R&D for our long-acting COVID-19 antibody combination
beyond the level of government funding.
The increase in SG&A costs reflect the addition of Alexion, increased investment in new launches,
including Saphnelo in lupus and Farxiga in CKD as well as significant pre-launch investment
following successful Phase 3 data for Enhertu, Lynparza, tezepelumab and PT027. From a year-on-
year comparison basis, you may recall that the SG&A cost in third quarter 2020 declined 1%
compared to 2019, because of COVID related lockdowns and cost reductions in areas such as
T&E. This also skews the SG&A growth comparison. Core earnings per share of $3.59 includes a
negative impact of $0.03 from the vaccine with a $0.01 benefit in the third quarter.
Now turning to Slide 12. In the quarter, we saw further improvement in our core operating profit
mix and core operating profit increased quarter-on-quarter benefiting from the inclusion of
Alexion, despite lower other operating income. We're updating our 2021 guidance to provide
further details around the contribution of our COVID-19 medicines. While we continue to expect
low 20s percentage increase in total revenue, excluding the contribution from the COVID-19
vaccine, in line with our prior guidance, we now expect total revenues to increase by mid-to-high
20s percentage inclusive of fourth quarter vaccine sales. We anticipate vaccine sales in the fourth
quarter to be a blend of our original agreements, and new commercial Vaxzevria contract, but
with the vast majority coming from pandemic agreements. In line with prior years, we expect a
step-up in total revenue in the fourth quarter. Any net profit from commercial vaccine contract in
the fourth quarter is expected to be modest and to offset continued investment in R&D and
supporting activities, such as, pharmacovigilance for our COVID-19 medicines, including the long-
acting antibody, resulting in no material EPS contribution from these medicines in 2021. We still
expect core earnings per share to be between $5.05 and $5.40 at constant exchange rate for
2021 in line with our prior guidance.
Please turn to Slide 13. Net debt increased to $24.7 billion following the completion of the Alexion
transaction. That leaves our current net debt to EBITDA ratio at around. 3.1x. Our EBITDA is,
however, reduced by the $1 billion unwind of the Alexion inventory fair value adjustment discussed
previously. Excluding this non-cash impact, our net debt to EBITDA ratio would reduce about 2.7x.
As previously communicated, we're committed to rapidly reducing our debt. Our capital allocation
priorities remain unchanged. In no specific order, we aim to maintain a strong investment gradeenhancing business development opportunities, and remain committed to our progressive
dividend policy, defined as stable or increasing dividend.
I will now hand over to Dave Frederickson.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Thank you and welcome, Aradhana. Slide 14, please. So we're pleased to report that our
oncology total revenue grew 16%, a good performance showing the momentum of new launches
and the diversity of our portfolio in the face of continued headwinds from COVID-19. With that
said, diagnosis rates continue to improve and are now around 5% to 10% below pre-COVID
levels. The quarter included strong performances from Calquence and in HER2, solid delivery
from Lynparza and Imfinzi and on Tagrisso, the year-to-date showed growth. However, sequential
sales for the quarter were slightly down due to China dynamics, which I'll explain shortly.
So, let's turn to Slide 15 and go through some of the specifics. In the U.S., underlying volume
demand for Tagrisso continues to grow at low single digit rates with rising first-line duration of
treatment and increasing adjuvant use driving sales, partially offset by lower second line use and
the pandemic impact on diagnosis and testing. More specifically, in adjuvant use, we're pleased
with the good progress we've been making in moving physician practice. However, it takes time
for the relatively small number of new starts in a setting that is 20% to 25% of the size of the first-
line metastatic market to move the dial on overall prescriptions. In emerging markets, growth in
the year-to-date was 1%. Within that, we've seen strong growth in EM outside China, as Tagrisso
gained reimbursement in more markets. In China, the strong volume growth we are seeing in the
first-line and second-line is still catching up with the price discount for NRDL inclusion in March.
Following the NRDL change, in the second quarter, we saw inventory build and a bolus due to
first-generation TKI switches in the front line. In the third quarter, we are down sequentially as
those factors were not at play. We're confident we're moving the needle in China in frontline and
maintaining robust share in second line. We expect continued volume growth to offset the cut in
price that we took in the coming months and for Tagrisso to resume top-line growth in China, at
that point.
Turning to our immune-oncology franchise, Imfinzi grew by 17% year-to-date. We're very pleased
that we continue to grow Imfinzi over the last several quarters, despite the pandemic solidifying
and growing PACIFIC and driving successful, launches of CASPIAN in the face of competition. All
of that sets a great foundation for launches in some of the potential new indications that Susan
will speak about in a few moments.
Please turn to Slide 16. Lynparza continued to deliver strong growth across tumor types and
territories increasing product sales by 31% to $1.7 billion in the first nine months of the year.
Lynparza remains the class-leading PARP inhibitor across four tumor types. U.S. sales were up 26%
driven by greater use in ovarian, prostate, and adjuvant breast cancer, and we were pleased to
see the NCCN guidelines updated to include OlympiA during Q3. Europe and established Rest of
World showed good growth in ovarian and prostate cancer, supported by continued growth in
HRD testing. China benefited from strong volume growth due to the expanded ovarian cancer
indication in the NRDL from March, offset by the associated price cut as well as similar albeit
smaller inventory facing headwinds in Q3 as seen with Tagrisso.
Please turn to Slide 17. Calquence continues to make strong progress towards blockbuster status,
driven by a robust share performance in the U.S. in chronic lymphocytic leukemia where it's
reached 52% new patient share. Calquence has continued to show good momentum in EuropeMoving on to Enhertu, the year-to-date saw good momentum in third line breast and second line
gastric cancer. That success came against a backdrop of new clinical data that establishes
tremendous opportunities for Enhertu in the years to come. Susan will talk to the data from
DESTINY-Breast03 in a moment and won't steal her thunder, but with Enhertu, now the
established leader and third line HER2 positive breast cancer, we have the critical platform to
really drive changes in the standards of care in second line, once these data get approved.
I'll now hand over to Susan to discuss our R&D progress.
`Susan Mary Galbraith, Executive Vice President of Oncology Research & Development `
Thank you, Dave. Please turn to Slide 18. I want to take a minute to recount the outstanding
results from DESTINY-Breast03 trial that was presented at ESMO. We saw a highly clinically
meaningful and statistically significant improvement in progression-free survival compared to
trastuzumab DM1 as well as a trend in overall survival at this very immature analysis. Enhertu truly
has the capacity to change the standard-of-care by demonstrating superior benefit over
trastuzumab DM1 in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in the second-line. As a
result, we were pleased to see the recent ESMO guideline update adding Enhertu as the new
standard-of-care in this setting. No new safety concerns were identified, and importantly, no
Grade 4 or 5 treatment-related interstitial lung disease events were observed. This is very
encouraging for the potential use of Enhertu in earlier lines of therapy.
We also saw Enhertu granted breakthrough therapy designation status by the FDA on the back of
the DESTINY-Breast03 studies, a real testament to the importance and impact these data will
have on patient outcomes. During the period, Lynparza became the first PARP inhibitor to
generate positive data in first line metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in combination
with abiraterone in an all-comers population. Prostate cancer is the second most common and the
fifth leading cause of cancer death in men globally, a new chemotherapy free options are
desperately needed.
Please turn to slide, 19. Gastrointestinal cancers such as liver cancer are common and have seen
limited innovation when it comes to improving clinical outcomes for patients. Recently, we
reported back to back positive readouts for our immune-oncology franchise with HIMALAYA in
hepatocellular carcinoma and TOPAZ-1 in advanced biliary tract cancer. Both indications have a
large unmet need as recognized by their U.S. orphan drug designations. These data open up the
potential for Imfinzi and tremelimumab in a broader array of settings and brings us closer to our
goal to improve long-term survival for patients with different gastrointestinal cancers.
In HIMALAYA, a single high priming dose of tremelimumab added to Imfinzi, known as the STRIDE
regimen, resulted in a clinically meaningful improvement in overall survival when compared to the
current standard of care. This regimen was selected after careful analysis of clinical and
biomarker data from various trials with different tremelimumab dosing schedules. In the TOPAZ-1
trial at a planned interim analysis, Imfinzi when used in combination with standard of care
chemotherapy of gemcitabine plus cisplatin, demonstrated an improvement in overall survival in
patients versus chemotherapy alone. This is the first major global treatment breakthrough in first-
line advanced biliary-tract cancer in over a decade. Our development plan for Imfinzi in liver
cancer does not stop here as we eagerly await results from the EMERALD-1 trial which will
evaluate the use of Imfinzi in patients with local regional hepatocellular cancer, who are not
amenable to curative therapy. This is in line with our strategy to move into treating earlier stages
of disease. EMERALD-1 will read out in the second half of next year.
Please turn to Slide 20. And now what's next? We have multiple Phase 3 trial starting across ourtrial in muscle invasive bladder cancer for Imfinzi. We'll also start a new trial for Enhertu called
DESTINY-Lung04 along with TROPION-Breast01 for datopotamab deruxtecan with our
collaborators Daiichi Sankyo. We also have two new bispecifics to have entered Phase 1 trials in
solid tumors, AZD2936 which is a PD-1 TIGIT bispecific, as well as AZD7789, a PD/1 TIM3
bispecific. Both of these have the potential to become next generation immuno-oncology
therapies. I look forward to updating you on the progress of these and other programs soon.
I'm now going to hand over to Ruud to take you through the Biopharmaceuticals and emerging
market performance in the period. Please turn to Slide 21.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President of BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you, Susan. Please turn to Slide 22. In CVRM total revenue was up 10% to $6 billion, with the
vast majority of growth coming from Farxiga's continued strong performance. Farxiga grew 51%
and remains the largest single contributor to AstraZeneca's growth. Farxiga also continued its
remarkable progress as the fastest growing SGLT2 inhibitors globally making gains in volume
market share, boosted by successful, launches in heart failure, and chronic kidney disease.
Following the results of the DAPA-HF trial, we were pleased to see the European Society of
Cardiology guidelines updated to include Farxiga as first-line treatment for heart failure patients,
with reduced ejection fraction. Additionally, ESC guidelines now also recommend novel potassium
binders such as Lokelma to treat hyperkalemia, which is great news for patients. Lokelma
revenues more than doubled to $122 million. In the United States, Lokelma reinforced its
leadership in the branded potassium binder market, reaching 58% share of prescriptions and in
Japan its market share increased to 41%.
Please move to Slide 23. Turning to respiratory and immunology, total revenue was $4.5 billion
with a growth rate of 12%. The year-on-year growth benefited from the effects of COVID-19 on
last year's Pulmicort sales. Fasenra delivered product sales of $901 million, up 32% and is the
leading respiratory biologic prescribed for eosinophilic asthma, globally. Fasenra's performance
has been driven by sustained growth in new-to-brand patient starts in both the U.S. and the EU.
Recently, Fasenra was granted orphan drug designations in eosinophilic gastroenteritis and
eosinophilic gastritis and the Fast-Track designation for the treatment of EG with or without EGE
by the USFDA. Breztri, with product sales of $130 million continued its global launch trajectory
rapidly gaining market share in the fast-growing triple fixed dose combination class. Breztri is now
approved in 36 countries, including China, where we are seeing patient volume increase
following NRDL inclusion earlier this year. Symbicort sales were $2 billion, a slight decrease of 3%
against a tough comparison from COVID-19 related stock last year. Symbicort remains the
number one ICS/LABA globally and as of today received 42 approvals worldwide for its use as a
rescue therapy for asthma.
Please turn to Slide 24. Now on to the emerging markets, excluding revenue from the COVID-19
vaccine, total revenue grew 10% to $7.5 billion. Growth in China for the period was 8% and growth
for the emerging markets ex-China was 14%. Tagrisso grew 1% in the emerging markets,
reflecting the impact of the inventory phasing in China, which Dave described earlier. Farxiga has
had remarkable growth of 74% in the period as it continues to benefit from increased patient
access in China, following NRDL inclusion last year as well as broader access across other markets
in the region. Pulmicort in China experienced some recovery from the impact of COVID-19. This
comes ahead of the anticipated impact of its inclusion into the VBP program in October. Outside
of China, we saw broad-based growth across all regions. Excluding the impact of the COVID-19
vaccine, total revenue growth increased by 9% in Asia-Pacific, 12% in the Middle East and Africa,
28% in Latin America and 15% in Russia.I will now hand over to Mene to cover the R&D advancements in the periods.
`Menelas Pangalos, EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D and Member of External Sustainability `
Thank you, Ruud. Please turn to Slide 25. Our respiratory and immunology portfolio continues to
deliver and in August, Saphnelo or anifrolumab was approved to treat moderate to severe
systemic lupus erythematosus in the U.S. and in Japan. In Europe, an ad-hoc expert group
meeting has been scheduled where we look forward to discussing the clinical data. This quarter,
we also announced positive high level results for the MANDALA and DENALI trials for PT027, our
fixed dose combination of albuterol and budesonide. And we anticipate regulatory submissions
to be completed in the first half of next year. Also in the quarter, tezepelumab was granted
priority review for the treatment of asthma, accelerating the review timelines of this much
needed treatment option. And tezepelumab also received orphan drug designation for the
treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis.
Please turn to Slide 26. We continue to see accumulating real world evidence that shows the
enormous contribution our COVID-19 vaccine Vaxzevria has made in preventing hundreds of
thousands of hospital admissions and deaths and we were really proud to be one of the
recipients of the pre-Galien Roy Vagelos Pro Bono Humanum Award for the development of our
COVID-19 vaccine.
Turning to AZD7442 which will be known as Evusheld, we announced positive results from both
the PROVENT prophylaxis study and the TACKLE Phase III trials, which is a treatment study and
AZD7442 is the only long-acting antibody combination that has demonstrated the ability to both
prevent and treat COVID-19 disease. In prophylaxis, there is a significant unmet medical need to
protect vulnerable populations who have been inadequate response to vaccines such as those
who are immune-compromised by disease or their therapy. And AZD7442 is a convenient
intramuscular injection and has the potential to protect these individuals for up to 12 months. We
anticipate emergency use authorization in the U.S. towards the end of the year and have active
review processes across Europe and the UK. We recently presented data from the MELODY and
MEDLEY trials for nirsevimab which showed it is a highly effective at reducing medically attended
lower respiratory tract infections and has a similar safety profile to Synagis. Regulatory
submissions for nirsevimab are expected to complete in the first half of next year.
And finally taking a look at what's next, if we turn to Slide 27, please. This quarter we saw results
for cotadutide our GLP-1 glucagon co-agonist for the treatment of NASH and diabetic kidney
disease which we presented in due course, as well as Phase 2 data for AZD8233, our PCSK9
inhibitor for dyslipidaemia. We also initiated Phase 2 trials for AZD4604 our inhaled JAK inhibitor
for the treatment of asthma.
Please go to Slide 28, as I now hand over to Marc to cover rare diseases.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion `
Thank you, Mene. I'm happy to join you today in my new role as Chief Executive Officer of
Alexion. I'm excited to be part of Alexion's next chapter with AstraZeneca. To recap Pascal's
earlier comments, I want to thank all of the Alexion employees across the globe for their
continued dedication to the patients we serve. Since it is AstraZeneca's first quarter with Alexion,
I wanted to briefly provide an overview of the business to have more of you become acquainted
with rare disease.
Please turn to Slide 29. The combination of AstraZeneca and Alexion presents a unique
opportunity to accelerate AstraZeneca's strategic and financial developments. Alexion's fiveapproved medicine for the treatment of over seven rare and devastating diseases, including the
leading C5 franchise comprise of Soliris and Ultomiris. Alexion's strong commercial and financial
track record achieving best-in-class conversion to Ultomiris in less than 18 months from launch and
delivering over $6 billion in total revenue in 2020, representing 21% growth from prior year. This
performance relates to the period before the merger with AstraZeneca. On the R&D side, we
continue to innovate in complement with novel C5 inhibitors, including a subcutaneous
formulation of Ultomiris and ALXN1720, the subcutaneous minibody. Outside of 10 new
complements, we have two oral Factor D medicines, we also have ALXN1820, a subcutaneous
anti-properdin with potential application in multiple disease areas. Overall, we have a diversified
development portfolio of novel technology platforms and medicines that have the potential to
deliver attractive growth opportunities.
Turning now to Slide 30. This is an early look at how we plan to establish, scientific bridges
between Alexion and AstraZeneca to be the stronger combined organization. On the
development side, we continue to see potential to apply Alexion's leadership in complement
science to AstraZeneca's broader immunology efforts as well as bringing AstraZeneca with
precision medicine expertise to rare disease. In early research, collaboration with AstraZeneca
gene editing to gene therapy and oligonucleotide capabilities has potential to lead to the
development of novel rare disease medicine. I look forward to seeing this initial effort progress
towards new opportunities to deliver transformative medicine to patients.
Please turn to Slide 31. Rare disease year-to-date total revenue was $1.3 billion, representing 6%
quarter-on-quarter pro forma growth. Total revenue in the period were driven by strong Soliris
volume growth in neurology indications, and successful conversion to Ultomiris. Looking ahead,
we expect growth to be broadly in line with that of the new and large AstraZeneca on the
compounded growth rate basis. We reported positive Phase 3 for Ultomeris in generalized
myasthenia gravis with compelling efficacy observed as early as one week and sustained up to 52
weeks. Unfortunately, we announced discontinuation of the Phase 3 for Ultomiris in ALS on the
recommendation of the independent data monitoring committee. While this was a high-risk
program, we are nonetheless disappointed in this outcome. We reported positive Phase 3 results
for ALXN1840 in Wilson disease, demonstrating superiority versus standard of care on the
primary endpoint of copper mobilization.
Finally, Alexion exercised the option to fully acquire Caelum Bioscience and accelerate the Phase
3 development of CAEL-101 in amyloidosis for rare plasma cell dyscrasia characterized by
autonomous proliferation of plasma cell with overproduction of monoclonal immunoglobulin G.
Please turn to Slide 32. Total revenue for Soliris declined by 2%, impacted by prior year all the
timing in emerging markets. Ultomiris grew by 31% in the period driven by strong conversion from
Soliris, and 40 new country launches year-to-date. Strensiq grew by 8% in the period due to
underlying growth in the United States.
Finally, what's next on Slide 33? In July, we had the first patient in Phase 3 Ultomiris trial in
complement-mediated thrombotic microangiopathy, one of the multiple label expansion
opportunities. We also made progress with ALXN1850, our next generation asfotase alfa now in
Phase 1 for the treatment of hypophosphatasia a rare genetic bone disorder, often diagnosed in
infancy or early childhood.
As we move to Slide 34, I will now turn back to Pascal for closing remarks.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `Thank you, Marc. I will end on this Slide number 35, please. That illustrates our news flow. Can I
get Slide 35? It illustrates the news flow across the company in the coming months. In oncology,
we anticipate data from HER2 DESTINY-Breast04 trial, in HER2-low breast cancer in the first half of
next year, as well as multiple Imfinzi readouts across lung and cervical cancers. In CVRM, we will
have data from the DELIVER trial for Farxiga and HFpEF. And in rare disease, data from Ultomiris
and NOSD. We remain on track to deliver our full-year guidance, and I would like to reiterate that
our EPS guidance reflects the performance of the underlying business and is not influenced by
our COVID medicines. We're also excited with the busy clinical news flow ahead. I'm very, very
proud of our colleagues' ongoing dedication and focus and the additional of addition Alexion will
increase our commitment to bring transformative medicines to patients around the world.
Thank you all for joining and we'll now take the questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Chris Sheldon, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pascal and team. We'll now go to Q&A. (Operator Instructions) Perhaps now we can
take the first question from the conference call. Back to you, Pascal.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Chris. So, we'll take, first question is from `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co at JPMorgan. James, go
ahead.
Q - `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Hello, `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co from JP Morgan. Thanks for taking the questions. The first question is about
2021 guidance and the implied Q4. So we're about halfway through Q4, but it's an unusually wide
guidance remaining, sort of plus or minus 25%. So as things are looking now, is the bottom end of
the guidance range still fairly plausible? What would put you in the bottom versus the top for the
year? And in terms of sort of spend, normally, Q4 was quite a lot higher on OpEx in Q3 for Astra.
So on an underlying basis, ex consolidated more of Alexion, would that normal trend be
expected as the sort of big step-up in OpEx in Q4 versus Q3? So that's the first question, please.
And the follow-up I'll do that as well, which is just OpEx beyond this year. So what are the moving
parts? I can see there's quite a few Phase III initiations planned, and some of which you already
booked half of, and also a bit more promotion. But are there also a significant offset? So for
instance, China is slowing and other trials completing. So how much of the spend is going to be
incremental versus there could be some offsets or some reallocations we look forward?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Jim. So I'll ask Aradhana to comment in a minute. But let me just make a high-level point
here is that our expenses vary quarter-to-quarter. And so, we have sometimes high-Q3 or lower-
Q4, and sometimes vice versa. This year -- or last year, I should say, we had a relatively low-Q3 in
term of expenses, in particular R&D expenses. And as you can look at, if you look at it for last
year, we had an increase in spend in Q4. And this year, we don't expect that to happen in the
same way. So, what you have to look at in Q4 is the AZ expenses, and then, of course, add a full
quarter of Alexion expenses, and then the COVID R&D expenses on top. But as it relates to AZ,Q4 is going to be a lot -- it's not going to be like previous year, where we have an increase in
expenses versus Q3.
Aradhana, do you want to add more color to this?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
No, I think you've covered a number of the aspects. So, we're reiterating the guidance for the
EPS. There is obviously quarter-on-quarter variability. But also fourth quarter will include a full
quarter contribution from Alexion, which this quarter was not a full quarter. And then there is
some seasonality, as you know, on the topline as well with FluMist and some other products. And
generally, we expect fourth quarter revenue to be strong.
And then on the expense side, again, some of the elements that Pascal mentioned. So, if you
think about our fourth quarter and the AZ underlying business, which again would be probably be
more in line with fourth quarter of last year, which obviously was different versus third quarter, but
-- and then a full quarter of expenses, both R&D and SG&A from Alexion plus on top of that,
some of these COVID-related expenses where we're investing behind the antibody and the
vaccine.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
And remember also that the vaccine sales attract pharmacovigilance costs, right? So we get
enough margin, a small gross margin that cover those costs. And so, we get to zero profit. But
we have pharmacovigilance costs, just like everybody else does. And that also affects the R&D
line. But the key message is don't expect Q3, Q4 to evolve like last year. And then you can see
that why we reconfirm our guidance.
Should we move to the next question? Simon Baker of Redburn. Simon?
Q - `Simon P. Baker, Redburn Limited `
Yes, questions. Firstly, one for you, Pascal. I just wonder, given all the recent developments, if you
could give us your latest thoughts on proposed drug pricing reform in the U.S. following the
collapse and reemergence of the Democrats' proposals. And then secondly, one for Marc on
Alexion. One of the things that was touted when the deal was proposed was the much larger
geographic footprint of Astra's Alexion, and I was just wondering if you could give us a time line
of when we will start to see revenues for the Alexion portfolio coming through in new territories
as they push through the AstraZeneca infrastructure. Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Simon. Can I maybe ask Ruud actually to comment on the U.S. pricing regulation? And if
Dave, you have anything you want to add to what Ruud will say, please feel free. Over to you,
Ruud.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President of BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, of course. And thank you, Simon, for the question. First of all, I think it's fair to say that
AstraZeneca is in favor of a potential reform of the U.S. healthcare out-of-pocket costs for too
many patients are too high, which will damage the accessibility for patients to get the right
medicine at the right time. Equally, I think it's fair to say that some of the legislation is clearly not --
is not favorable for the whole industry. We don't believe that direct negotiations of the
government with individual companies is going to make a lot of sense.But it's also fair to say that there's still a lot in the air at this stage. It's far from final. So let's wait
and see how it is evolving. We are in active discussions with policymakers and influential politicians
in order to bring our arguments in front of them. So, let's not speculate too much about the final
results. But let's work constructively with each other in order to try to mitigate as many as
possible the risk potentially we will face as an industry.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Ruud. Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion `
Yes. So thank you, Simon, for the question on the larger footprint of Alexion. We are already
working very actively to establish teams -- dedicated teams where Alexion was not present until
now. And we're also engaging local regulators to gain a problem and access. So realistically, I
believe the first approval could be obtained in the course of 2022. But I would probably see the
first revenues to be generated from 2023.
Q - `Simon P. Baker, Redburn Limited `
Great. Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. The next question is Tim Anderson. And Dave, do you want to add anything to
the U.S? No?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Thank you. But I think Ruud covered it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So, next question is from Tim Anderson. Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. Just on Alexion, again, and your move into rare diseases specifically. Just your
updated thinking and assumptions about competitor products that are coming after Soliris and
Ultomiris. So for example, Novartis has iptacopan, an oral product, doing a true head-to-head
versus your two product in PNH. I think that reports out mid-2022. I'm wondering if you can remind
us again what you assumed on competitive threats like that or other products like Roche's
crovalimab when you're trying to figure out what Alexion was worth. And then just building on the
last question that you got in new geographies, can you just talk about rollout of Alexion products
in China specifically? Thank you.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion `
So let me take the second question, because it's already in great part responded to it with a
question of Simon. So if we look at the example of China, we have already established a
dedicated team locally, and we are engaging local regulators to gain access to the market. We
hope to gain a pool, maybe in the course of 2022, and possibly sell these products from 2023.
So, I think the general answer that I provided, China could be a good illustration for it.Regarding your question on competition, we are well aware of the development work done by
Novartis on the overall Factor B in PNH and other renal indications. We're also well aware of the
work done by Roche with the C5 inhibitor. I mean this is not something that we discovered
recently, we were aware of it. We believe Soliris and Ultomiris will remain very strong leaders in
their class due to the excellent efficacy, short-term and long-term efficacy in the legacy indication
PNH, atypical HUS, but also in the neurology indication where Soliris is presently indicated and
where Ultomiris as recently read out very strong Phase III results showing a very rapid onset and
durable efficacy over 52 weeks.
So this is the strength of Alexion. We believe we have enough strength to maintain the leadership
in this class. The class is going to evolve. There will be competitors entering, but also Alexion will
be moving on to other indications in the future.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Marc. Next question is `Michael Leuchten, UBS Investment Bank. Michael, go ahead.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, UBS Investment Bank `
Thank you very much. One follow-up question to your R&D commentary, please. I think last
quarter, you talked a little bit to the fact that the COVID-19 R&D was maybe going to come down
over time. It sounds like you're now saying this is going to stick around and thinking about your
commentary about the vaccine being commercial for next year. Should we assume that an
incremental R&D is actually going to run at this sort of level for longer? That's question number
one.
And then question number two on Tagrisso. I take your comment about Tagrisso in China with the
phasing, but can you talk a little bit to the risk that maybe the inventory level is also impacted by a
competitor being on the NRDL now since earlier this year? And if that's not a risk, could there be
a risk that has impacted your performance for Tagrisso for the fourth quarter? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Michael. I mean the first comment, the first question about R&D. I think what you need to
do each time is look at the quarter and look at what I might call "old AZ" then add Alexion, and for
Q3, we had two months plus a portion of July. For Q4, we'll have a full quarter of R&D expenses.
And then the third piece is the COVID assets. And what we said before is still true is that if you
look at the COVID R&D spend, you have two types. One is pharmacovigilance costs related to
distribution of the vaccine. And is two is R&D costs, developing the vaccine and the lab.
So the first part is directly correlated with the volume of vaccine we deliver. And as you saw at the
end of September, we've delivered 1.5 billion doses of vaccine globally. We continue with our
deliveries. And of course, the pharma provision costs are linked to this volume of vaccine
delivered. They are covered, as I said, by the limited gross margin we get, but they're still quite
substantial.
And then next year, you'll have lower volume, because we have new orders. But of course, the
pandemic will be behind us, so we'll be talking mostly about boosters and also some deliveries to
countries that haven't gone through their first two doses. So lower doses, and therefore, lower
PPV pharmacovigilance costs, sorry. And then the R&D is sort of the same is, we're now left with a
little bit of R&D costs related to the new vaccine, and vaccine AZD2816 looking at multiple
variants of concern. And then also some expenses around the later, but this will decline. So net-
net is R&D expenses for COVID should not be, next year, the same as this year, for sure.And if you look at the quarter-to-quarter and the dissect this, you would see that our AZD R&D
expenses are essentially what you would have expected. But then you have to add Alexion and
you have to add COVID. So I don't know, Aradhana, if you want to add to this. And if not, then
we'll ask Dave to cover Tagrisso.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
Yes, Dave, go ahead.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Great. Thanks, Michael, for the question. And I hear the question on competition, but I'm going to
also -- I'll answer that, but I want to take the opportunity just to also maybe provide some more
color on China since I know there's some questions there. So in Q2, we commented that the
frontline demand growth was robust and that inventory did factor into the China sales. And this is
pretty typical around the NRDL timing, right? Obviously, the inventory levels get drawn down in
anticipation of a price reduction. And so, we saw now in Q3 that frontline demand remains strong,
the second line share has been resilient. And right now, inventory levels are consistent with the
historical patterns.
I mentioned this in the prepared remarks, but we did also see and we see this now that we did
get a one-time benefit from some first-generation TKI switches in the frontline setting in the
second quarter, and that was one-time. And so those didn't carry into Q3. But with that said, we
expect volume growth to offset the significant price reduction that we took just only six months
ago. And we would expect that to happen in the months ahead. And that from then, topline
growth will kick in at that point.
On your question specifically on competition, it's obviously a pretty dynamic marketplace here,
there's lots of new competitors that are entering. Right now, as I said, the frontline penetration
that we're making is robust. Second line has been resilient. We do know that NRDL is in the midst
of going on. We know that in the fourth quarter in China, there is some hospital capping that
takes place. So China does remain dynamic. But in terms of the things that we can control, I think
that the demand numbers are moving in the right direction and give us confidence that we're
driving access into the populations where we've got now in our deal inclusion.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Dave. The volume growth for Tagrisso in China is very substantial. So as soon as we've
washed out the price effect, we should see some growth next year.
Sachin, Bank of America. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, BofA Securities `
I'm not sure I quite followed it. I think I understood, Pascal, you said fourth quarter wouldn't see
the usual pickup. Aradhana then said that the Astra underlying will be flat year-on-year. If I take
last year's fourth quarter SG&A and R&D being in line at on Alexion, that still points to sequential
cost growth versus numbers you print for the third quarter. So I just want to be crystal clear on
that interpretation. And given that variability third quarter to fourth quarter with third quarter high
growth, fourth quarter were flattish, what's the best indicator of cost growth into '22, please? So
that's question one.
Question two is just shorter and simpler. On Lynparza, Dave, we discussed a number of scenariosa data land and obviously not hit in all comers, but any color on the strength and confidence in
that being a multibillion opportunity. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So Sachin, I mean we don't give guidance quarter-to-quarter. But I think your assumption is -- your
assumption of building Q4 in line with Q3 for AZ. And then Alexion and COVID on top is a fair
one. For both R&D and SG&A, I think it's fair. Aradhana, anything you want to say on this one as
well?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
No. I think for fourth quarter, again, we've not given guidance per se. But the building blocks are
what we mentioned, which is if you look at fourth quarter AZ underlying for last year, you look at
the Alexion fourth quarter, which will be a full quarter and then additional expenses relating to the
COVID product.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
And the second question, anything you want to add -- go ahead, Aradhana.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
No, no, that was for Dave.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Yes. The second question from Sachin was on PROpel. And I mean I think, Sachin, on this, a
couple of things. I mean obviously, at this point, we've only shared the high-level results. And we'll
have to present the data at an upcoming meeting, I think. So within that, I'm not going to give too
much insight into how we're feeling about the full results. I think we've got to let that continue to
get analyzed and worked through. But I think just to reiterate some of the things that we talked
about last time.
If approved, PROpel is a blockbuster plus opportunity. There are a handful of variables data and
regulatory that going are to affect, I think, the ultimate size of the opportunity. The whole market
is obviously quite large in terms of the frontline metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. I
think that the things that we're going to have to learn more about as we share these data is class
share is going to be impacted by the fact that, first, remember that park combination treatment
in this setting is an entirely new approach to the treatment of these patients. I think that
physicians, and we've got both urologists as well as medical oncologists, are going to take a look
at the magnitude of the rPFS benefit in ITT. They're also likely going to want to look at HR
mutants as well as wild type. I think that they'll consider prior NHA status.
And then obviously, there's quite a bit of competition with four or five competitors. So there's a
lot of variables that are at play. So it's a big, meaningful market, blockbuster plus. And I think that
as we get to see more of the data and share more of it with clinicians and obviously with health
authorities who'll have the ability to help further refine and help with where the modeling is.
Q - `Sachin Jain, BofA Securities `
Okay. I wonder if Aradhana wanted to comment at all. I mean not providing guidance but just on
cost growth trends into '22, what's the best predictor of the 3Q trend or the 4Q trend?A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
This one -- go ahead, Aradhana.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
We'll provide guidance for 2022 when we provide the full year results.
Q - `Sachin Jain, BofA Securities `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Next question is Steve Scala at Cowen.
Q - `Stephen Michael Scala, Cowen and Company `
Thank you. I have a couple of questions, and I apologize for another Q4 question. But you were
asked a couple of times about the wide Q4 EPS range implied in the full year guidance. What are
the biggest uncertainties over the next six weeks that are creating the inability to narrow the
range at this time? Or is it that the company knows exactly where it is headed within the range,
but you're just not choosing to change the prior guidance? I assume if you were headed for the
low end of the EPS range that you would have told us that today. And then the second question
for Dave. What percent of U.S. Tagrisso sales go through Medicare Part D? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Steve. I mean your assumption is fair, and we are absolutely on track. There's no concern
on our side as it relates to our guidance. We didn't know it. I mean maybe Aradhana wants to
cover this, but we thought we stick to what we have in half year. There was no specific reason or
concern. Aradhana, do you want to address that?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
I mean generally, we give guidance for the year. This year, we updated the guidance in the close
of Alexion, given that was a major transaction. But other than that, I think we're reconfirming
guidance. And we don't want to give sort of every quarter further updates.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Yes. And we are on track. I mean, Steve, there's really no concern that made us -- I mean that
drove our decision. It was just sticking to what we had said half year. I mean we're absolutely on
track. Dave, do you want to cover the second question?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Yes. Pascal, can you just come back to me on that one. I want to make sure I get Steve the right
one on this. And so can we just come back?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
I am not sure if it was sales of Medicare Part D.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `I understood the question. I need to just come back on the answer to it. Can we come back just
right after the next one? Yes.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Yes, sorry. So we'll come back to it a bit later. So next question is `Andrew Baum, Citi at Citi. Andrew,
go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Question to Susan, and then one for Dave. So Susan, could you talk to your confidence on the
bystander effect being clinically significant? And how dependent is the outcome of DESTINY-
Breast04 on that given a sort of heterogeneous patient population?
And then second for Dave. Just following on from the conversations about U.S. drug pricing
proposals, and I completely understand that there's a significant uncertainty between what is
circulating and what may ultimately get past. But taking what has been proposed as the final
outcome, how should we think about the potential risk to Tagrisso from lower-price entrants? And
I'm thinking of almonertinib, if the PBMs are now on the hook for 60% of catastrophic coverage,
do you anticipate that, that would precipitate widespread use of step edits, prioritization, the like
that could exert a significant downward effect on volume or pricing for Tagrisso within the
Medicare Part D segment of the U.S.? Thank you.
A - `Susan Mary Galbraith, Executive Vice President of Oncology Research & Development `
So I can take the first question. Thanks, Andrew. So I do think the bystander effect is important.
The basic design of the molecule is to have a link or a stable in the peripheral circulation and
cleavable in the tumor microenvironment. We've shown that, that makes a difference preclinically.
And I think the totality of data across the HER2 program, not just from the J101 data, which was in
low HER2 breast cancer, we showed activity beyond what you have seen with ADCs like TDM-1
that don't have that kind of capable link that is a bystander effect.
It's not just the low HER2 breast cancer data and the DBO3 high HER2 breast cancer data, but
across the totality of the program in a range of tumors that have lower HER2 expression than the
highly amplified. You're seeing a range of activities beyond what you would have expected from
prior designed ADCs. So I think that does underpin the confidence in the design of DBO4, and
we look forward to seeing the data in the early part of next year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Susan.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
So thank you, Andrew, on the question. Let me also just start on Steve's question. Part D
represents 20% of the U.S. Tagrisso business. And it's relevant, obviously, to the question that
Andrew you asked as well. I mean I think, Andrew, on this particular piece, that certainly the
resolve of plans to try to put into place, mechanisms to manage their share of catastrophic will
unlikely be emboldened by the increased percentage if it goes through as it's said. I still think that
it's important to keep in mind that, one, ALMO needs to be able to get approved in the United
States with single-arm -- I mean, sorry, with a different comparator arm. We don't know where OS
is going to net out. And obviously, China only study.And I also that think physician prescribing preferences as it relates to that clinical benefit that we -
- or clinical strength that we see right now does remain to be an important area of influence. So
we'll have to see exactly how it plays out. But I think that those are the ways that we're thinking
about it right now.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks. Mark Purcell, the next question. Mark, over to you.
Q - `Mark Douglas Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Pascal, thank you very much. The question is on investment discipline supporting the industry-
leading pipeline. You've got a clearly, a very broad set of organic opportunities in front of you,
and you mentioned the potential for BD. So just sort of in general, Pascal, given you've sort of
given us in the past sort of AstraZeneca underlying revenue growth, ex and ex and ex vaccine is
double-digit, should we also be expecting R&D growth to support that being roughly double-digit
growth going forward?
And then secondly, to the some of the products where there's been updates. Could you sort of
help us understand next steps now for the cotadutide and PCSK9 molecules, whether they're
going to jump into Phase III, yes or no? And then for the NPO, you mentioned you're now going to
start a Phase IIb, Phase III. And clearly, that could be a very complementary molecule alongside
Farxiga potentially a combination molecule. So maybe, Mene, if you could tell us sort of what the
plans are for AZD4831, that would be really useful. Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Mark. I mean the R&D expense, whatever we said before, we've said before that it would
be in the low 20s, maybe a little bit more than 20, but around that kind of number over time.
That's the kind of spend that I think we need to maintain. And of course, we need to have the
projects. If we don't have the projects, we'll reduce. Where we tend these days to have more
projects than we can fund. So we cut the R&D spend, and we prioritize. And it's sometimes
painful, but we do prioritize heavily. And we've said that what we're going to do is, over time,
reduce SG&A, and that hasn't changed, and we continue working on this. You saw in Q3, we have
more leverage.
Of course, Q3, Q4, I think there's a cannibalization issue of expenses that maybe not everybody
had really considered. But overall, we continue driving operational leverage, and that will continue
to happen with an SG&A spend as a percentage of sales that reduces. On the other question,
Mene, do you want to cover this one?
A - `Menelas Pangalos, EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D and Member of External Sustainability `
Yes. I mean I can say that cotanotide data will be presented soon the PCSK9 data we haven't had.
I mean all of these programs have met the go criteria for moving. As Pascal said, that they've all
got to be reviewed and prioritized and go to governance, and then we have to formally make the
Phase III investment decision based on the business case and the opportunity. So whilst we have, I
think, the data set to move to Phase III, we also need to have the business case to move to
Phase III as well, and they have to stack up against other opportunities that we have. (Multiple
Speakers) I have to say from a biopharma perspective.
Q - `Mark Douglas Purcell, Morgan Stanley `And Mene, on the AZD4831 product, the NPO, could you help us understand what the plans are
for that?
A - `Menelas Pangalos, EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D and Member of External Sustainability `
It's an integrated program. So we'll have interims obviously. And if we meet the interim analysis
criteria, then we'd move into the Phase III part of the study.
Q - `Mark Douglas Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Mark. The next question is Richard Parkes, and we'll try to keep our responses short.
Richard, over to you.
Q - `Richard J. Parkes, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. So firstly, I recall that on a call post announcement of the
Alexion acquisition, Marc, with Astra comfortable around the trajectory of consensus,
AstraZeneca topline and margins through the deal. And you stated that, in fact, internal planning
assumptions suggested upside to that. And for that reason, I think consensus has assumed an
uplift in margins next year and then improvement thereafter. I just wonder if Marc's comment on
underlying margin assumptions still stands or if anything has changed over the last 12 months,
either there be pressure from VBP or simply a desire to invest to a greater degree and might
depress profitability. And so that's the first question. The second is just on China VBP headwinds
next year. You've obviously now got visibility on what products are going to be impacted. I
wondered if you would be willing to quantify what kind of headwinds you'd expect in 2022? Thank
you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Aradhana, do you want to cover the first one? And Leon could cover the second one.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
Yes. I think the first one is really around the question is one of operating leverage, and we're
always focused on improving our operating leverage, balanced obviously with investment in the
business. And as Pascal, you heard him, and I'm sure my R&D colleagues will invest that we have
more projects that we can fund. And then there's always some quarter-on-quarter variability. But
our ambition is to be at sort of the 30% plus for the base business and Alexion on top. Alexion
will now, going forward, obviously, as part of our core business. And our mix shift in terms of the
specialty versus primary care will continue to evolve. And where we see margins going will
depend on how that mix evolves, which of our programs are more successful. And you know we
also have some partnered programs, which have lower margins. But our ambition is -- continues
to be the same, and we are very much focused on operating leverage. It think there's some R&D
questions for Mene.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
No, it was a VBP question for China.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive VP of International & China President `Yes. So regarding VBP for 2022, I think the batch six this year is still insulin. And they could be
coming first half of next year, batch 7. And one of our major products, I think, Seloken could
potentially be impacted next year. But based on our past experience, VBP tender, we usually will
not win the tender, and we get a 20% to 30% price cut and lose some volume and maintaining a
majority of the loyal patients. So I think -- and gradually, the sales is flattening out. So I think
there's impact. I think the largest impact next year will be VBP impact, actually happened already
in October this year. So -- and will continue to have impact on Pulmicort business.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Leon. I mean the time of VBP, which are the impact, I mean, we've had quite a number of
products affected this year, which affect this year and next year. But in terms of new batches, as
Leon explained, next year, this -- we are much less affected with fewer products. I mean Seloken
is really the main one.
So the next question is `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken Capital Markets. Mattias, go ahead.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken Capital Markets `
`Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken Capital Markets, thank you. Thanks so much for taking my questions. I have two. So with a
public offer for Sobi whereas AstraZeneca has an 8% shareholding and roughly a $640 million
position, and given the acceptance period has now been extended twice, I'm not sure I've seen
AstraZeneca's view of the offer. And tied to this, and given your recent acquisition of Alexion, can
you remind me if this is a strategic position or a financial one? And then secondly, with two
antivirus for COVID close to be rolled out in the marketplace, can you talk about what role you
think the antibody cocktails, including long-acting prophylaxis will play in light of these recent
developments? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Aradhana, you want to take the first one and Mene, the second one?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `
Yes. So we can't really -- and don't really comment on our financial positions. So, we can't really
comment on your Sobi question.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D and Member of External Sustainability `
Can I just make sure I understood the question that you asked about. I wasn't sure if you're asking
a question about the vaccine and the antibody or just the antibody. Can you just repeat the
question, please, Mattias?
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken Capital Markets `
Sure, Mene. So, I was wondering if the view of the long-acting prophylactic antibodies is now seen
in a different light given the recent development of some polymerase and protease inhibitors?
A - `Menelas Pangalos, EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D and Member of External Sustainability `
Not at all. Not at all. I mean again, I'll put it -- I'll try and articulate it reasonably. About 2% of the
population, 2% to 3% don't respond adequately to vaccines, cancer patients, hematological
malignancies, transplant patients people on chronic immunosuppression, right? We can wait for
them to get sick and then have somewhere between the 50% and 80% protection from severedisease. And so, they stay locked up and don't go out at all, or you can give them a single
injection and protect them for a year from getting any symptoms. I know what I'd rather have.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So I'm not going to protect those people using tablets every month or every week or so, right?
So totally different use.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken Capital Markets `
Thank you so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Next one is Matt Weston of Credit Suisse. Matt, over to you.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Two questions, please. The first for Dave on Tagrisso in the U.S. I'm mindful
of your comments. Patient diagnosis from COVID, only 10% light of pre-COVID levels. You
mentioned already seeing an impact of increasing treatment duration. And you're stressing that
adjuvant is only a modest 20% of frontline patients. So given those, can you just help map out
how we should look at Tagrisso, particularly in the U.S. market evolving over the coming years? I
think consensus expectations bake in quite meaningful growth, but it suggests from your
comments that maybe we shouldn't.
And then the second is a question for Aradhana. Specifically, Merck in its 10-Q at the third quarter
said it has set aside $400 million for payments to you on Lynparza. Can you let us know what
you're assuming what we booked in 4Q of those $400 million? Thank you.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
So on U.S. Tagrisso, I think that the first element is that as we look at where we are right now, I
think that we do continue to see rising frontline duration of treatment. I think that this is a source
of growth moving forward and something that is important. I think secondly, certainly I'm
optimistic that the COVID effects will wash themselves out here at some point in the not-too-
distant future. I think that the key and core element in the U.S. is the Adora population.
While the NRx contribution to our TRxs at the moment right now is relatively modest, and I think,
in many respects, being offset by the COVID declines, the duration of therapy that we would
expect somewhere between two and three years does really begin to, over time, add up. So, I
think from a peak year perspective, when we take a look at adjuvant as we continue to move the
key performance indicators, which is we continue to move testing rates, continue to move
referrals, continue to move adjuvant treatment utilization. And as we get the TRx growth, I think
that we're going to see peak year have good opportunities for growth. I think it's just the time
that it's going to take to get there maybe a little longer than some folks were anticipating given
the speed with which we penetrated into the frontline metastatic space.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Dave. Aradhana, you want to cover the first one?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director `Yes. So on your specific question, we don't give specifics around milestones and -- but that is the
arrangement, as you know, that we have with Merck, and that will reflect as the milestones are
earned in our estimates.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Next question is Emmanuel Papadakis. Emmanuel, over to you.
Q - `Emmanuel Douglas Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for taking the question. Emmanuel Papadakis from Deutsche Bank. Maybe take a couple
on the collaboration assets. So datopotamab, I noticed probably on Lung01 was not listed as a
2022 readout. So is that now more likely '23? More importantly, you announced the initiation of
TROPION-Lung08 PD-L1 high with KEYTRUDA. So just interested in the rationale for that, why PD-
L1 high, why choose KEYTRUDA over Imfinzi? And how do you see that sitting with TIGIT, for
example, where you also obviously have an active clinical development program?
And then maybe just a couple very short ones on HER2. Could you just give us an update on your
adjuvant plan season? You did mention the lack of significant ILD being encouraging for earlier
line use, you're still yet to announce anything in adjuvant. And could you just clarify your
perspective and the extent of your potential exposure to the outcome of the Seagen-DS
litigation? Are you intent from that? Or does that remain to be determined? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Emmanuel. So maybe, Susan, you could cover the first one, and Dave the second one.
A - `Susan Mary Galbraith, Executive Vice President of Oncology Research & Development `
Okay. Thank you. So I think the opportunity for datopotamab deruxtecan is extensive in many
different settings. So you will see a range of different trials that we will be pursuing. Obviously, in
PD-L1 high, pembrolizumab is an accepted standard of care. So, I think the design of TROPION-
Lung08 which is being run by our colleagues at Daiichi Sankyo is logical in that regard. But we will
be continuing to develop just this particular ADC in a number of different settings. So you can
expect to see more on that later.
In terms of the opportunity for Enhertu in the early stages of breast cancer, again, we're
continuing to look at the development of this agent in many different settings. And again, you will
continue to see further trials that will be announced as we're ready to in the coming months and
years.
Q - `Emmanuel Douglas Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Sorry, can you just give us any perspective on TIGIT, clinical provisioning and modification?
A - `Susan Mary Galbraith, Executive Vice President of Oncology Research & Development `
So again, I think there are different opportunities for these settings. I think they add different
pieces to it. Obviously, I think -- I suppose, we want to do it to counter the different mechanism of
action from an additional checkpoint inhibitor in that setting. So I think they're going to have -- as
you see, the evolution of the next wave of immuno-oncology agents and the introduction of
antibody-drug conjugates.I actually think there's going to be an opportunity for combinations and potentially further
segmentation of the space. So I think there are different opportunities and different patients may
be interested in those different opportunities depending on their particular tumor type and their
setting and their underlying fitness.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
So just very quickly, Emmanuel, on Seagen and Daiichi Sankyo, just for everybody's benefit. I
mean -- so there are two things that folks can sometimes mix. There's an arbitration. There's a
litigation. The arbitration, which is a private matter between DS and Seagen, is something we're
not party to, and so we just don't comment on. In terms of the litigation that's going on in Texas,
we're working together with Daiichi Sankyo to vigorously defend against the Seagen patent. We
consider that patent, which expires in 2024, to be invalid.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Dave. Next question is `Adam Karlsson, ABG Sundal Collier Holding. Over to you, Adam.
Q - `Adam Karlsson, ABG Sundal Collier Holding `
Thank you for taking my question. Just the one, in terms of initial integration costs and
subsequent cost synergies from the Alexion acquisition. Now that some time has passed, how do
you see the dynamic between these two factors developing over time? And when do you expect
cost synergies to begin to be realized in earnest? And will this be quite a gradual process or
more a front-loaded gain. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion `
Yes. So we had announced $500 million synergy from the third year post closing. We are
confirming these numbers. To your question, when do these synergies start appearing? I can just
say that they will start appearing, to a limited extent, from 2021. But the full extent, the 100% of
the synergies will be delivered in 2024. And obviously, this will progressively grow over time.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. Next question is Seamus Fernandez. Over to you, Seamus.
Q - `Seamus Christopher Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks for the question. So I wanted to kind of come back to VBP. I think the comment was that
we could see, I guess, what would potentially be a net reduction of about 50% for silicon. We've
got the pressures from VBP this quarter. Really two elements to this question, trying to get a
better understanding of the underlying operating profit contribution and -- from China going
forward, and the incremental pressure points that we could see as potential generics. I think we
have patent expirations at least listed coming in China in 2024 for Lynparza and potentially also
relative to Farxiga.
So I was just hoping you could help us clarify some of those patent time lines and when we might
see generics to those products. The operating profit contribution that you're anticipating from
China, if you expect that to be meaningfully incremental going forward over the next two to threeyears? And then just as we think about VBP in China, is there a way to kind of help us characterize
the year-over-year impact of VBP so there are a limited number of surprises in 2022? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So it's one question, but it's probably a 1-hour discussion. So if that's okay with you, we could
follow up with you separately because there are so many pieces you've raised there. I'll make a
general comment, which is over the next four, five years, we still expect, on the CAGR basis -- on
a CAGR basis, we still expect China to grow by high single-digit. I mean China is definitely going
to be under pressure. We've said it before. And China being china, it moves at light speed and
things happen faster than anybody expected.
But we still have a strong business. We are fast-tracking the approval of our new products. So we
still believe it will be a reasonable business for us. But the growth rate will not be 20%, 30% like
we've experienced in the last few years. I mean we are Number 1 in the market, and we, again,
still expect to grow by high single-digit on a CAGR basis. We'll give more color on '22 when we
guide in January. But in terms of the individual pieces you've raised, we could actually follow up
with you. So, we get -- give a chance to the last three or four questions left. Luisa Hector. Over to
you, Luisa.
Q - `Luisa Caroline Hector, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. `
Thank you, Pascal. On -- maybe a question for Dave. I mean it was a good quarter. Just checking
on what was driving growth, any stocking benefits? Or is this very much the duration of use,
perhaps some market share gains rather than COVID recovery, because your competitor still
talks about the COVID impact? And for Mene or Ruud, the Saphnelo launch, just a little bit more
color on the target patients reimbursement just so we can think about the pace of that sales
ramp. And I noticed lupus nephritis Phase II did not meet the primary endpoints. So have you
stopped development there? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So maybe Ruud, you could cover the Saphnelo question. The first one, I missed what product that
is. So it may have been an oncology product for you, Dave, but I'm sorry, I missed it.
Q - `Luisa Caroline Hector, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. `
Sorry, it was Calquence.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Calquence, so over to you, Dave. And then the next one is Ruud, yes.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Sure. So Luisa, I mean I think as we highlighted and I highlighted, pretty pleased with the
Calquence performance. The specifics on the question that you're asking, I mean, we're seeing
good growth in new patient starts in CLL. We're seeing also that correspond with good growth in
TRx-es. We see that the CLL uptake that's also taking place is happening in naive patients. And I
think that's really important, obviously, in terms of getting that kind of frontline. When I say naive, I
mean BTKI-naive patients.
So this is a demand story that we're seeing right now. There's probably some kind of COVID
elements that are in here. It's one where though there were some COVID benefits in switchesfrom immunochemotherapy. This is one product where we saw some benefits to that. So I think
that what I would say is that for us, this is a demand story and one that I'm proud of the work that
the team's doing to really establish this brand is best-in-class.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Ruud?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President of BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Okay. Let me quickly address the question about Saphnelo for lupus. Clearly, we see some very
good early response from physicians. Equally, it's pleasing to see that we see patients, both in
first line as well as in controls. Reimbursement is still, of course, a work in progress, although
we're quite pleased where we are. And we're still very early in the launch. But there are also a
couple of, clearly, challenges. We are still launching this product in COVID time.
Rheumatologists specifically are very sensitive with respect to immunocompromised patients like
elderly patients, so they want to have all their patients vaccinated with COVID. And equally, of
course, we are still not having a permanent J-Code. But although the signals are looking good,
and we have a very dedicated team in place. And clearly, 2022 will be the year where we will see
hopefully, the fruits of our efforts here, Luisa.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D and Member of External Sustainability `
There was a question on lupus nephritis, I don't know if I'm -- can you hear me?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President of BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, we can hear you.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, EVP of BioPharmaceuticals R&D and Member of External Sustainability `
Just on your question on lupus nephritis, so actually, although the study was -- didn't meet its
primary endpoint, there were two dose regimens. One was the normal regimen. One was an
intensified regimen. Actually the intensified regimen, Luisa, showed very encouragingly, I think,
clinically meaningful benefits relative to the placebo arm. And so that is the regimen that we're
taking forward right now into late-stage studies. And of course, this is another population or
benefit from the lab, just to add to Ruud's comment around an immune-suppressed population
that we're already going to be working with.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Next question is Victor [ph] Sendai. Victor, over to you. We're trying to -- actually, a bit, we're over
time, but we want to cover your questions. Over to you, Victor.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. Thank you for taking my questions. So I have one of the rare disease
portfolio. It seems like a lot of the growth case here is in neurology for your established portfolio.
But given that myasthenia gravis is more of a common rare disease, I, guess versus PNH and
aHUS, how much is the high price a challenge for you to expand in that indication, especially given
that maybe the competitive pipeline with anti-FcRns will probably come in at a much lower price
point if they get approved here going forward?A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion `
Shall I take the question, Pascal?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Yes. Over to you, Marc.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion `
So for the time being, only Soliris is approved in the two neurology indications. Myasthenia gravis
is one of them, neuromyelitis optica is the second one. The growth in terms of patients have
been very substantial. You don't see the sales on Soliris grow because we are converting Soliris
to Ultomiris in the legacy indication, PNH and atypical HUS. So you have these two opposite
factors taking place.
But the growth in neurology is very strong. Most of the utilization of Soliris in myasthenia gravis is
for refractory patients, for patients for which any other treatment doesn't work.
We have recently opened a real study, a Phase III study for Ultomiris. This study is going to be fine
with authorities, and we expect an approval in the course of 2022. So we will be converting Soliris
patients to Ultomiris from 2022. And the label of Ultomiris hopefully will be wider than the label of
Soliris. And -- but there will be also, as you mentioned, all the companies entering with all the
mechanism in the field of myasthenia gravis but the field of myasthenia gravis is composed of
very different segments. And I think Soliris and Ultomiris will keep retaining a strong advantage in
this indication.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Marc. So we'll take two last questions, and then we'll have to close. So we respect your
time. So Christopher, I'd say, Christopher Uhde, you're on go.
Q - `Christopher Winston Uhde, SEB `
On PARP, the selective PARP, does Merck have an option for the selective PARP or indeed any
other potential PARPs going forward? And just can you -- when it comes to -- I mean the choice of
Zytiga versus XTANDI, can you remind us why you chose Zytiga for PROpel? And what are the
future plans in prostate cancer moving earlier, for example? If you risk losing out to Pfizer as
nonhormone therapy -- novel hormone therapies move up the treatment algorithm?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So I mean we typically do not comment on our current track. So maybe this one we'll -- Dave, do
you want to cover the second question about prostate?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Yes, sure. I certainly invite Susan to offer any comment on this. I mean I think that in terms of this,
there's a good and growing use of abiraterone that we see across the globe. And it's --
therefore, was a very logical NHA to include within this. Now obviously, there are other utilizations
that are non-abi that exists. But that's the primary reason that was in there just in terms of the
choice. Susan, do you want to add?
A - `Susan Mary Galbraith, Executive Vice President of Oncology Research & Development `No, I think you've covered it. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So the last question, Andrew Berens of Leerink. Over to you.
Q - `Andrew Scott Berens, SVB Leerink `
Hi. Thanks. Just a follow-up question on the Seagen and Daiichi arbitration. I know you said you're
not involved in the contract dispute. But if it does result in a royalty paid to Seagen because
they're found -- they're in a portion of the molecule, would that incremental cost impact your
share of the profit? And then I also just wanted to get a clarification from Dave on his sizing in the
adjuvant setting. He said, I think it was about 25% of the metastatic setting. But I thought that over
three quarters of patients diagnosed with lung cancer and developed countries are amenable to
surgery. So any color on the step off there?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Dave?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President of Oncology Business Unit `
Sure. So I mean I guess on the first piece, we don't really have anything more to add other than
the comments that I offered on that we're just not -- we're not a party to the arbitration on that.
So I think that's where we'll stay with right now.
On the adjuvant portion, we've been pretty, I think, consistent in talking about the fact that
there's far too many patients in lung cancer that are diagnosed late. And in fact, I think it's also
important to remember that we're talking about patients that are 1B to 3A. And so you've got, I
don't know, about 60%, 65% of patients diagnosed in Stage 4. The balance of those are going to
be 1A through your 3B -- yes, your 3B population. So the ADAURA indication itself is about 20% to
25% of the size of the FLAURA indication.
And I think that really, the data are so impressive that we are really enthusiastic to be educating
the multidisciplinary teams on utilization of these data. But adjuvant treatment is not something
that is happening widely across the globe, and it's taking us some work and some effort to really
make sure that it's happening. But we're pleased with the progress that we're making, and I'm
confident that we will make good inroads in time into this important segment where we can really
hopefully bend survival curves in this early stage.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Dave. I mean, let me just very quickly close. And what I want to say is we continue to
deliver a very strong growth. We've talked about China slowing down. And of course, we all know
it's a more difficult environment. But other parts of the business are picking up speed. Overall, we
still see pretty strong growth over this year and over the next few years. We are still in line with
the growth rate we have communicated in the past on a CAGR basis to 2025. And where the
pipeline is looking very strong, there's more to come, more growth to come. So we continue
funding, of course, this pipeline.
Now between Q3 and Q4 this year, I mean, we have definitely calendarization questions. But
there's no doubt in our mind that we will deliver on our guidance. We're very, very optimistic
about it. And then if you look at it in the quarter, some people were asking, I mean, we will
continue getting sales momentum there with a full quarter of Alexion on top because in Q3, wedidn't have a full quarter there. I think Emmanuel and Matt -- or Matt was asking questions about
the collaboration revenue, the milestone. I would just guide you to the consensus in terms of
what you have there.
Expenses, we've talked about. I mean so if you take all of this into account, you can see that we
expect to deliver our guidance for the year, and there's absolutely no concern in our mind. The
COVID assets are delivering no profit overall. But the good news is we're moving now
progressively into a profitable mode for the vaccine. It will be always a modest profitability, but it
will be profitable.
And the lab, in particular, we believe, has a substantial place in prophylaxis for patients who have
immune issues like transplant patients, cancer patients, patients with immunosuppressive
therapy, et cetera. So we see quite a big potential for this one.
So net-net is, we still see ourselves as a very -- as a company growing very strongly over the next
few years. And of course, we will continue improving our operating margin, as we've said. No
change to what we've told you in the past. So again, thank you so much for your interest in our
company, and we look forward to more good news over the next few quarters.
Thank you.