Q3 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q3 2022 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode. And the conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will
be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions). Please limit yourself to one question
and return to the queue for any follow-ups. A recording of the conference call, including the Q&A
session, will be available on our website shortly after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr.`Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And good morning and good afternoon, everybody. Thank you, again, for
taking the time to participate in Novartis' quarter three conference call. Before we start, just a
quick reminder of the Safe Harbor. The information presented today contains forward-looking
statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. These may
cause the actual results to be materially different from any future results, performance, or
achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For a description of some of these
factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly results on Form 6-
K that respectively were filed with and furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.And with that, I'll hand the call to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir. And thanks, everyone, for joining today's conference call. I'm moving to the first
slide, take a couple of slides forward. Novartis delivered solid quarter three performance, really
across all of our core value drivers. From a growth standpoint, group sales were up 4% in
constant currency. That was driven both by solid performance in IM at 4% as well as in Sandoz.
U.S. IM sales were up 8% consistent with our strategy to continue to improve our position in the
U.S. market.
From a productivity standpoint, group core operating income was up 5%, again, driven by IM,
which is up 7%. We also had -- continued our margin progression with 1 percentage point
improvement. Our savings from our SG&A program are on track, and Harry will cover that in a bit
more detail. From an innovation standpoint, we had some important events, particularly the
approval of Pluvicto over the positive opinion in Europe from the CHMP. And the readout we had,
and announced earlier this week, of Iptacopan and PNH across two superiority end points versus
anti-C5, and I'll go through that in a bit more detail.
Lastly, on an ESG front, we had an important announcement with respect to our work with the
medicines patent pool as well as two additional important milestones for two development
programs in hydroxide -- with hydroxyurea in sickle cell disease as well as in malaria.
Moving to the next slide. The performance in the quarter was really driven by Entresto, Kasimpta,
Kisqali and Pluvicto. And you can see the growth here for each of these brands, Entresto
continues its strong trajectory, Kasimpta and Kisqali performing well, and Pluvicto in its first full
quarter in the launch also performing very well in its early days. We also saw good performance
across some of the other brands, and we'll come to that brand by brand in the upcoming section.
Moving to Slide 6. One important element of our story is our ability to make our six key end
market growth drivers into multibillion-dollar medicines. And we're staying on track with respect
to that to really continue our confidence in our midterm growth outlook. Those six brands now
account for 33% of IM sales, and they were growing 23% in the quarter. And as noted, both
Scemblix and Pluvicto now are off to a good start, and could one day be added to that list of six
brands to also be potential multi-billion-dollar brands in the future, depending on how redevs [ph]
go in the earlier lines.
Moving to the next slide. Now we'll just take a walk through each of the individual brands, and I'll
give you some of the key highlights from the quarter. Cosentyx showed a steady growth in the
quarter. You can see 7% growth in quarter three. We were maintaining our competitive position in
our core geographies. We have over 875,000 patients now treated. In the U.S., we saw solid
volume growth, but we also saw the impact of increased revenue deductions, particularly in
Medicaid and 340B segment, relative to a previous uplift we saw in revenue deductions in the
previous year. That's something we'll continue -- we expect to continue in the quarter four.
Now with respect to Europe, we maintained our leadership position amongst originator biologics
in psoriasis and spondyloarthritis. Future growth drivers for Cosentyx to get to that $7 billion peak
sales will be driven by our continued expansion in China. Notably, in China, at the moment, we do
face headwinds with the ongoing lockdowns, but we continue to expect China to be an important
part of our story. Hidradenitis suppurativa is now filed -- submitted, filed in both FDA and EMA, I
told you a little bit more about why we feel like we have a good opportunity with this indication.
We expect to submit our IV regulatory file in quarter four and we also continue to advance ourlifecycle management program across additional indications, including giant cell arteritis where
we saw pretty solid Phase 2b data.
Now moving to Slide 8. Entresto continues strongly across all geographies, 31% growth in the
quarter. You can see here, the weekly TRx has continued to set record after record, really strong
performance in the U.S., but also around the world. We now have over 8 million patients on
therapy, accelerating momentum in the U.S., strong demand in Europe. When you look at the
future growth drivers of the brand, it's worth noting that only a third of eligible HFrEF patients are
currently on treatment in the G7. And there's a strong profile we continue to build in clinical and
real world settings in heart failure. We have guidelines that continue to support the use of
Entresto and HFrEF, and also support its use in HFpEF. And we're also seeing good demand from
the hypertension indications we were able to secure in Japan and in China.
Moving to Slide 9. So, Zolgensma had a little bit of a challenged quarter. We now are
predominantly seeing growth -- we're seeing demand from the incident population, both U.S. and
ex-U.S. are shifted to an incident patient population. Year-to-date, we still have double-digit
growth in incident patients treated, and we've exceeded 2,500 patients treated worldwide.
Going forward, what will be key for us is to continue to expand into new markets. It's a
foundational treatment, as you all know, for Type 1 in new-borns. We are approved in 45
countries, and we have access negotiations ongoing now in 10-plus markets, including some
important markets such as Brazil.
We also continue to work to increase new-born screening rates to 35% -- above 35% in Europe
and hopefully get overtime to the rate that we see in the U.S. where we're close to 98% of new-
born screened. Taken together, we expect Zolgensma to -- we continue to expect Zolgensma to
reach the $1.5 billion to $2 billion sales level in the IV indication alone. We are getting beyond that
sales level, we'll require expansion into the intrathecal indication in the two day 18 year old patient
segment. Whereas the STEER study is continuing to enroll and we also have the STRENGTH study
looking at the IV utilization in that indication starting in Q4 2022.
And moving to Slide 10. Kisqali had a really strong quarter across all regions with 49% growth on
the quarter. You can see importantly in the middle panel of the slide, the trend break we've had
with respect to NBRx share in the U.S. in the metastatic population, where we've been able to
climb over the course of this year from 12% to 13% to now 26% exiting in August. That's really on
the back of the strong data that we have with respect to OS across all of the metastatic lines. It's
the only CDK4/6 with overall survival benefit across three Phase 3 studies. We also have strong
data with respect to quality of life.
We've launched a head-to-head study, the HARMONIA study versus Ibrance to further solidify that
profile. And the NATALEE study continues. We have not had any feedback yet from the steering
committee with respect to the first interim analysis. And when that feedback becomes available,
if it indicates any action on our part, we will of course inform the market.
Moving to Slide 11. Now, Kesimpta had strong sales growth as well in the quarter, driven by its U.S.
launch momentum, 172%. You can see here on its launch trajectory, really all of the key metrics are
trending in a favorable direction. TRx a 131%, NBRx 47% versus a market notably that's declining
20%. We are up to 30% NBRx share in B-cell, amongst B-cell therapies in MS and the U.S. with a
goal to reach 50% share.
We're adding 100 new riders per month. Our initiation programs with our patient hub are
performing extremely well. And we also released new four your data in recently diagnosed and
treatment naive Kasimpta patience, that support its use in earlier stages in RMS disease. So,really good trajectory here and an opportunity for us now to also accelerate our efforts outside of
the United States to bring this medicine to more multiple sclerosis patients around the world.
Now moving to the next slide. Now, with Leqvio, as we've noted, this is a steady build over the
course of 2023 and the first half of 2024. Last quarter, we highlighted that we have good data or
good positioning right now with respect to market access with 70% of lives covered at or near
the full label. The vast majority of patients are able to access the medicine with a low co-pay. And
now what we're doing is step-by-step expanding HCP adoption with now 4,800 or so physicians
that have been able to initiate a patient on Leqvio.
What is critical now for us is to guide these physicians through the process so that they're able to
get their patients on-board. They're able to see how buy-and-bill works. And importantly, they're
also able to see the impact of the medicine on lowering LDL for their patients. What we find is, in
physicians that have gone through that process and have ultimately seen the impact on their
patients, over 80% of physicians are pleased by the process and are pleased by the clinical and
safety profile of the medicine. We just need to get more physicians through that process.
So you can see some of the other data on the right hand side. We have a free trial offer as well
that's launched that's seen strong uptake. So we'll continue to work through the hurdles step by
step. I think the right things are happening. But again, this is going to take time and we really think
it's a mid-year next year before you would expect to see any further acceleration beyond the
linear path that we're on at the moment.
Now moving to the next slide. Pluvicto, as I noted in my opening comments, is off to a strong start
in the U.S. We're seeing very rapid launch uptake for this brand in the third, fourth line castration-
resistant prostate cancer, metastatic prostate cancer segment. $80 million in share, we're already
up to 14% NBRx share in the post-taxane setting. We have 120 centers actively ordering and really
focused on servicing those centers in an outstanding way, 75% of insured lives are covered and
we have a permanent A code now in effect as of October.
Now looking ahead, as we prepare for additional data and its potential expansion of the
indications for this medicine, we're expanding the number of treatment centers. We expect to
overtime get to 350 to 400 centers. We're significantly increasing our manufacturing capacity. We
have our Italian site Ivrea online, and Millburn and Indianapolis are planned for 2023.
I mentioned already the positive CHMP opinion, and we're on track for the readout of PSMAfore
before the end of this year, and PSMAddition. Of note, PSMAfore, our current assessment is this
would cover all pre-taxane metastatic patients, eliminating the need for one of the additional
studies we had previously expected to be running in that setting. And in PSMAddition, in the
hormone-sensitive setting, we would expect to read out in 2024. So more to come. But overall, a
solid launch so far with Pluvicto.
Now moving to the next slide and looking at some Scemblix. Scemblix also continuing a solid
launch momentum through quarter three. You can see $41 million in sales, 13% total overall
patients share in the third line setting, and 39% third line new patient share. That new patients'
share growth has slowed a bit as we would have expected, as we need patience to switch off of
therapies that are currently in line to be typically moved to Scemblix.
Looking ahead, we expect -- we have had the accelerated approval converted to a regular
approval based on 96 week data. The global rollout is ongoing. And importantly, our Phase 3
study is enrolling ahead of plan. Right now, we forecast the readout expected on this first --
(Technical Difficulty)Operator
Please continue to stand by. Your conference will resume shortly. Thank you for your patience.
Please continue to stand by your conference will begin shortly.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Hi operator. This is Vas. We are back.
Operator
Thank you sir. You are live.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So, I think I'll just step back operator to one slide previously. So when I talked about moving to first
on Scemblix, which would be on Slide 14. We continued to see strong launch momentum where
we have Q3 sales driven in part by -- Q3 sales were $41 million and we had a 13% patient share in
the third line setting. NBRx share is at 39%. And overall, we expect Scemblix, the critical element
now will be moving forward our ability to move into the earlier lines. The study is enrolling ahead
of plan and we will provide further updates, but right now we forecast the second half 2024
outlook for Scemblix.
Now turning you to some of the clinical data we had in the quarter. Cosentyx, we had previously
top-lined our data, 16-week data in hidradenitis suppurativa. Now, we have the 52-week data in-
house, and just to remind everyone that it's a high unmet need, patient population, one of the
more common dermatological conditions that dermatologists see. 95% of eligible patients are
not on a biologic today. And 50% of biologic treated patients lose the response over time. So,
there's definitely a need for a better therapy that can sustain its efficacy over time.
With the SUNSHINE and SUNRISE data set, we were able to collect data both at the 16 week and
52 weeks' time period. We've already demonstrated data that showed a rapid relief from pain
flares and lesion. But now we have data in-house that suggests that we have a unique benefit to
sustain the response over 52 weeks, along with a favorable safety profile. So we'll look forward
to sharing that data. We have filed, as I mentioned already, with the regulators. And overall, we're
hopeful that this can be a key growth driver for Cosentyx over the coming years.
Moving to the next slide. Earlier this week, we announced the release of the Iptacopan Phase 3
data in PNH. And this is a medicine, we believe, can become a pipeline in a pill overtime with a
range of indications we're currently developing the medicine for. As a reminder, we are in --
we've readout the PNH Phase 3 with an additional Phase 3 upcoming the APPOINT-PNH study.
We're in Phase 3 studies in IgAN, C3G and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome. And we have a
range of additional indications currently ongoing. As a reminder, the APPLY-PNH study related to
the treatment of patients who had refractory anemia, after treatment with an anti-C5 and the
APPOINT study is in treatment naive patients as anti-C5 antibody is also expected to readout in
2022.
Now looking on the next slide, Slide 17, to the APPLY-PNH study specifically. This is a study, as I
mentioned, patients were on C5 therapy for up to eight weeks. They then switched to -- if they
had refractory anemia that demonstrated hemoglobin levels of less than 10 grams per deciliter,
they were randomized to either receive Iptacopan or an anti-C5 therapy for 24 weeks. And after
that period of time, they would continue on the Iptacopan for the extension period.We demonstrated superiority for both endpoints, and I would say clinically meaningful superiority
on both endpoints in terms of proportion of patients at greater than 2 grams and greater than 12
grams per DL. We have submitted this data or plan to submit this data to an upcoming medical
congress, where we would share not only the magnitude of the effect in the primary endpoints,
but also secondary endpoints which cover secondary endpoints including transfusion
independence, quality of life, overall response rate, as well as other measures.
So moving to the next slide. Just as a reminder, our goal with this medicine is to be a first-line
therapy for all patients with PNH. And that is a positioning that we plan to achieve both through
our labeling and through the launch process.10 to 20 cases per million is the current estimate of
PNH with a current prevalence in the United States of 4,000 to 6,000. In the population of the
current study that we just read out, about 40% of patients remain anemic with hemoglobin less
than 10 grams per deciliter on anti-C5 therapies.
It's also worth noting that a higher proportion of patients have some level anemia, some level of
fatigue, or other clinical manifestations of the disease. So, the unmet need is significant even in
the case of anti-C5 treatments and 50% of patients -- of these patients receive transfusion. We
believe Iptacopan presents unique opportunity to address both intra and extravascular hemolysis,
potential for lower transfusion requirements, and improvements in the quality of life. We think the
oral administration in this setting makes a lot of sense, and then we can talk more about that in
the Q&A. And we believe that this -- there is a potential for this medicine have a broad first-line
label.
So, moving to the next slide. Lastly, before handing it over to Harry, Sandoz delivered another
solid quarter of growth. And you can see the growth rate here where we once again had a 4%
sales growth. This was driven in part by Europe, but particularly by our performance in the rest of
world markets where we had double-digit growth. This is the fourth consecutive quarter of solid
top-line growth for Sandoz despite having to overcome the impact of Russia and Ukraine, and
absorbing inflation and other headwinds.
We've revised the full-year guidance upwards, and Harry will speak more about that. And we want
to just remind again that biosimilars are the key to future growth driver of the business. We had
the file acceptance of adalimumab high concentration and natalizumab in the quarter, as well as a
positive Phase 3 result for denosumab as well from the biosimilars unit. So, with that, I will -- and
we're on track, I should say, as well for the spin -- planned spin in the second half of next year.
So with that, I'll hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thank you, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. I'm now going to walk you
through some of the financials for the third quarter and the first nine months of the year. And as
always, my comments refer to growth rates and constant currencies. This is, of course, particularly
important given the significant currency fluctuations we all see. And so, we believe it offers a
better view of the underlying operational performance.
On Slide 21, this shows the usual summary of our operational performance for a third quarter, the
first nine months. We have also provided growth rates with and without the impact of the prior-
year Roche income to allow a better understanding of the underlying business. As you can see,
we maintained our growth momentum in the quarter with quarter three sales growing plus 4%
and core operating income plus 5%. Sales growth driven by our major innovative medicines
brands, in particular Entresto, Kasimpta and Kisqali.Higher sales were also reflected in higher core operating income growth. And inflationary
headwinds have been offset by productivity efforts. Operating and net income declined in the
quarter mainly due to higher impairments of about $0.5 billion and higher restructuring cost of
about $0.4 billion versus prior year, which were mainly due to the implementation of our
previously announced streamlined organizational model.
Core EPS grew 1%. However, if you exclude the impact of the prior year Roche income, core EPS
would have grown 10%. Free cash flow in the quarter was strong with $4.2 billion, but declined 6%
in U.S. dollars versus prior year, with a significant impact from currencies. Turning through the first
nine month, we delivered a slightly stronger growth year-to-date with sales growing 5% and core
operating income growing 6%. Core EPS in the first nine months grew 11%, excluding the Roche
stake income impact.
On the next slide, I would like to drill down, as usual, into the performance by division. So for Q3,
Innovative Medicines' top-line grew 4% and the bottom-line 7%, resulting in an improvement of
the core margin of 100 basis points to 38.1%. Sandoz nets sales also grew 4%, although core
cooperating income decreased 5%, mainly due to increased M&S investments versus a quite low
prior-year base, and prior years more divestment gains. This was reflected the core margin which
decreased to approximately 22% of sales, which is also aligned with the year-to-date core margin
for Sandoz.
Overall, for the first nine months, we saw a slightly stronger sales performance for both divisions.
IM sales grew 5% and core operating income 6%. And for Sandoz, sales grew 6% and 5% on the
bottom-line, benefiting from a strong cough and cold season, return to its normal business
dynamics, and a low prior year base in the first half of the year. Our year-to-date core margin
improved by 50 basis points for IM, which drove then also the 50 basis points improvements for
the group.
Now, onto Slide 23. On the next slide, a reminder of the cost impact of simplified organizational
model. We continued to expect to deliver $1.5 billion in structural costs savings to be fully
embedded by 2024. And as a reminder, we also expect one-time restructuring cost to be 1x to
1.2x this annual structured savings. And for year-to-date, this year we have around $0.8 billion in
restructuring cost related to the new streamline model, and expect approximately a total of $1
billion for the full year of restructuring cost on this topic. The rest of the one-time restructuring
cost we anticipate will largely fall into 2023.
This year, we do expect to see some savings. As you can see here illustrative on the chart, but
the overall impact will be minimal as this will offset higher energy cost inflationary pressures. All of
these elements are, of course, part of our 2022 guidance. As a reminder, part of the $1.5 billion
savings we expect to be reinvested into our pipeline, and a significant part will contribute to
achieve our approximately 40% plus margin target in 2027 plus time-frame.
Now, turning to Page 24. Within the divisions, we expect Innovative Medicines sales growing mid-
single-digits and co-operating income growing mid to high-single-digits ahead of sales. The
anticipated Innovative Medicines' core margin increase should be driven by the expected
continued good top-line momentum and the continuation of our productivity programs, including
the new streamlined organization model.
For Sandoz, the performance year-to-date allows us to upgrade sales and core operating income
guidance. And sales are now expected to grow low to mid-single-digit, revised upward from low-
single-digit. And core operating income is now expected to grow low-single-digit, revised upward
from broadly in line.For the group, we confirm our overall guidance. We continue to expect both top and bottom-line
to grow mid-single-digit in 2022. And as you have seen from our year-to-date results, we are
quite on-track, very much on track to deliver on that guidance. The key assumption for this
guidance is that we see continuing return to normal global prescribing behaviors healthcare
systems, and that no Sandostatin LAR generics would enter the U.S. in 2022. The guide also takes
into account the entry of Gilenya generics that have now launched in the U.S. For your information,
Gilenya U.S. sales in quarter three were $326 million.
On Slide 25, I would like to provide an update on the other key financial elements of our
expected coordinate income performance. As indicated on the Q2 call, we expect core net
financial expenses to be slightly lower than in 2021, around $100 million to $150 million favorable
versus 2021, revised from broadly in line versus 2021. And this change is mainly due to the higher
financial income from reinvesting the proceeds of the Roche divestment and increased interest
income for deposits. And the 2022 core tax rate is now expected to be around 16.5%, revised
from the 17% to 17.5% range. This is mainly driven by favorable change in the geographical profit
mix.
On Slide 26, I want to provide an update on expected currency impacts of currency staying at
current levels. Obviously, currency impacts are significant this year, given the strength in U.S. dollar
against many, if not all currencies. For quarter four, if currencies stay as they are now, we expect
sales to be impacted by negative 9 percent and core operating income by negative 11 percent
points. For the full year, we estimate the impact on the top-line to be negative 7 points, and the
bottom-line negative 8 points. Now, in to '23 we would expect the sales to be impacted by a
negative 4 points, and the bottom-line negative 5 percent towards 2022. As a reminder, if
currencies move quiet dynamically, we update currency impacts every month on our website.
And with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So moving to Slide 28. Just as a reminder, at our recent meet with the
management, we articulated our New Novartis strategy, high-value medicines, greatest disease
burdens through technology, leadership in R&D and novel access approaches. A focused
therapeutic area mindset across five core therapeutic areas, two plus three technology platforms
and four priority geographies. And a renewed focus on high-value medicines, not necessarily
volume of medicines but delivering truly high-value medicines, along with the other elements of
our strategy on delivering returns in strengthening the foundations.
And translating that into this year's priorities, on to Slide 29, we continue to maintain our growth
momentum and we confirm our 2022 guidance. Our top '22 priority is to remain on track across
launches and growth momentum on our six key brands. The pipeline is progressing per plan. I
think the focused strategy, as I mentioned, has been executed against and we're on track with
the spin of Sandoz planned for next year. We continue our productivity plans through our new
organizational model, delivering $1.5 billion of additional savings. And we continue to strengthen
the foundations of the company, culture driving performance, data science to drive value, and
working towards ESG leadership.
So with that, I will open the line for questions. I would ask that questioners please limit yourself to
one question, and then we'll try to move through the queue as many rounds as we can in the call.
Thank you.
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question. And your first question
comes from Graham Perry from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America `
Hey. Thanks for taking the question. So, it's on Pluvicto, so a very strong launch. Obviously, that's
not inventory because you can't build inventory on Pluvicto. So, I was wondering, actually has this
caused any capacity constraints given you're only supplying from the Italian facility at the
moment? And therefore, could we expect actually sales to flatten per quarter until you see new
capacity come online? And if you could just give us an update on the timing of the New Jersey
and Indianapolis plants next year, are they still second quarter in the second half? Anything you
can do to bring those online faster? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. So with respect to Pluvicto, we're able to supply the U.S. demand across
the 150 -- 125-plus centers now we have currently set up, and we would expect demand growth
to continue in quarter four, so we're able to make that supply. What's critical for us is, as we move
into the period where we hope to have a positive readout in the earlier line with PSMAfore study,
we would need additional capacity to be able to serve that earlier large indication. Right now, we
hope to be able to file the Millburn facility back to the Pluvicto file before the end of this year, and
hope to have that online in the first part of next year. And we were on track for the Indianapolis
facility to come online in the middle of next year.
So, once the Millburn facility comes online, we've invested in that facility to have additional
capacity. We would be well-positioned already for that new indication in the demand surge. And
then once Indianapolis comes online, we would be in a position where we can service the U.S.
from two manufacturing plants in the U.S., dedicate our European facilities to Europe and ex-U.S.
And then look at adding additional capacity in Asia and other markets over time.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations `
Thank you, Graham. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. Can I just ask about Zolgensma, please? So
some of your commentary, Vas, now suggests you've penetrated a large part of the bolus pool,
and is really about the incidence population moving forward. I think it's probably fair to say, please
correct me if not, previously the $2 billion peak sales guide ex the intrathecal was a fair estimate.
Vas, you're now saying $1.5 billion to $2 billion. So, I just wanted to be clear, is that a change in
expectations? And particularly given, are we going to get close to $1.5 billion this year alone? And
then just maybe you mentioned Brazil, which are key countries? And maybe some timing on
those countries would be great. Thank you.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. So the dynamics on Zolgensma, as you all well know, we'll just go through them,
is that as we add markets we initially penetrate a bolus of patients in the under two age group.
And then we move back to the incident patient population. And in the incident patient population,
the demand is driven by expanding the new-born screening, particularly outside of the United
States.
Right now, the key for us is to add those additional markets. So those markets range from Saudi
Arabia and Brazil, to Turkey and India. So there's a number of markets, another market around
the world where we're currently in active negotiation. And our hope is, by adding those markets
online, we will be able to build that overall pool, not only of prevalent patients, which will increase
sales for a period of time, but also build up the base of incident patients, who are receiving
Zolgensma on an ongoing basis.
I think as we now look at the trajectory, we're ranging just because we -- it's hard for us to predict
exactly as we've learned more when exactly these markets will come online. So we think it's
prudent to say $1.5 billion to $2 billion. We certainly have the aspiration to get to $2 billion, but it's
going to depend on how many more markets we're actually able to get onto national programs.
And of course, our teams are working very hard to do that.
We're currently enrolling the intrathecal indication for 2 to 18 year olds, as I mentioned, both to
generate additional data for IV, where we do have a broader label in certain markets including the
EU, up to 5 years of age. We want to generate additional data for the IV, and the pivotal study in
2 to 18 year olds. And we remain on track, we hope, to have that filing in 2024 and then approved
in the first part of 2025. And that would give us the momentum to make the medicine beyond $2
billion over time. And I think we'll have a better sense of how large it could be depending on the
magnitude of the effect we see in those indications.
Thanks for the question, Wimal. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas, BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just a question on Iptacopan and PNH. You've outlined the data
for us on measures of extravascular hemolysis, but I wondered if you could give us any indication
on how data on measures of intravascular hemolysis such as LDH and rate of breakthrough
hemolysis were trending, I know you'll present the data, but just wondering if you've got
confidence, there's at least no deterioration in those measures when switching from standard of
care. And maybe you could just give us a sense of how you think about the launch of taking that
indication given we have standard of care with long-term outcomes data beyond control of
anemia? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. So first I think it's worth remembering that in the Phase 2b dataset for
Iptacopan, and Iptacopan demonstrated strong LDH lowering and a very favorable safety profile
also with respect to breakthrough hemolysis. Given that we are in the midst of filing this data or
submitting this data for Congress, I don't want to (Technical Difficulty) update on this secondaryendpoints, we'll present all of that as soon as possible in upcoming medical meeting. But we feel
very confident about the overall safety profile of Iptacopan with respect to the various other
elements that one would want to measure across intravascular and extravascular hemolysis.
Importantly as well, what will be important is an upcoming data set in the frontline setting in
treatment-naive patients to demonstrate that the profile holds up. Taken together, based on
everything that we've seen thus far, our aspiration remains to be a medicine that can be used in
naive patients, in patient -- to switch patients off of anti-C5 on to what we believe could be a
more beneficial therapy. And then, if desired, can also be used as an add-on therapy to really
cover the full range of potential indications with this medicine, a twice a day oral medicine that we
think can be really an attractive option, not only in the U.S. but also when you consider that half of
the PNH market, and it's currently in ex-U.S. market, a twice a day oral could be highly, highly
attractive. So all things to work through, look forward to presenting the data in more detail shortly.
Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question. Perhaps you could take one on for Leqvio. We don't seem to
see much of an impact from the 1st of July J Code award. So, just your respective on how things
are trending? And confidence of what actually drives that mid '23 inflection? Is there something
that in your view is going to capitalize step change in the middle next year? Was it more really
built through the course of 2023? Any confidence that we'll still get the blockbuster status pre-
outcomes later in '26? Many thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Emmanuel. The key here is to get enough physicians who have gone through the
process of getting a patient on therapy, both and seeing the LDL reduction after the first and
second dose, second dose is at a three-month time point and having successfully been
reimbursed in the Part B program. When those things happen, we see physicians -- 80% plus of
physicians, at least the we've internally surveyed, have a positive experience, both from a clinical
standpoint and from a Part B reimbursement standpoint, regardless of whether they used an
alternative injection center or use their own clinic.
So that's all the positive data that we have, but we need to move physicians through that
process. So the reason we highlight 4,000 physicians now have initiated, shows that we have that
kind of -- in the early part of the funnel physicians moving through the process, they probably
trialed few patients. We now have to get them through that entire process, and if they
presumably have that positive overall experience, they will add additional patients onto the
therapy. And so this is going to be a build. But as we build that base, we hope them to convert
entire practices over to using Leqvio over time. And that would hopefully then lead to a
compounding effect and then acceleration. Overall, we remain confident that we will get to the
blockbuster status ahead of outcome of this data, that's for certain. And a lot of work to do, but it
absolutely remains our goal.
Thanks, Emmanuel. Next question, operator?
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse `
Thanks very much. I'm going to follow on with Emmanuel's question, again, touching on Leqvio.
So, Vas, as you pointed out, a marked inflection not until 18 months into launch. As I recall going
back to Diovan and Entresto, I thought they took four years to breakeven as products. And now
we have the risk of the IRA potentially limiting small molecule life to nine years. Can you just lay
out whether or not you feel that Leqvio will breakeven before that four-year level we saw with
large cardiovascular medicines? And if so, why?
And then, I guess, the other question is whether having invested so heavily in buy-and-bill, are
there other cardiovascular assets that you hope to bring onboard or have in the pipeline that you
can put through the similar channel to give doctors the comfort that investing in all the practice
infrastructure isn't just a single product with Leqvio, but there's a stream of products that they can
capitalize on?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Matthew. So first on the payback period, I'll have Harry comment, and I'll come back
in the second part of your question.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Matthew. I think we -- as we discussed before, these cardiovascular launch, in my experience,
like GP primary care launches, I mean, of course, all of them are different depending on the
product and the category and so on. But in my experience, usually then the breakeven happens
roughly in year four, plus-minus. Why? It's of course high price specialty launches, sometimes they
have breakeven year one or at least year two. So, clearly, 9 years versus 13 years is not a positive,
right, that's why I think obviously there will be initiatives to move those two closer to the 13 years,
both of them. But at the moment it's nine years. But of course, in any of these launches, one
wants to have the uptake to be as fast as possible, just cardiovascular is slow. And I would expect
then usually breakeven in year four.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, Matthew, in terms of having -- it is on our mind to build a broader portfolio of medicine, so
both in-house we have efforts ongoing both in terms of lifecycle management of Leqvio as well
as other novel therapeutics, which are still moving through the research pathway or research labs
to try to accelerate now to make sure we have a stream of medicines. I also say broadly in the
industry, there are other medicines as well that, I think, could also fit in terms into the buy-and-bill
model.
But on a standalone basis, for most practices that we've analyzed, the number of cholesterol
patients in our practice, it is favorable for cardiologists once they have this setup, and have it
moving to do it just for Leqvio. So, I think it's an important point that it's not a requirement that
you have multiple medicines, even this one medicine alone, where you have also the certainty
that you know the patient is on therapy, you see the result on the cholesterol-lowering, highly
attractive from that point clinically. And also the practice has the cost reimbursement elements as
well. It's pretty attractive we find with most practices that have gone through the process.So, we'll not only focus on Leqvio but also build a pipeline behind it. And as Harry mentioned, I
think our top priority has to be to ensure small molecules and related technologies are not
penalized relative to large molecules. So that of course will take time to shape public policy.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mathew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Redburn of Redburn. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
Thank you for taking my question. At the risk of being boring, I'm going to follow Matthew and
Emmanuel on Leqvio. It sounds -- just got on this your expectation of a linear trend to the middle
of next year. With the two drivers of more doctors being set up to administer the drug and more
patients per physician, I mean, that does sound a little conservative, because I mean that in itself
should -- if both of those are increasing that should drive more than linear growth. So just trying to
understand a little bit more about that.
And also related to that, you are running a D2C campaign, with two adverts at the moment in the
U.S. for Leqvio. Do you have any sense of how patient demand is exceeding the billing
capabilities of physicians at the moment? It's not really a case of unfilled script but unsatisfied
patient demand. Is there any indication can give us on that? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Simon. I think on the first question, I think it's just -- we've learned over the years, it's
prudent on cardiovascular launches to be appropriately cautious until we see evidence that in the
sales line we see a trend break. And I think at the moment, all of the inputs look positive, as you
say. We have a number of physicians that we have -- that have initiated some action on Leqvio,
the feedback we get from physicians going through the process.
We're starting to see improvements, but we'd like to see more improvements in depth for
practice that are on -- that are using Leqvio already. So, all of the things are in the right direction.
The reimbursement is at higher levels than PCSK9 achieved in year five. We've said high levels of
patients don't have to pay any co-pay to access the medicine. So, again, all in the right direction.
But I think we would feel better if we actually saw a trend break before we start promising
anything bigger than a linear trend. So, that's kind of our mindset at the moment. And if it
happens that would be terrific and we of course share that with all of you as soon as it does.
We do have a very active DTC campaign to activate patients on the benefits of a twice-a-year
therapy, that can deliver up to 60% lowering on LDL Cholesterol. And we do see the beginnings
of increased patient demand. I would note that, actually, we don't see capacity as an issue
because we are able to use the AIC networks, which are continuing to expand to absorb any
excess patient volume. So, if a practice is not able to set up buy-and-bill immediately, we're able
to educate practices about AICs, which are available in the community that are set up. And we'veworked very closely with that expanding network of alternative injection centers to make like
Leqvio available.
One of the things we've learned that we need to get much smoother at is that transition of
helping a practice and send the patient to the AIC and then back to the practice. We're working
on smoothing that out. But that AIC creates a pretty big surge capacity. But what we do hear from
practices in general is, over time, they would like to set up the buy-and-bill capacity within their
own practice. It's just a matter of, can they do that immediately or would they like to do that in the
future.
Thanks Simon. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Wagner, Wolfe Research `
Hi, this is `Richard Wagner, Wolfe Research on behalf of Tim, with Wolfe Research. Thanks for the question. It's
about Cosentyx, and could we get an update on the competitive landscape in the U.S. as Abbvie
works to lock in formulary positioning for its various INI products in 2023 onwards, as Humira
biosimilars approach. What would be the impact or could be the impact on net pricing and
formulary placement? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Richard. And when you look at the Cosentyx, we're still in the midst of the formulary
negotiations at this time. But our best belief in indication given that formularies want to have an
IL17 A on available for patients that will be able to maintain our formulary position, a roughly
equivalent position in terms of our gross to net, as we have this year.
I think looking forward what will be absolutely critical for us to continue Cosentyx's growth
dynamics and really maximize the medicine is the approval of additional indications in hidradenitis.
We have the IV indication as well, as I mentioned. We plan to file -- we have a 2 milligram syringe,
which we are also in the midst of filing. Those would be the next big three. And then beyond that
indications, as I mentioned, giant cell arteritis, tendinitis, amongst others. That's going to be the
next wave we're going to need to maintain a strong position on formularies, but also to enable
the brand to continue to grow. But for 2023, based on our negotiations to-date and reviews
we've had with our advantage markets teams, we feel comfortable with where we'll be on
formularies for next year.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Cowen from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen `
Thank you so much. First an observation then a question. So the observation is that, in response
to the Pluvicto question, it makes it sound as though Q4 sales will be appreciably above Q3. And I
guess, you must have some visibility since Q4 is about a third over already. The question is, Vas,
in the past you have been cautious on the use of A beta antibodies for the treatment ofAlzheimer's disease. Given recent news, do you have any reason to change your view? And if yes,
then how will Novartis gain a position in A beta antibodies or some other approach in
Alzheimer's? Thank you so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Steve. On A beta antibodies, I think what's most important, particularly given the
amount of investment that would need to be made by healthcare systems for therapies, and we
of course are active in Alzheimer's disease research, is the benefit that we're seeing not only
statistically significant but clinically meaningful. And I think with the various measures that are
currently used, it's hard to judge what is clinically meaningful ultimately for a patient. And I think
that's going to be the question for payers, advisors, et cetera, in the U.S. markets. Is this clinically
meaningful enough a very -- the 0.4 or 0.45 or whatever the number is on the AVIS, ICAGA [ph]
scores.
So, I think we'll have to see, that will be for others to judge. Our focus is on other mechanisms of
action. I mean, we think -- we don't know what, but certainly our labs are working on other
approaches across the full range of neurodegenerative diseases, where we have programs in
the clinic as you know on Huntington's and Parkinson's, and continue to also look at various
targets in Alzheimer's. But I wouldn't expect us to take any action on A beta. And none of the
data that I've seen thus far would trigger us to make the shift at this point in time.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Hi. Thanks for your question. For Harry. Just looking at UNR844 termination, that product that you
acquired by the Encore Vision acquisition. Was there an asset impairment taken in the quarter?
And if not, is that coming next quarter? And if you can quantify how big that might be? Thank you.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thank you, Kerry. Actually, the majority of our impairment recorded in quarter three UNR, the
potential presbyopia drops of roughly net impact of $0.5 billion. So we immediately -- when we
stop a program we immediately book it, so that has happened in the quarter three.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Kerry. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Maybe we could talk about NATALEE, and maybe you could give
us an update where we are in terms of the interim analyses? Is it still the case that the 70%interim should be expected at the end of the year? And then, of course, the final analysis within
the second half of next year? Just some thoughts there would be great. Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. So, we continue to expect the first interim to read out before the end of
this year. But we have not heard back from the DMC at this point in time. And our approach will
be that if the DMC advises us to make a change, we will let the markets know. And if you don't
hear from us, that means the DMC told us that the study should continue as planned. We expect
the second interim to happen in the first half of next year and the final study should complete at
the second half of next year.
Another study -- another question that often comes up is related to how we'll approach OS in
these various settings? The FDA has confirmed to us that as long as there is no detriment to OS
at any of these time points, that would be sufficient for them to consider the data set as pivotal
for a potential approval.
Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just on MS. On Gilenya, I know your prior guidance assume no
launches in the U.S., so good to maintain that. Just the impact on core operating margins, should
we think of that as a pretty straight drop-down given that's probably a pretty high-margin
product? And then just on Kasimpta, your share assumptions in the class going forward, do you
expect those to be impacted by the potential launch of the subcutaneous injection [ph]? Thank
you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So first on Gilenya, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Emily. Yes, it is a very high launch. It's a very high gross margin product. There's
some royalty on it but it's, of course, also small molecule, high-priced. So, the product margin is
quite high. As you can imagine, at the end of the life cycle there's not much MNS on it, so it's
pretty much a straight drop down to the bottom-line. But of course, we have mitigating actions,
productivity plants and it's fully embedded in our guidance this year.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then with respect to Kasimpta. Kasimpta has really been successful as a first-line first-switch
medicine in the neurology settings that are not currently participating in infusions -- as infusions as
is the case with our competitor's product. I think, first, we need to see if a high dose subcu can be
delivered without any sort of reactions and other complications, I don't think that's a given. I
mean, of course, data will have to bear that out.And then it's worth remembering, our positioning will be for patients who want a monthly
injection at home and don't want to go into the infusion center. Clearly, the subcu might reduce
the time of the infusion center, but there remains to be seen how will steroid pre-treatment need
to be happened, as it will need to be continued to be IV, is it sufficient for it to be oral? What kind
of monitoring requirements FDA will require?
So, I think it still remains that there's a segment of the market that we'll want to use IV infusion or
subcu infusion therapies. And there's a segment where Novartis and Kesimpta we hope to
become the clear leader amongst patients first class -- first treatment or first switch, who want a
very convenient at-home, highly safe, high efficacious B cell therapy, and that's our focus.
And Harry has some points.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Just Emily, a follow-on clarification also on Gilenya. I mentioned that this is fully in our
guidance for 2022. And I just want to mention also that this has on our mid to long-term guidance.
Now, prior to this turn of the U.S. courts, if you will, we were expecting to lose U.S. exclusivity, if
you will, of generic entries in the middle of '24 roughly, right. From that standpoint, our 40% plus
margin goal in 2027-plus was already fully assuming that generics would have ended several
years before that.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Harry. And so, we still have a number of questions in the queue, if we could just
remind everyone to ask one question per, and we'll try to get to as many questions as we can.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, thank you for taking my questions. Vas, you mentioned that you would like Iptacopan to be the
therapy of choice kind of in the frontline setting. What data do you think you would need to see
kind of from the frontline study to allow for Iptacopan to be in that position given the head start
that the Alexion products already have in that market? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Keyur. I think what will be important is, if we can demonstrate we can generate clear
control of the disease, and of course across the various parameters LDH, safety, et cetera, that
we have a compelling profile. I think when you look broadly, first, if you think first principles of
biology of this disease, this is an alternative complement pathway driven disease. And factor B is
a relatively unique component of this, and that it's not as abundant as C3 and C5. And an oral
agent can get both to extravascular and intravascular sources of factor B, and inhibit those. And
those include tissues that go beyond the liver, which is important consideration when you
consider AOSs and siRNA. In oral therapy, it presents then a unique profile and being reached the
full broad range of tissues.
So, overall, we think factor B for these alternative complement-driven diseases, including PNH, is
an ideal target. And overall, the PK/PD we see for this medicine, the preclinical and clinical safetywe see has been very good. That's been born out now in the APPLY-PNH study that we've
already headlined, and we hope to continue to see that in the front-line study, and then next year
in C3G in particular, but also in IgAN. And then in other alternative complement pathway driven
diseases, including A who's called a gluten disease, MC, PGN. So there's a range of diseases
where we believe the medicine is well-suited, and I think we're excited that the medicine is. So far
in its first pivotal readout born out of the clinical and preclinical hypotheses that we set forward.
So we'll look forward to providing the data in an upcoming medical congress, as I outlined. And
then the second study as well we'll read out before the end of this year.
Thank you, Keyur. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead. Your line is ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah. Thank you for taking my question. First, just returning to NATALEE, the interim analysis. Is
that based on all comers? Or do you need to see a significant benefit specifically in the
intermediate-risk patients switch maybe, I guess, as low as 25%, 30% of the events? Thanks very
much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, Mark, I think it's important to note that we're looking at both Grade 2 and Grade 3
patients in the study. And the way we're powered is across the entire population. And we've
realized that powering many times now and we feel very comfortable based on the study design
and what we've seen from other competitors. And the fact that we're powered up by 1,000
additional patients. And so, the result -- the IDFS results will be based on the overall population
and that's how the endpoints are designed.
As a separate point, and just to be clear, the FDA can at any point in time decide that they want
to take cuts between Stage 2 and Stage 3 patients. But our focus for our primary analysis is Stage
2a and Stage 2b and Stage 3 patients as defined in the protocol, and the end point will be driven
off of that entire patient population.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
That's very clear. Thank you.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities, Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities `
Well, thanks for the question. So, I guess, just one quick question just on Leqvio. Can you just helpfrom existing PCSK9 therapy or is this a new patient pool? And then just very quickly second
question, Vas, as we look towards potential business development becoming increasingly critical
as the years progress, just wondering where your particular focus is given the commentary
around primary care cardiovascular product launches and the ability to launch into those
efficiently? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks Seamus. So first on Leqvio source of business. Just as a reminder, the target patient
population in the U.S. is 18 million patients across all of the core markets, EU plus the top markets
around the world, there's around 70 million patients. These are patients who have had a prior
cardiovascular event and are not reaching 70 milligrams per deciliter on their LDL score, and that
is the guideline-directed that is the goal. So it's a big, big patient population.
Right now I think what we can say is that the primary prescribers that we see are prescribers who
also have experienced the PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies. That could be low experience, it could
be high experience. Harder for us to say given that this is a part B medicine, the source of
business from a patient standpoint. But I presume then, we're either getting switch patients on
PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies, or we're at least getting a broader share of physicians that are
open to the PCSK9 class.
And so our focus right now is to really say, how can we get broad adoption within, let's call it,
PCSK9-minded physicians. And then over time, try to expand further and further through our work
with systems of care, population, health agreements, et cetera, into the broader patient
population of 18 million patients. Clearly, we don't need that big a share of that 18 million patients
to reach our overall financial goals. From a public health standpoint, we would of course want to
reach to as many of those patients as possible, because right now the odds of a patient having a
subsequent event go up quite dramatically if they're not at that 70 goal. So that's kind of overall
how we approach it.
There's no updates with respect to M&A and BD, we continue to focus on let's call them sub $3
billion, $4 billion M&A deals. A broad range of licensing opportunities, focused primarily on
science, and does the science work, is it fitting in our course therapeutic areas, does it fit in our
two plus three technology areas as we've outlined at the meet of the management. And we
continue to assess that -- if we find something that's attractive where we have a differentiated
view that would justify the premium and generate, we believe, value creation for our
shareholders, we'll of course pursue it.
Other than that, we're also willing to be patient. We believe in our pipeline, we believe with our
new leadership within R&D and the addition of a strategy and growth officer. We can unlock the
full potential of Novartis research and development and then have a steady stream of medicines
going forward. And so, we're going to remain disciplined as we move ahead.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Societe Generale `Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick one on China, please. As
China is a key country for you, could you please elaborate on the dynamic there for your key
products? And if there is any, let's say, impact from lockdown? And could you refresh our
memories and please remind us the current contribution and your ambition on this country?
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, with respect to -- thanks Florent. For China we've outlined our aspiration to become a top
three player by 2024, which would be a player that exceeds $4 billion in sales in the market.
We've had really a record performance in terms of but number of approvals over recent years.
And then also moving forward, I think we lead the industry as well in terms of NRDL listings. Key
drivers for us has been our oncology portfolio, Entresto, Cosentyx, Lucentis, amongst others.
Now, we were growing in the high teens from a sales growth standpoint before the lockdowns.
And I think in the lockdown we continue to grow, but we're growing more in the high-single-digit
frame at the moment. And we would expect that to continue until we would see a shift in the
overall ability for patients to access medical care in more normal dynamics. That's part of the
reason why you see the slowdown in Cosentyx that we saw. With Entresto, given the strength of
our overall performance globally, it doesn't really move the needle on that particular brand. So,
the key brand that has an impact is Cosentyx, and just a smaller extent of some of the other
brands.
Nonetheless, we continue to believe, given that there's over 1 billion patients -- 1 billion people
we can serve with our portfolio of medicines, we have to continue to find ways to continue to
reach patients in the framework that is currently in place. And then also be ready that if there's a
further opening up to continue to expand our growth in the market. And importantly, we believe,
Leqvio and some of our other medicines, Pluvicto, Leqvio amongst others, could be significant
medicines in China over time.
Next question, operator? Thank you, Florent.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Thank you. A question on the IRA impact on catastrophic coverage and the burden on PBMs and
managed care. A significant part of Kisqali goes through the Medicare channel, Ibrance seems to
be available at a much lower price post-generization. To what extent, excuse me, do you see
deflation of the prices for Kisqali within the Medicare segment, because there'll be prioritization
step edits within Medicare prior to gaining access to Kisqali? And do you see any risk of spillover
of that assuming that thesis is correct to the commercial book of business? Many thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
That's a good question, Andrew. I think in general I'd say, we're doing a lot of scenario planning
on how the IRA could impact various brands. And I think certainly on our minds is how the
increased exposure, PBMs in the catastrophic, how that will get transferred or translated intoactions against some of our medicines. I think the key for us to differentiate versus a generic in a
class, like in the CDK4/6 will be having a broader indication -- set of indications relative to the
existing medicine.
So, I think that's going to be absolutely critical for us in this class to hopefully have the opportunity
to expand into, as I mentioned, earlier Stage 2a and Stage 2b and Stage 3 patients. Otherwise I
think there could certainly be spillover from -- in the metastatic setting, if there aren't broad
indications for the other two players. So we'll have to see how this plays out. I would also say, in
general, in some of these cancer classes such as the CDK4/6, you do see contracting and you do
see the opportunity for commercial insurers to get rebates from branded product. So that would
be the, I think, tension there in the system as they would have to give up their commercial
rebates to potentially utilize the generic. So, we'll have to see ultimately how all of this plays out.
Thank you, Andrew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Jefferies from Jeffries. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies `
Hi. Thank you. I just wanted to return to Pluvicto. I wonder if you could give us any more color at all
in the sense that you're currently using it for these generally academic centers, these generally
centers that are using widely radiation oncologist, or is it more nuclear medicine physicians? And
particularly with regards to then the diagnostic, just wondering, is it largely using your own local
vets? Or are you seeing use of other diagnostics before treatment? And is that potentially a
source of revenue for you in the future, the diagnostic, or should we think of this as largely a wash
for Novartis, with the focus being the therapy?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Peter. Overall, I'd say, it's a mix. You have high academic centers, you also have
large-scale centers which are, in the case of prostate cancer, a combination of urology and
nuclear medicine working in conjunction with medical oncology. We see that in some very large
centers. And then we also see some nuclear radiology as well. That's -- and we generally are
focused right now on larger volume centers in this first phase of launch.
I would note that if we were able to open it up even further in terms of the number of centers,
we would expect even higher volumes for this medicine given the overall demand that we're
seeing. But we're taking it stepwise, making sure we can service this first level of centers
absolutely fully. And now we're in the process of adding additional centers step by step.
So it's a very different situation than with Lutathera, where because of the lower volumes and
also neuroendocrine tumors being treated by certain specialists, there's a very -- relatively limited
number of centers that we're interested. Whereas here we have more demand from centers,
and then within the centers we're in, very high demand that we're seeing at the moment. So,
those are all the dynamics we're seeing. Overall, I would say, from a diagnostic standpoint, there
is of course a preference for gallium. Though we do see other PET ligands also use. We wouldn't
view our local meds business as a driver for Novartis or something that can materially impact. It's
kind of -- as you said, it's kind of a wash. It's much more about identifying patients. One of the
dynamics, however, that's very important to understand.As you think about Pluvicto across all lines of metastatic prostate cancer with the PSMAfore study
that still needs to read out, it's the broadening use of PET imaging for identifying patients who
have an elevated PSA, and to determine the extent of the metastasis for their cancer. That is a
dynamic that works very much in the favor of Pluvicto, because if you identify these patients
through the PET ligand, you're more likely to use a radio ligand because you've seen the tumor,
and now you know the therapy can target what you see. And that's I think an important dynamic
for the brand in the long run.
Operator
Please switch to the backup feeds. Please continue to stand by. (Operator Instructions). Hello,
again you are live again.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations `
Yes. Sorry, I don't know what's going on today. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Please stand by. Your next question comes from the line of `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein from
Bernstein. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you for the second question. Vas, you mentioned oral being quite important for
Iptacopan. I'm just curious how you think about the issue of adherence with an oral therapy in the
real-world setting. And then maybe you could talk here about the potential for breakthrough
hemolysis, as a result of potentially low adherence. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Wimal. I think there's a couple of topics that we'll have to work through. So, there's
always the risk of compliance and how we manage that. We can certainly share, as we have more
data, the experience we have in clinical -- in the controlled clinical trial setting. And as I mentioned
earlier, we're confident in the profile we see with respect to breakthrough hemolysis. And I think
for many patients having either regular infusions, weekly infusions, bi-weekly subcu infusions, all
these are quite burdensome. And at least our experience has been in severe diseases that
patients are highly compliant with their oral therapies given that they know these are absolutely
critical for their health and well-being.
So we believe that the compliance topic can be handled in a ultra-rare population that is
extremely well informed about their condition, and of course, we'll take the steps necessary. And
that the benefits of what we believe and hope the clinical trial data will ultimately bear out is
improved efficacy, improved safety, improved overall control, improved secondary endpoints to
be highlighted in the upcoming disclosures will motivate patients to want to get on the best
therapy for the management of their disease. And that's, I think, the case we'll have to make.
Alongside that, of course, comes up a question on, if you're competing against Part B medicines,
how will that impact. And our assessment is that, in general, most of the hematologists use this
medicine are very low volume with respect to given that there's only 4,000 to 6,000 patients in
the U.S. And that can be managed given that this is likely not a large cost recovery driver for
those physicians. Outside of the U.S., we would expect our ability to use an oral therapy to reduce
the burden on healthcare systems, as well as hopefully reach many of the patients who can'tafford the currently approved therapies would allow us to, again, treat the majority, I hope, the
majority of patients with these complement-driven diseases, including PNH, overtime.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein `
Well. Thank you.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations `
Thanks, Wimal. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America `
Okay. Thanks for the follow-up. So just following again on to Pluvicto, just to reiterate on Pete's
point. So, are you at capacity now though in Q3 or should fourth go to be higher than third
quarter before you bring on next level of supply? And then in the pre-taxane setting, can you help
us understand the proportion of patients in that first-line metastatic indication that go through a
large center such as long as you're talking at the moment versus community -- oncology and
community urology centers?
And on that last group, how do you stop them from just using taxane upfront anyway? Because if
they refer a patient, they'll essentially lose the income from that patient, at least for the
treatment portion of the disease.
And then just last question, you had a few times this morning, just why the conservativism in the
guidance if Innovative Medicines is growing mid to high-single-digits and Sandoz also now
growing, you've upgraded Sandoz twice now without upgrading the group guidance, so just what
sort of the difference or bridge between IM mid to high-end and then group guidance you've
made? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Graham. First on supply, to reiterate, we have an adequate supply to meet the
demand for the post-taxane vision population for Pluvicto. We see very high levels of demand
and we expect continued growth of the brand in the coming quarters in that third, and fourth line
setting. And we allocate all capacity that is available in our network to the United States for launch.
If anything we'll -- if we needed, we would prioritize launches in other markets to assume -- to
ensure that the U.S. is at full demand. I guess, what I was trying to indicate is, even with respect to
the higher demand and higher volumes we expect to see in quarter four, those volumes could be
even higher if we were to completely unconstrained the number of centers that would want to
bring this medicine onboard. So all on the right trajectory.
With respect to the pre-taxane setting, we would roughly expect the new data, if positive, to
triple to quadruple the number of patients that would be eligible for -- so basically the broad
range of patients in the metastatic setting in first, second, and third line. The full range of
metastatic prostate cancer patients, who have -- the key constrain is, who have a PET scan. So
once they have a PET scan, we would expect them to be eligible for our medicine.I think it's much more of a PET scan availability that will drive a lot of the movement towards
radioligand therapy perhaps versus detect names or other available therapeutics. And I guess
what I'd say is really going to be in terms of referral patterns from community oncology to larger
centers, two dynamics there. One, how fast can we move out to, because we believe that if we
get to 400 or so centers, we can cover the full range of population, so the accessibility would be
there.
And then second, the quality of the data so that physicians feel compelled to refer even if there's
a risk that the patient has moved to another center. I think in general oncologists want what's best
for their patients in all cases, and so I think that's going to be the other part of the story. For more
specific data, let us come back to you. We have to probably do some more work in terms of the
specifics of community oncology versus large-scale centers and where the patients are in that
broad metastatic population.
In terms of guidance, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Graham. Was not expecting that question, of course. But I would say, we are guiding for the
total company mid-single-digit top-line and bottom-line on our core sales and coping [ph]. We
have delivered on the company, for the first nine months, 5% and 6%. And I expect, without
getting into a very detailed quarter four guidance, that we are roughly in that range again in
quarter four. But of course, you have to take into account that you have Gilenya now, has a
generic entry. So maybe the top a little bit less than the year-to-date. But a good mid to high-
single-digit on the bottom-line.
So overall, I think, you see on the first nine months that we are very much on track for the
guidance. If it's a little bit stronger on the bottom-line, so be it. But I think it is roughly in line with
what you have seen so far.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. It's a simple question for Harry on tax. Obviously, you've changed guidance before
year '22 with a reduced tax-rate and you highlighted the change in geographic mix. Harry, I
wondered if that new lower tax rate is the best indication for 2023 or whether not you see any
meaningful changes that mean it's not a good indicator for the midterm?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead, Harry.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Matthew. So, overall, there is always a bit of volatility on geographic profit mix.
And then we adjust, if you will, to each quarter to what we believe is our full-year estimate on thecore and reported taxes. So, basically, we moved our full year estimate from 16.9% as we had in
the first six months to 16.5%. Now, I would -- again, we give detailed guidance, of course, for '23
then when we have our full year results in January or early February actually. And then -- but I
would expect the tax rate to be in that range of 16.5% to 17.5%. We will update you with that then
early February.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Berenberg Berenberg. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you. A follow-up question on Pluvicto, please. Just looking at Slide 33, it highlights the
change to your approach in the non-metastatic setting. So could you confirm why you are now
moving to start Phase 2 next year rather than a Phase 3 this year? Could you just clarify those
changes and perhaps the opportunity in that setting as well, please? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Kerry. In the non-metastatic setting, the way our previous study was designed, and
based on feedback from the various investigators and the FDA, we believe PSMAfore study
covers the population that we had previously believed we needed to do an additional study for.
So we've redesigned our program to generate additional data in a different part -- I don't have
the details at hand, but a different population within the non-metastatic setting.
I would also say, we're evaluating now Pluvicto as well in earlier lines of therapy to see if we can
delay progression as well as evaluating combination therapies as well, given the overall interest
we've seen on the medicine and the clinical profile that we're seeing. So, that's the reason we
made that switch based on the understanding from the regulators and experts in the United
States.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Please stand by. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, JPMorgan Chase & Co., JP Morgan.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. When I look at the latest prescriptions for Tafinlar and Mekinist,
they seem to have gone more into a decline in Q4. Is there anything that we should think about in
terms of the dynamics you're seeing in the melanoma market perhaps like pre-approval
impacting those two brands that we should not think of the strong growth we've seen thus far
continuing beyond for the brand? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Richard. I mean, overall, I think we didn't note any significant change, really it wouldn'tkey markets. But I think it's a good question, and let us do some homework and get back to you. I
don't think we have the answers straight at hand.
Q - `Richard Vosser, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Cool. Thank you.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thanks very much for taking my follow-ups. Vas, could you help us understand the scope of
the free trial offer on Leqvio when it comes to patient initiation? And how that might influence
increase in ACT adoption? And then secondly, on the interest of LOE in China, what's the latest
situation there in terms of your best guess?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So on the free trial offer, Mark, really the idea was to -- while we already provide payment terms
that allow physicians to start doses, and have time to get reimbursed before they would have to
ultimately pay for the doses. We also noted that for some physicians there was a need to provide
an alternative option to get them comfortable to start to stop the medicine. So, in July, we rolled
out a free trial offer program that provides dose -- first dose for a patient free. And then so the
physician can get comfortable, use those doses, and then hopefully then pull through to follow --
keep the patient on therapy as they also get comfortable with the buy-and-bill process.
We've had very strong updates of that program, and so I think over a thousand physicians plus
have signed up for the free trial offer program at the last look, which was still a month ago. So,
that's been a very positive step, I think, to get more physicians to stock Leqvio in the offices so
that ultimately they can provide it to patients. And then hopefully get more comfortable with an
ongoing procedure to stock the medicine and provide the medicine and get reimbursement.
Now, with respect to Entresto in China, we currently are continuing our discussions with the -- or I
guess, our litigations within China against the various generics. And at this point in time, we would
expect the Entresto to be fully protected to '23 and '24, and then impact in '25 and beyond. But
that's something we'll have to continue to look at it because it's an evolving landscape with
respect to data protection and the ongoing litigation that we have in the country. So, we'll keep
you updated accordingly.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I believe, with that we've cleared the entire question queue. I want to thank everyone and
apologies for the two technical disruptions. And we'll look forward to keeping you up-to-dateOperator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.