Q3 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Hello, and welcome to the SAP Third Quarter Earnings Call. At our customers' request this
conference will be recorded.
May I now hand you over to Mr.`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief Investor Relations Officer. The line is yours.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. With me on the call are CEO, Christian
Klein; CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer; and `Scott Russell, Customer Success, Head of Customer Success. On this call, we'll discuss
SAP's third quarter result of 2022. You can find a deck supplementing today's call, as well as our
quarterly statement on our Investor Relations website.
In this call, we'll make forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or other
statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to materially differ.
Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may be found in our filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to the risk factor section of SAP's
Annual Report on Form 20-F of 2021. Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-
IFRS, and growth rates and percentage point changes are non-IFRS year-over-year at constant
currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide should not be considered as a substitute
for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And with that, I'd like to turn over to Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `Yes. Thank you, Anthony, and thanks to all of you for spending time with us today. Businesses
everywhere are dealing with a combination of profound challenges, including inflation, labor and
energy shortages, and disrupted supply chains. Despite these challenges, our results
demonstrate the relevance of our strategy during these volatile times and reflect how SAP is
uniquely positioned to help our customers become stronger for the future.
The role of technology is clear. SAP solutions are directly helping our customers, address their
most pressing needs. Whether that means redesigning or automating their business processes,
helping them with supply chain resiliency, or stepping up to meet their sustainability goals and
new regulations. Analysts point to the growing IT priority for strategic ERP implementations and
that SAP should benefit from our role as a mission-critical partner in these challenging times.
Let's take a look at our top-line numbers. We've delivered another strong quarter in Q3. We are
seeing accelerating momentum across all our key cloud indicators, with cloud revenue, now
representing our largest revenue stream for two sequential quarters. Cloud revenue was up 25%.
Current cloud backlog grew by 26% and now exceeds EUR11 billion. SAP S/4HANA growth
accelerates once again with current cloud backlog growing at 90%, now at EUR2.7 billion.
S/4HANA cloud revenue is growing at 81%.
We are clearly expanding our leadership in ERP with net new customers, once again representing
nearly 60% of our new S/4HANA deals in Q3, together nearly 800 go-lives. The SAP business
technology platform has become the foundation for our customers' business transformation. The
platform offers differentiating data and application services, which customers and partners use to
integrate their SAP and non-SAP system landscapes.
On top of this, customers are able to develop their own customers, alongside their SAP apps and
benefit from process automation across their integrated landscape. This leads to a powerful
flywheel effect from the SAP business technology platform, which now has a one-way exceeding
EUR1.5 billion, contributing to overall PaaS cloud revenue growth of 44% in Q3.
Our RISE with SAP offering is the easiest and most flexible way for customers to take advantage
of our portfolio. It has amended its place as the preferred choice for customers as they move
their ERP to the cloud. RISE with SAP includes the technology, support, and best practices to help
customers redesign, how their companies won. We are seeing strong year-over-year take-up
since we introduced our RISE offering at the beginning of 2021.
Overall, there are nearly 2,500 customers running in over 100 SAP and partner data centers
around the globe, who have selected RISE with SAP to transform their business processes and IT
landscapes. This also reflects the increasing demand for independent government cloud
solutions from SAP. RISE also continues to be a great mechanism for cross-sell and up-sell, with
more than 80% of RISE customers deciding for our business technology platform and 86% of
RISE also including additional cloud solutions.
Let me give you some examples of this strong customer moment. In Q3, RISE with SAP wins
included Prada, RICOH, The BBC, and Schneider Electric. Prada, one of the most recognizable
players in the luxury industry have selected RISE with SAP to further accelerate their digital
transformation and improve outcomes and efficiency from their global network of 635 stores.
This expansion includes SAP Ariba and SAP Signavio, enabling them to analyze and transform
business processes.
RICOH of Japan have selected RISE with SAP to accelerate their transformation into a digital
services company. This will accelerate standardization and efficiency improvements of theirproduction and service parts management operations, and use robotics process automation to
automate internal business processes.
Schneider Electric, a global leader in the digital transformation of energy management and
automation selected SAP S/4HANA public cloud to standardize their end-to-end operations
across finance, manufacturing, and logistics based on proven industry best practices. Following a
comprehensive review, The BBC has selected S/4HANA cloud as the foundation for its future SAP
and partner platform.
Moving to BTP in Germany, center for pandemic vaccines is using the SAP Business Technology
Platform as its technical foundation, especially given the crucial importance of data protection and
security. We are proud to host a complete vaccine distribution system in our German data center.
Our sustainability solutions continue to take on increasing importance for our customers as they
navigate the energy crisis and align with new regulations. Our customers need to record, report
and act, and that's the value our solutions provide. This will become increasingly important as new
SEC and EU regulations take effect. Salzgitter AG, one of Europe's leading and most efficient
producers of steel selected a portfolio of SAP sustainability solutions to gain insights into their
environmental data, ensure a safe and sustainable operations, and take actionable steps towards
sustainable business performance.
In Q3 Tetra Pak, the world's leading food processing and packaging solutions company started
their adoption of SAP responsible design and production, helping them comply with the UK's
plastic packaging tax regulations. We have also seen important wins across our lines of business
solutions, including many competitive wins against Oracle and Workday with SAP SuccessFactors.
Schiphol Nederland, the Dutch airport for European and intercontinental flights, which chose SAP
SuccessFactors over Oracle as part of their strategy to insource their HR data and processes back
to Schiphol.
Deutsche Bank Schenker, the global logistics provider, part of Deutsche Bank chose SAP
SuccessFactors over both Workday and Oracle. They will be providing an enhanced employee
experience with harmonized data, improved self-service offerings, and talent management
solutions. Our intelligent spend and business network is benefiting from a return to business
travel, combined with the increased focus on managing costs with cloud revenue growth in the
mid-teens.
Pennsylvania State University in the U.S. has been using SAP Concur Solutions for more than 15
years. They expanded now our partnership in Q3 based on the increase in student, faculty, and
administrator trouble. More than ever, customers need to be able to easily adapt and automate
their end-to-end business processes, and at the same time, monitor, analyze, and understand
the data flowing through their systems. This reality is behind our new SAP Signavio growth
market, which nearly doubled in cloud revenue since Q3 last year. As an example, Cognizant, the
U.S. professional services organization has chosen SAP Signavio to help its customers identify
process inefficiencies and define improvement.
Let me now conclude with some comments about our outlook for the rest of the year and
beyond. Our financial outlook for 2022 remains on track, both for the top and the bottom line.
Overall, our strong cloud momentum has offset the top-line impact from exiting Russia. On the
bottom line, we anticipate meeting the guidance we provided last quarter. We are expecting our
largest Q4 on record for overall order entry and new cloud business. SAP's cloud transformation
has reached a tipping point, and we had an important inflection point for the company after
beginning our transformation two years ago.We feel very positive about the resilience we have built into our future business. Predictable
revenue now accounts for 80% of revenue, up from 72% in 2020, the starting point of our cloud
transformation. Despite the macro challenges, we see strong demand as our SaaS portfolio is
especially relevant during these times, and we anticipate that the flywheel effect of our business
technology platform together with our partner ecosystem will power strong cloud consumption.
We've also excited about our innovation pipeline, and we look forward to announcing new
innovations at our annual TechEd event in November. As we mentioned last quarter, we are
continuing to simplify and consolidate our portfolio to focus on high-cloud solution, which may
also be complemented by potential future acquisition, to strengthen our core. As such we remain
committed to deliver our 2023 commitments, including double-digit operating profit growth in
2023. We are also very confident in delivering our 2025 midterm ambitions.
Thank you again for joining us today. Luka, over to you to cover our results as always in more
detail.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks a lot, Christian. Yes, indeed, we have again delivered a strong cloud quarter despite
the continued macro headwinds. Christian, just talked about some of the business highlights. I
think it's becoming very clear from that, that SAP solutions are directly helping our customers in
their digital transformation journeys.
The third quarter was highlighted by cloud revenue growth of 25% to EUR3.3 billion. Likewise,
current cloud backlog growth continued its upward trajectory driven by strong growth across our
SaaS and PaaS portfolio. Large cloud transactions with a volume greater than EUR5 million
contributed again more than 40% to our cloud order entry.
Now, let me dive into some more details around our Financial Highlights, starting with the top line.
Recurring cloud backlog is now at EUR11.3 billion, accelerating its growth to 26%. Growth here was
strong across our solution portfolio with all main solutions, except our infrastructure business
achieving double-digit growth rates. Similar to last quarter, the war in Ukraine had a dampening
impact of approximately 1 percentage point on that growth rate. S/4HANA current cloud backlog
growth accelerated to 90% driven by the strong adoption of RISE with SAP.
In Q3 alone we added more than EUR400 million to our S/4HANA current cloud backlog, leading
to a total of EUR2.7 billion. For cloud revenue, our combined SaaS and PaaS portfolio continued to
grow an impressive 28%, with SaaS cloud revenue up 26% and PaaS cloud revenue up 44%.
Driven by this cloud performance and augmented by double-digit growth in services revenue,
total revenue was up 5%.
Now, let's take a brief look at our Regional Performance, where cloud revenue growth was very
strong across all regions; Americas increased by 26%, EMEA by 23%, and APJ by 27%. The U.S.
and Germany had an outstanding cloud revenue performance, while Brazil, China, India, and
Switzerland were all particularly strong.
Now, moving on to the bottom line, where I'm really proud to say that all of our main business
models; cloud, software licenses and support, as well as services increased their gross margins in
the quarter. Our cloud gross margin expanded 2.8 percentage points to 71.7%, marking the third
consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases. This was driven by a strong increase of the SaaS
margin with efficiency gains overcompensating, increased investments into the next-generation
cloud delivery program.The improvement of the cloud gross margin also contributed nicely to our cloud gross profit
growth of 30%. Non-IFRS operating profit came in at EUR2.1 billion, reflecting an 8% decline. This
was mainly driven by a reduced contribution from software licenses revenue and accelerated
investments into research and development and sales and marketing to capture current and
future growth opportunities. In addition, let me remind you that prior year third quarter results
included a disposal gain of EUR77 million related to the SAP Fioneer divestiture.
Let me now turn to EPS, Taxes, and Cash Flow. Earnings per share was down 36% to EUR1.12,
mainly resulting from the decrease in operating profit, and more so a pronounced decline in
finance income, which was driven by valuation adjustments in the Sapphire Venture Investment
portfolio reflecting broader market conditions. IFRS effective tax rate in the quarter was 35.7%
and the non-IFRS tax rate was 26%. The year-over-year increase mainly resulted from changes in
tax-exempt income, again primarily driven by the aforementioned valuation adjustments.
The current volatility in capital markets also leads to a lower level of predictability, regarding the
effective tax rate outlook. Based on current estimates, we now expect a full-year 2022 effective
tax rate for IFRS of around 45%, which was previously 34% to 38%, and for non-IFRS of around
30% previously 23% to 27%. As the further development strongly depends on the 2022 financial
income contribution of Sapphire Ventures, we may face major deviations in either direction given
current market conditions.
Free cash flow for the first nine months came in at EUR2.5 billion. The year-over-year decline was
attributable to the development of profitability and adverse impacts in working capital. In the
fourth quarter, we continue to expect a more favorable cash flow development due to a focus on
working capital management and lower payouts for cash taxes, share-based compensation, and
CapEx. However, based on our year-to-date position, we are adjusting our free cash flow outlook
for the year slightly to approximately EUR4.5 billion. As Christian already mentioned, all other
parameters of our outlook remain unchanged.
In terms of our non-financial targets, our greenhouse gas emissions were 25 kilotons in the
quarter due to catch-up effects in business travel as COVID-19 restrictions receded. As a
consequence, we will increase our 2022 carbon emissions outlook to a range of 90 to 95 kilotons
down from 110 kilotons in 2021. Reflecting year-to-date customer survey results, we are also
adjusting our net promoter score outlook range from plus 3% to plus 8%.
Finally, let me just briefly share that we have made great progress with our acquired asset Taulia,
adding to our core capabilities and providing our customers and their suppliers with access to
liquidity and improving cash flows. This is obviously critical, especially in the current economic
climate to help avoid supply chain disruptions. Taulia has signed a number of key clients, such as
Dole Asia and Hapag-Lloyd AG, and established a new strategic bank partnership with Standard
Chartered Bank. Further to this, Taulia has also signed an agreement with MasterCard to provide
embedded payment capabilities by integrating with the MasterCard virtual cloud platform.
So, in summary, Q3 proved to be another solid quarter highlighted by growth in current cloud
backlog and strong cloud revenue performance. Customers continue to prioritize digital
transformation and they put their trust in SAP to guide them on their journeys. Even with the
challenges that we are seeing in the world today, we are confident in the opportunity ahead. We
are, as Christian has said, at an important inflection point in our transformation roadmap, which
we expect to lead to accelerating revenue and double-digit operating profit growth in 2023.
Thank you very much, and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, operator. Please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Yes. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) The question
staoming by `Michael Briest, UBS from UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Briest, UBS `
Yes. Thank you and good afternoon, and congratulations. Two, if I may, Christian I think on the last
call, you said that the timing that you probably revisit the 2025 plan would be early next year, so
presently after Q4 results. I think with Dominik not arriving until March, does that change your
thinking about when you might come back to those plans?
And then secondly, in terms of the visibility you have on the RISE customers, obviously great to
see the current cloud backlog growing as quickly as it is. But you mentioned 2,500 customers on
RISE. Could you maybe say, what book of maintenance that represents that might convert, even if
it's not fully contracted over the next three or four years, perhaps just give us a sense on visibility
beyond the current backlog. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks for the question, Michael. I would start and then Luka you can build on the
maintenance and the conversion factors, which were better than ever before this quarter, but
Luka can share more details on that.
Look on the first part of the question with regard to the midterm guide. We are now endowing
Q4 and Scott who is sitting next to me, and all team have to deliver a big quarter. Pipeline is
looking very good, but I would like to also ask you for some patience to let us deliver this quarter,
another hopefully successful quarter for SAP, it's looking very good on the cloud. And then, as you
have also have alluded to Michael to the current cloud backlog, that gives us, of course, also very
high confidence that we going to also achieve or even overachieve our mid-term guidance 2025.
Yeah, we also in the middle of a CFO transition, and Luka, myself, and Dominik will also touch
base and really decide short-term when we are going to update our midterm guidance 2025. So
it's not so much out there, but please hang on and let us deliver another strong Q4. And then, we
will also update at the sooner than later also our mid-term guidance for 2025. Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks a lot, Michael for the question. Actually on the RISE related conversions factors have
never been more favorable. I'm actually really pleased with this. So for first time we have actually
seen a conversion factor that was more than 3x. So this is extremely healthy. We will lose really a
very digestible low triple-digit million amount of maintenance in 2022 and it will convert at much
higher rates as part of the RISE transactions.
Why is that not only because the value of the solution is understood. But as Christian has said, we
see an ever-increasing share of cross-sell and upsells along with RISE, I mean almost 90% of the
RISE transactions have additional solution areas attached to them and that is the reason why the
conversion factors continue to develop very favorably.Q - `Michael Briest, UBS `
Thank you. But presumably the RISE contract in year one are potentially much smaller than at the
end stage, as these are very large customers. Can you give any sense on how much bigger over
time the existing book of business would grow to?
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yeah, it's Scott here, Michael. So maybe I can come to that. I think Luca mentioned at the
beginning that over 40% of our deals were over EUR5 million, most of those are three-year to
five-year contracts and on a multi-year basis. And as you rightly point out, they often have a low
ramp in the first year and then accelerate as the transition and as they're able to adopt not only
RISE but associated solutions.
So you can expect that with a large portion of larger customers on a multi-year basis that would
increase in the -- out of years, in terms of not only backlog but ultimately resulting in cloud
revenues for SAP and great solutions for our customers.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Just the last comment on this, I mean in the last, I would say one year plus, we have seen that our
growth in total order entry as a result of the introduction of RISE has always been exceeding our
growth in annualized order entry by more than 10% every quarter. And that is of course if further
adding to the predictability of results and one of the reasons why you have seen the current
cloud backlog even on a growing number, continuing to grow fast.
Q - `Michael Briest, UBS `
Thank you very much.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Michael. We'll take the next question.
Operator
Mr.Adam `Wood, Adam D., Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited from Stanley Morgan. May we've your question please.
Q - `Wood, Adam D., Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited `
Hi, Christian, hi, Luka. Thanks for taking the question and congrats from me as well on a very
good quarter. I've also got two please. And the first one is just I get a lot of questions from
investors around the risks on the macro and I guess the biggest issue and challenge for you
going into Q4 is that licenses, although they've come down a lot, still quite a big number that you
need to close in the fourth quarter.
Could you just talk a little bit about pipeline going in and then the correlation between licenses
and EBIT. If we see a kind of minus 25, 30 on licenses would that get you to the upper end of the
EBIT range with the kind of minus 40 that we've seen this quarter, get you to the bottom. Is that
kind of the way we should be thinking about it.
And then maybe secondly, Christian you've talked about scenario quite a few times on the call. I
wonder, if you could just talk a little bit about the competition you face in that market, when we
think about automating business processes. There's the app Senders, there's people likeServiceNow, there's the breed RPA vendors. Could you talk a little bit about, what customers are
doing? And how SAP positions in those markets phase? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks a lot, Adam for the question. If you allow me, I would like to start with the second
question first and then together, we can also answer the question on the macro and pipeline for
Q4. Look on Signavio, first of all, Signavio was probably one of the most strategic acquisitions we
ever did. Because, RISE is not a lift and shift, RISE is about business transformation, it's about
business process automation, and we are seeing this.
To the question early on for Michael, this is not a lift and shift, customers are now start adopting.
We see huge consumption also especially, after the first six months when customers did the
redesigned, did the process standardization, and then Signavio it was actually the missing pillar in
our portfolio. And compared to other players, there is no data replication. You don't want to
replicate very sensitive data from one system to another when you are talking about financial,
logistics, production or HR data, or in the future, when they have building the equation also to our
CX portfolio.
On top at Tacit we are going to do an announcement. I don't want to now steal the thunder of
the team, but what will clearly differentiate SAP in this market is that you don't need to deal with a
lot of best of breed solutions to analyze to actually benchmark and then automate and configure
business processes. So the business process automation layer will be delivered by a SAP out of
the box of engineering teams put a lot of work into that technical wise but also content wise. And
with the business technology platform where the data layer sits where all the other services are
sitting the combination of these assets is not something what others can easily match.
To your -- to the first part of the question, Macro when -- of course, I mean, Adam these times
are challenging for every in almost and almost every industry. But why is the business case for
SAP and especially on the cloud side stacking so much up. First of all, it's about digital
transformation, business transformation. So for example, we talking about green energy in
Germany, energy crisis, you need new software for to deliver, to transport, to produce clean
energy, and there technology plays a crucial role in ERP, a supply chain solution, and that can be
replicated to many, many more industries.
Second, the supply chains. This business network is not just a vision, it's there. We have millions of
suppliers which we connect to buyers and build resilience supply chains across the globe, it was a
major cost driver also now in Q3. And last but not least, sustainability, and this is also important
part of the business case, not only on a standalone basis. When we are building a business case
for S/4HANA it has a business transformation dimension, it has a cost audit -- cost-efficiency
dimension, but it also has a sustainability ESG dimension.
So, while we are making good business in the meantime with our sustainability portfolio, it's also
a lever to justify the business case for our core applications. And, of course, it's a different game,
if you look at software CapEx and if you look into cloud, but for both elements we see actually, of
course, the cloud much better pipeline. But with that Scott, maybe you can also share some more
details about how is the pipeline looking in both businesses, actually for the quarter.
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yes, sure. Happy to take it, Christian, let me try to use the -- keep it pretty simple. First of all from
the pipeline perspective, whilst the macroeconomic conditions continue to be considered across
the world. Our pipeline on our core solutions that address the CFO and how they need to helpcompanies navigate these uncertain times have increased significantly that gives us confidence
not only in RISE with SAP but when you consider the spend management portfolio managing your
procurement expenses, your travel expense, your operating expense, managing your working
capital, these core assets are in higher demand and helping businesses to navigate.
Secondly, we're seeing actually an acceleration to the adoption Christian mentioned, because
speed to consumption and using these solutions is helping us on those multi-year agreements
that the Christian mentioned in terms of enabling and consuming that capability.
And then last-but-not-least is the impact that has we did see, obviously, the continuation in
software to the negative 40% or there about that was indicated the reality is the market
continues to look for its capability in the cloud from SAP. And as a result, we don't see the same
pipeline on the software side, but the good news is it's a one not only to our strategy, but their
strategy of being able to adopt and consume innovation at all times in the cloud. So it provides a
long-term capability, not just a short-term addressing the current business needs. And maybe
Luka, you can talk about the P&L.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Let me translate this into the P&L. So I think you can take from Christian and Scott's
comments that we are extremely confident about the underlying momentum of our cloud
business and also our order entry projection going into Q4.
Now as far as it relates to our cloud business in terms of current cloud backlog and cloud
revenue, there are two technical aspects that I need to quickly allude to. One is that we expect
now in Q4 to complete the divestiture of Litmos. And on top of that, we will see the anniversary
of the acquisition of Clarabridge, that Qualtrics performed in Q4 last year. So those two effects
together have a dampening effect on growth of round about 1.5 percentage points on top of
what we have been dealing with already inside the entire year with the impact of the war in
Ukraine.
And so -- from a prudence perspective, I think it's fair to assume that we will therefore likely see a
slightly lower growth rate on both of those metrics in Q4, but the underlying momentum is
tremendous and certainly gives us incredible scope and visibility into continued further strong
growth in 2023 as well. When it comes to software licenses, as Scott has said, we don't expect a
turnaround, it's going to be our biggest quarter also for software licenses, that's for sure. But in
our planning, we are actually assuming that we will see a similar performance of software licenses
in Q4 as we have seen it in Q3 and actually throughout the entire year. And that means if that is
the ultimate outcome that we would rather expect to arrive at the lower end of our combined
cloud and software revenue guidance at constant currencies of cost currency will be a significant
help then on a nominal level.
And ultimately on EBIT line given also the strength in the cloud profit that we are generating, we
actually confident that Q4 will see finally turnaround and a return to positive operating profit
growth we would expect on a nominal level to and somewhere at or above its single-digit growth
with a flattish development on a constant currency basis. And then as we move into 2023 clearly
our commitment to double-digit growth stands. And actually, you wouldn't need to wait for long
because obviously, in half year one our performance was worse than what we expect in half year
two sort of seasonality will lead to us, starting to fulfill that commitment already in the first
quarter. I hope that's helpful.
Q - `Wood, Adam D., Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited `Thank you for the detailed answer. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
Next turn is to James `Goodman, James, Barclays Capital from Barclays. The line is your.
Q - `Goodman, James, Barclays Capital `
Its great. Thank you, good afternoon. Double from me, please as well. So, firstly and clearly
extremely strong on the S/4HANA cloud backlog at 90%. I think, you also said double-digit in all
the main other product areas. Just wanted to -- if we could focus in on these for a second.
I calculate something like a low teens constant FX growth rate in the backlog for the excess for
portfolio. So, could you speak to the sort of growth rate in that business versus the 2025 plan, I
think we're originally looking for more of a high teens growth rate in those line of business assets.
Thank you. And then the second question just to fill up really on the cost of element as it relates
to EBIT, I was a little surprised just a headcount kick up this quarter, I think by more than we've
seen in a few years for Q3. Can you talk about where the headcount is going from here, I know
you've been doing some restructuring and cost containment as well, thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So thanks a lot James for the question. Luka can take the question on the head count. I
mean to your first part of the question, I guess, it's important to mention that when you look at
RISE and when customers starting the journey, it's not only about as for S/4HANA finance. I mean,
this is a movement when we are done in we are talking about the business priorities of the
customer and in when it's about higher to retire employee experience, we are replacing the old
SCM on-premise module, or we are going into Ariba. Sometimes even if customers didn't yet
have it in place, they are also has even led to also grab net new customers with RISE. And you
have seen our high net new customer share, not only in S/4HANA but also in the other lines of
businesses.
The most important impact for us out of RISE is not even only S/4HANA, it's about the business
technology platform. Because what we are seeing there is standardizing ERPs building side-by-
side new applications will try for massive consumption for SAP, and now that there is the whole
application logic on the platform as high developer productivity on the platform, we are seeing
not only customers doing this, we are seeing now our ecosystem moving with us.
We had last week with our partner Connect, and the number one topic was the business
technology platform and how great it is in the meantime for developers to building on that
platform. And that's very, very important because with that comes also the standardization and
with that comes not only the move to the private cloud but also to the public cloud, which then
leads also to cause margin performance we have seen this quarter. Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Just a few on more effects. First of all, S4 is not the only solution in our portfolio that enjoys very
high current cloud backlog growth rates, just add Signavio and Christian has alluded to this
already, the business technology platform extremely strong also in the current cloud backlogQualtrics you have seen their numbers, they also have a very strong result. So that actually --
mainly our infrastructure as a service business that is dragging the CCP down and that's
absolutely intended as such because we're driving the emphasisation of this business and the
transformation towards RISE. So, infrastructure service has a 3% drag on the CCP.
The other solution that used to be like a conquerors actually recovering very nicely, they are only
representing this quarter 1% drag on the CCP growth. Actually on the transactional revenue side,
they are already showing very high growth in the high double-digits. So that business will
definitely exceeds its pre-pandemic state next year as we had projected. So we have a lot of very
healthy growers and the other life solutions like, intelligence, spenders operating at the mid-
teens level, as indicated.
From headcount perspective, yes, we had significantly more incremental heads in Q3 and Q2 but
they were not hired necessarily in the sense in terms of initiated hiring in Q3 that's a spillover
effect from deferred hiring that was initiated in Q2. As of July, we have established a very
restrictive incremental hiring practices, so that means that in Q4 and also going into next year,
you should not expect an incremental growth in the total headcount. But where have we hired in a
very disciplined since basically almost entirely into roles research and development and in sales
and marketing again, because we are confident about our growth opportunities next year and we
have front-loaded hiring to be ready and productive as we start the new year.
And in engineering, we obviously see great scope to further extend the innovation leadership of
SAP in our core categories and we continue to invest in this. But with this edition we are now at
the run rate that we believe is both healthy and necessary but also sufficient to go into the next
year.
Q - `Goodman, James, Barclays Capital `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, James. And from now on we will kindly ask you to ask only one question and we take
the next one please.
Operator
Next question is Mr.Phil `Winslow, Phil, Credit Suisse Securities USA LLC from Credit Suisse Securities.
Q - `Winslow, Phil, Credit Suisse Securities USA LLC `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on strong quarter. I mean, Christian obviously
as a very broad product portfolio and you need a lot of winds across different segments financial
supply chain, HCM and when I think about some of these are pretty significant transformation
projects implementation cycles. But my question to you is obviously customers continue to spend
and buy from SAP on these -- hearing from some of those verticals that may be a little bit more
cyclical cause -- discrete manufacturing CPG, why they continued to go through these projects
and bet on SAP right now despite the macro uncertainty.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, good question. And let me highlight maybe one customer, where I'm especially proud about
this quarter, which has gotten team closed. I mentioned Schneider Electric, and what I mentionedthere is that we did it to standard with Schneider Electric, they had clear expectations with regard
to process automation and really efficiencies in the business.
We went down five levels designed to operate, here to retire, quote to cash, all the financial
business processes and we came out with a fit for over 30 factories for the end-to-end
operations. And this is what I'm doing step-by-step and we have modules where they can also
see a long-debt journey with RISE now, every quarter business benefits on the automation side
on the business model chain. And we also co-innovating on sustainability, and that customer story
actually reflects it very well.
Our strength is the best of suite in a different way than in the past, because as it holds a much
less time now. And this is actually a good reference for many, many other customers we are
closing and working with under the umbrella of RISE. And with regard to the portfolio, of course,
there is not a lack of market, which is good on the one hand side, but you also have seen Litmos,
you also have seen FIONA. So, we are taking also very serious steps to keep the focus to invest
where it really matters, where we see high quotes, where we see the mission critical business
processes where we can differentiate. And this is, of course, something what we also take very
serious.
Q - `Winslow, Phil, Credit Suisse Securities USA LLC `
Excellent. Keep up the good work.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Phil. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is coming from Charles `Brennan, Charles, Jefferies from Jefferies GmbH.
Q - `Brennan, Charles, Jefferies `
Perfect. Thanks so much. I will keep this very brief question. In your prepared remarks, you called
out possibility of M&A. Are you flagging up the chance that you do something a little bit bigger
than a bolt-on? And then, in the current market, there's a little bit more focus on profitability. And
can you confirm that the double-digit profits growth is going to be on a constant currency and
organic basis? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, for sure. And Luka then talk about that. Not sure if I wanted to flex something, but look
actually when -- the way how we also manage our portfolio as SAP and also together with the
teams on the cloud is we always looking in build partner by. And this is what we're doing every
quarter and look we now did for my perspective a great job with it used the technical depth of
our portfolio by a lot. You see this in the cloud cost margin and this will elevate even into next
year, so we are doing our homework there.
And but -- it's of course also a good position to be in to look at white spots of our portfolio. We
are very happy with partnerships like we do with ISearch. So it doesn't need to always be an
acquisition. But of course, when we see white spots where customers are telling us, this is high
value, this should come integrated and in a very strong way, it should come out of the box with
SAP also leading on the go-to-market, I would never roll out, also the acquisition. But a goodpiece is also there is not an urgent need now to buy revenue we only do it, if we see the value
for our customers.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
And I can keep my answer very short. Yes, our profit commitment for 2023 is on a constant
currency basis and organic.
Operator
This is from Toby `Ogg, Toby, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited from JPMorgan, may we have your question please? Please remind not to
unmute yourself. Until you right now.
Q - `Ogg, Toby, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited `
Hey, yes, hi Christina and Luca. Thank you for taking the questions. I just wanted to touch on the
development of EBIT into the fourth quarter, and clearly we touched on the license aspect to
consider, but there's obviously the disposal. There's the easier comp on EBIT from Q4 for '21.
Now Luka you said -- you expect mid-single digit on a nominal basis and flat in constant currency.
Could you just walk us through the specific building blocks that give you the confidence in the
ability to achieve that level of growth in the fourth quarter. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, well, first of all, I have no other reference point for the development of nominal versus
constant currency growth rates then what we are observing today. So that's all that I can say
about this. I don't think that in short term the Euro will bounce massively back, but of course, I
don't have a crystal ball about that. So I can only concentrate on what we are focused on.
What we are focused on is continuing to drive a very healthy high renewal, low churn recurring
revenue business with support revenues which are very resilient with cloud which has been very
resilient with a services business that is doing very well as actually increased its margins year-
over-year despite the fact that it's probably already the highest margin services business that you
can find in our industry. So, we will continue to be focused on that.
And then on the expense front, look we are getting to the final stretch of our cloud delivery
harmonization program. I think you have seen the progress that we have made at our margins
side. In Q4, we will have a last quarter of similarly significant investment as we have seen it in the
last two quarters. So of course, we will have to account for that. But on the flip side, we see that
the efficiency gains in the cloud are actually already now higher, let alone what we will see next
year once the program is finished. So, that is actually not going to be a drag but in the cloud I
think we have a very and strong profit performance.
And then we have -- we are focused since July actually on significant spends measures to make
sure that we don't have any discretionary spend, that is not absolutely necessary happening in
the organization. I'm hosting weekly spend council meetings that our favorite meeting in the
curriculum, probably for our senior leaders where I'm scrutinizing personally, every expense
above EUR500,000. We're doing the same at the port area level with my colleagues and their
CEOs and Chief Controlling Officers. So, we'll make sure that those discretionary expenses they
in check.
And as I said, we've closed the doors essentially for incremental hiring. So we will keep also
headcount growth in check. And that in combination with the resilience and recurring revenues.Should allow us to counter the impact from declining software licenses and deliver to our
ambition.
Q - `Ogg, Toby, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Toby. We'll take the next question.
Operator
Next question is from Frederic `Boulan, Frederic, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Q - `Boulan, Frederic, Bank of America `
Hi, good afternoon. I'll keep it brief. Can you us an update on your adoption of cloud solution on
your S/4HANA base? And as you can share a bit of an update on where the take-up is in terms of
private versus public go-live? And what you can see in terms of margin differential between the
two solutions? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Look, I can start then the team can build on it. Yeah. So first S4/HANA in the cloud,
extremely high retention rates. You're not shifting around ERPs. It's a very sticky business,
especially then when you are building side-by-side new extensions on the platform, it becomes
also an extremely sticky business together with the business technology platform.
Second, on the adoption -- high adoption on S/4HANA public cloud, assume that many of our net
new customers, Greenfield Co immediately to S/4HANA on public cloud. Even some large
enterprises now like Schneider Electric, decide to go to the public cloud. And of course, it's a
longer journey sometimes, because standardizing business processes, changing business
models is not something what you do easily asset on the customer side.
And these journey take the sometimes also one year to two years. But in -- on this journey, we
are replacing the old stack also with public cloud solution, so you are seeing also immediate
business value there. So while, of course, such a transition can take time the module architects
from can make -- it will make sure that you see also immediate benefits. So these are two
different businesses private and public, the large ones were the private, but again you see also
the maturity of the public cloud also now serving some large enterprises but of course the bulk of
the net new going S/4HANA a public cloud.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, maybe I'll add in Christian, just a bit more of a new ones on what we're also seeing. So in
addition to what we're seeing in terms of the overall sentiment that Christian described. We're
also seeing many large customers with multiple public and private deployments as they look at
scaling their business, but they've got assets around the world and companies that they want the
agility and the flexibility of the public cloud but we're also able to drive that, and we can support
that architecture.
And the other thing is irrespective of whether it's public or private cloud, the SAP approach of
being able to have a clean call, to be able to have a digital platform that you can innovate, youcan scale, you can grow around with the business technology platform, fast adoption is consistent
in all of the deployment which means it's a lower TCO, faster time to value, lower subscription
fees and ultimately an architecture that they will get the benefits from the innovation. So we see
the benefits, no matter which route.
This briefly in first of all, it's actually very encouraging to see that the trend in terms of profitability
of RISE engagements is on the RISE as well. So I think after we have proven the model in our early
engagement, in the first half of 2021, you see that the engagements are getting out in healthier
from a margin perspective. As we frankly also have better learnings about how to efficiently
deploy those customers, so that's on a positive trend for sure.
And just as additional data point, the cloud delivery harmonization program in Q3 add actually a
1.8 percentage point or negative impact on the cloud margin. So without those expenses and
they will leave the P&L next year, actually our cloud margin already this quarter would have been
already 73.5%. So this I think shows you that we are on a very positive path. And in terms of
absolute cloud profit which is anyway what we are focused on very strongly, we are tracking very,
very nicely against the derivative that you would derive from the 2025 margin target. So there is
really nothing to be concerned about here rather the opposite.
Q - `Boulan, Frederic, Bank of America `
Okay. Thank you, guys.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Frederic. And now, we'll take one final question.
Operator
The final question is question is from Mohammed `Moawalla, Mohammed E., Goldman Sachs International from Goldman Sachs. The line is
yours.
Q - `Moawalla, Mohammed E., Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you. Thanks for letting me in. Hi, Christian, Scott and Luka, I had two. Luka, just a
clarification on your comments on the cloud backlog growth evolution. Can you clarify that
excluding some of those one-time factors the cloud backlog should still sort of accelerate in Q4
as it normally does? Or should it be more flattish?
And then, secondly, I just wanted to come back to this kind of broader point on the portfolio. In
sort of more challenging times, we've often seen the pendulum switch back to sort of best of
suite from best of breed. You talked a lot about the kind of the breadth of the portfolio. I'm just
curious to sort of touch basic and on the kind of runway you have within just install base as
customers move to S4. And if you can remind us on the kind of penetration opportunities still to
go and how that can drive the strength you talked about over and above the macro? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Now let me just quickly get the first question out of the way because I thought that I had
answered this already earlier. So our current cloud backlog growth in Q3 was 26% that's also ex
these special factors what we would have seen as a Q4 factor, but as we have now -- the impact
from the Litmos divestiture we should land slightly below that. Of course you rightfully note big --
the significance of the order entry performance in Q4, but it's a safe assumption that this issomething that will be slightly bring the growth rate down in Q4 and the rest we will see based
on the actual performance.
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Okay. And in terms of the I guess the question regarding the multi solutions, I guess there's a
couple of data points, it's Scott here, that I would add. First of all, we don't see customers buying
necessarily about best of breed and best of suite, which we would argue that we are actually
competing strongly on both parameters. What we do see though is customers are looking for
end-to-end outcomes to solve their challenges, to solve for example their supplier visibility and
resilient, they need supply chain solution, they need to spend management to manage their
supplies, they need a quarry equally efficient. And they needed data, process and working --
workflow architecture that is end to end.
So it's more about the end to end capabilities that they're looking for rather than necessarily
trying to buy best of suite versus best of breed. That is resulting in a -- the outcome where --
which only we can offer the opportunity to be able to have an integrated solution end-to-end the
drives transformation and that results in more solutions being required together. But I would
highlight this. In today's market, they are very focused on time to value. So, the speed of
execution and deployment continues to improve.So, irrespective of whether they buy it once and
then the next and the next they buy together the deployment models are accelerated and that
helps us from a time to revenue, it helps them from a time to value. Christian, maybe you can
comment.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And Scott I had a few clients now and when I compare the situation right now, compared to three
years ago. Let's take a leap of what Scott just mentioned, not only that we can offer direct and
indirect procurement on one platform with intelligent sources with embedded AI, with one user
experience.
Once you have landed there you can connect it to supply chain planning you can make demand
and supply checks, which is very important when it comes to the supply chain disruptions we are
seeing today.
We coupled this to financial planning -- then the CFO is happy because you have really an
integrated planning, also form financial planning and two walls to supply chain into the verticals.
We have HR planning connected to that. So you see we lend but then we continue the business
conversation. And sometimes I felt this integration is something what we have to do, it is the
necessary thing. It's not only a necessary thing. This is how companies won and this is how you
land and expand. And when there is a data model underneath, when there are workflow
underneath, we talked to each other. I mean, this is how large enterprise, not only large also mid-
sized enterprises work. And this is now what we have to play out in the next years and the years
to come.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Christian, I just need to correct you on one statement. CFOs are by definition never happy, worse
ability. Thank you.
Q - `Moawalla, Mohammed E., Goldman Sachs International `
Thanks, guys.A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
All right. Thanks, `Moawalla, Mohammed E., Goldman Sachs International, and thank Scott, Christian and Luka. And this concludes our call for
today. Thanks for joining.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, everyone.
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Have a great day. Bye-bye.