Q3 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, good morning and welcome to our conference call of BMW
Group Third Quarter 2022. There is a slight change to the agenda today. `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, member
of the Board of management BMW AG Finance will be the one who will be giving you the
overview of business development and the key figures of BMW Group. After that he is, of course,
ready to take your questions. The reason for this is our CEO, Oliver Zipse, cannot be with us
today. He is participating in the trip to China with the Federal Chancellor Scholz and members of
business representatives.
Let me just make a few remarks. BMW Group is a global company and it is in 140 countries that
we sell our vehicles. We produce at 31 plants in 15 countries and we maintain a global research
and development network with our home market, Germany, as well as Asia and China and
America including the United States count among our most important markets. All over the world,
we are very strong and reliable partners with a long-term focus. Today, our -- as the global
economy, our industry is closely intertwined. This is why we continue to work for cooperation
across countries and constructive work together. From our point of view, this is the only right way
in order to also tackle the major issues of our times, above all, climate change. What matters
here are the major regions such as China, Europe and the United States. With their influence and
their economic power, they make or they can make and have to make a significant contribution
protection measure [ph] is something that diametrically opposes these endeavors. We need
dialog. This is why our CEO is very happy to be part of the delegation of our Federal Chancellor
Scholz.
Now said enough, I will now give the floor to our member for Board of management for finance,
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Max, for these words of introduction. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the
third quarter, BMW Group delivered a very solid performance. In a globally highly volatile business
environment, we can look back on a successful quarter. Sales totaled just under 588,000
vehicles, which is on par with the strong prior-year quarter. The EBIT margin in the Automotive
segment came in at 8.9%, which is at the high end of our target range for 2022. The
semiconductor shortage and supply chain disruptions have been with us all year. Not to mention,
bottlenecks in vehicle and parts logistics particularly -- partly due to pandemic related lockdowns
in China. All of these things have disrupted production.
Since we were unable to fully meet demand, we adjusted our volume targets at the half yearforecasted for the second half of the year. After the third quarter, we are on track to meet this
goal. Thanks to our flexible production network, we once again did an excellent job of steering
the BMW Group through the difficult supply situation in the third quarter. From purchasing to
supplier management to sales and marketing, our employees are delivering the highest
standards of performance each and every day and they're doing everything they can to meet
customer demand. We are partnering with our suppliers to continuously optimize our processes
and make them more effective, more efficient. Flexibility and operational excellence are what
make the BMW Group resilient. Our sales are also benefiting from our presence in the key three
regions of the world, European, The Americas and Asia as well from a highly attractive and
updated model. This became especially clear in the month of September where sales grew by
6.6% compared to the same month of last year. Our order books remain full, in particular, for our
highly attractive range of all electric models. Here we continue to see dynamic growth. In the first
9 months, we delivered more than a 128,000 BEVs to customers, an increase by 114.8%
compared to the previous year.
Ladies and gentlemen. Let's take a look at the financial key figures for the first 9 months. I'll start
at Group level. First quarter revenues were up 35.3% on the previous year reaching just under
EUR37.2 billion. Revenues for the first 9 months climbed to EUR103 billion. This significant increase
in revenues mainly resulted from the full consolidation of our Chinese joint venture BBA.
Group earnings before tax for the third quarter reached EUR4.1 billion which is 20% higher than
the already strong result in the same quarter in the previous year. Pretax earnings September
year-to-date totaled just under EUR20.3 billion. This 54% increase over the previous year largely
came from the fair market valuation of previously-held equity interest in BBA, which resulted in a
one-time effect of around EUR7.7 billion. The Group EBT margin came in at 11% for the third
quarter and 19.6% for the first 9 months. Our research and development costs in accordance with
IFRS totaled just under EUR4.9 billion for the year to the end of September. This represents a
year-on-year increase of 12.6%. The R&D ratio, according to the German Commercial Code stood
at 4.7% at the end of September due to the strong increase in revenues. This figure was 0.6
percentage points lower than for the same period last year. We expect the figure for the full year
to be within our target range of 5% to 5.5%. We are constantly working on the future of
sustainable individual mobility and a long-term transformation of the BMW Group. To achieve this,
we are investing in new models, including our Neue Klasse.
In the third quarter, we once again pushed forward with electrification of our vehicle fleet and
digitalization. For example, the Leipzig plant launched at second line for standard production of
battery modules. This way, the plant is making an important contribution to supplying the growing
number of electric vehicles with battery components. At the Dingolfing plant, we rolled out an
innovative digital system for the production of Acrow supports. This makes us more flexible and
ensures optimal use of our production capacity.
Capital expenditure for the first 9 months of 2022 totaled just under EUR4.7 billion, EUR2 billion
more than the figure for the previous year. More than 40% of this increase is the result of
investments at BBA. In the first 9-month investment was also focused on the ramp up of e-
mobility. We expect to see the usual seasonal increase in investment activity in the fourth quarter.
The CapEx ratio for the year to the end of September was 4.5%. For the full year 2022, we
expect the CapEx ratio of around 5.5%.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the individual segments. Let's begin with the Automotive
segment. Segment revenues for the third quarter totaled EUR32.3 billion and were therefore
42.7% higher year-on-year. Revenues for the year-to-date reached a new all-time high of EUR89
billion. The full consolidation of BBA made a significant contribution to this increase. Otheroperational business factors also benefited revenues. We still are able to ask a good price for our
vehicles in combination with the consistently strong model mix and positive development in pre-
owned car markets, we were able to more than offset the impact of the decrease in sales.
Currency translation effects also played a part due to the weak euro. The cost of sales in the
Automotive segment reached EUR27.3 billion in the third quarter and EUR75.4 billion for the first 9
months. This is 30% higher than for the same period of last year. Here once again, the full
consolidation of BBA into the Group financial segments contributed to the operational increase in
the year-on-year comparison. Headwinds from the full consolidation had a total impact of EUR2.7
billion. Of this amount depreciation from the purchase price allocation accounted for EUR1.4 billion
as planned. Around EUR1.3 billion in intercompany profits from intra-group deliveries were
eliminated in the first half year. In the first 9 months, we also saw an increase in cost for materials
and logistics of almost EUR2 billion partly due to the developments in raw material and energy
prices. The higher percentage of electrified vehicles also contributed to the increase in costs.
The segment's third quarter operating results totaled just under EUR2.9 billion, a 63.6% increase
on the same quarter last year. EBIT for the year to the end of September was only slightly lower
than last year at EUR7.7 billion. However, the figure for 2021 included the partial release of the
provision for the EU anti-trust proceedings. EBIT for the current year was also impacted by the
effects from the full consolidation of BBA that I already mentioned. Overall we have seen a high
earnings quality, which is also reflected in the EBIT margin. The figure for the third quarter was
8.9% and for the first 9 months, it was 8.7%. This keeps us on track for the high end of our target
range of 79% for the full year.
Excluding the consolidation effects mentioned above, the EBIT margin would be 10.1% for the
quarter and 11.7% for the first 9 months. This underlines the strong operating performance of our
core business. The segment's financial results for the year to the end of September totaled
around EUR8.2 billion and was therefore $6.5 billion higher year-on-year. The main driver for this
was the revaluation of the previously held BBA shares, resulting in a one-time effect of EUR7.7
billion. The at-equity result decreased by just under EUR1.4 billion since earnings from the BBA
joint venture were only included until 10th February.
Free cash flow in the Automotive segment totaled EUR9.9 billion at the end of September. It
includes an inflow totaling EUR5 billion from the acquisition of BBA's liquid funds in the first
quarter. In the third quarter, free cash flow stood at EUR2.1 billion primarily due to the higher
operating profit. In the fourth quarter too, we will see increased investments in electromobility.
We also expect higher advance tax payments as a result of business profit.
For the full year, we are therefore still targeting a free cash flow of at least EUR10 billion. In the
Financial Services segment just over 1.18 million new contracts were concluded with retail
customers in the first nine months of the year. This decrease of 21.9% from the previous year
reflects higher interest rates in general and the price increases associated with them. At the
same time, competition remains intense in the financial services sector. In addition, the tight
supply situation over the course of the year led to limited availability of new vehicles. Thanks to
our strong product mix and higher transaction prices, we have been able to partially offset the
downtick in the new contracts with the higher contract volume of finance vehicles. The volume of
new business from all financing and leasing contracts with retail customers was therefore only
13.2% lower than for the same period of last year.
Segment earnings before tax for the first nine months amounted to nearly EUR2.7 billion which
represents a decrease by 8.6% compared to the strong prior-year. We continue to see high
income from the resale of our end of lease vehicles, especially in US and Europe. In contrast tolast year, the macroeconomic parameters and overall conditions for consumers have
deteriorated. For this reason, we recognized higher provisions for credit risk in the third quarter.
Nevertheless, the credit loss ratio currently remains at a historically low level. In the Motorcycles
segment, we sold just over 159,000 units from our attractive product portfolio by the end of
September. This means we were once again able to surpass the result for the same period of
last year by 1.7%.Segment EBIT for the first nine months was on par with last year at EUR322
million. The EBIT margin came in at 13%.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now move on to the outlook for our key performance indicators.
Owing for the full consolidation of BBA we expect Group pretax earnings to be significantly
higher. The number of group employees will also increase significantly due to the integration of
BBA's staff. In the Automotive segment, we anticipate a significant year-on-year increase in
deliveries in the fourth quarter. We're therefore able to confirm our guidance for the full year
targeting slightly lower sales. The percentage of deliveries from electrified vehicles is also
forecast to increase significantly and the number of all-electric vehicles should more than double.
We expect the EBIT margin in the Automotive segment to be within the range of 7% to 9%. The
CEO -- the CO2 emissions performance indicator for our new EU vehicle fleet is developing
better than originally forecast. Driven by the rapid ramp up of our all-electric models, we now
expect a moderate reduction in CO2 emissions for our EU fleet for the full year rather than a
slight reduction.
In the Financial services segment, we can confirm our target range of 17% to 20% for our return
on equity. In the Motorcycles segment, we anticipate a slight increase in deliveries with an EBIT
margin within our target range of 8% to 10%. Our guidance is currently assumed -- is currently not
assumed that Russia's interruption of the gas supply will lead to a production standstill in 2022.
However, we do expect costs for energy materials and manufacturing to remain high.
The macroeconomic environment remains dominated with high inflation and rising interest rates.
This is causing conditions for consumers to deteriorate, which will affect their behavior in the
coming months. We therefore continue to expect our higher than average order books to
normalize, especially in Europe. Our guidance does not take into account any significant
tightening of sanctions against Russia or reactive measures by Russia. The possibility of the
conflict spreading outside of Ukraine or a significant prolonged lockdowns in response to the
pandemic are also not included in our guidance assumptions.
Ladies and gentlemen, although our environment remains volatile, the BMW Group is still on
course to meet its targets for financial year 2022. We expect to pay significant sales growth in the
fourth quarter. After increasing levels of production during the third quarter, we plan to reduce
inventories, especially in the overseas markets. We're also counting on high sales numbers for
our all-electric models given the strong customer demand for e-mobility.
A growing number of forecasts for 2022 predict that Germany and parts of Europe will enter into
recession. The US and China are likely to fare slightly better. Despite these signs, the BMW
Group's dynamic growth will continue. Thanks to our attractive product range and expertise in the
field of e-mobility, we are in a strong competitive position. Our globally balanced sales and
production strategy allows us to respond quickly and flexibly to different markets developments.
We are seeing continuing high demand for our products.
Our all-electric vehicles are especially popular. The BMW iX and BMW i4 are a hit with our
customers. Orders are particularly strong for both these models. The long wheel based version
of our 3 Series, the BMW i3 has been produced in China since the middle of the year and it's
been extremely well received in the Chinese market. The BMW iX1 and the BMW i7 will also be inthe showrooms before the end of the year. With the iX1 we're offering one of our high volume
models as a pure electric vehicle. This will provide the next impetus for our accelerated ramp-up
of electromobility. The all-electric i7 demonstrates the BMW Group's capacity for innovation like
no other vehicle. It sets new standards for digitalization and electrified driving experience.
Further momentum will come next year from the continued renewal of our product range. The
introduction of the BMW i5 is another important step towards electrification of our full model
lineup. Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group remains focused on the long term. We are setting
the course today for the successful future of our company. Our high profitability gives us the
room to invest in targeted and continuous manner in the long-term transformation of the BMW
Group. In September we presented the 6th generation of our BMW battery cell. The newly
developed BMW around cell is optimized for the future vehicle architecture of our Neue Klasse. It
represents an enormous technological leap, an increase of 20% in energy density, a 30%
increase in range and a 30% increase in charging speed. The cost for the high-voltage battery will
be reduced by up to 50%.
Our partners will be investing in a total of 6 factories to produce the BMW round cell in keeping
with our local for local strategy the site will be spread across the key regions of Europe, China
and the Americas. The next highlight on our road to the Neue Klasse will follow in January 2023.
At the CES in Las Vegas we will be unveiling our vision vehicle that will underpin our digital
expertise. The future of the BMW Group is electric, circular and digital. We are steering the BMW
Group prudently through current market volatilities while keeping our sights set firmly on the
future. We're in an excellent position to shape the transformation and achieve our long-term
strategic objectives.
Thank you. This was `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, member of the Board of Management Finance. We will now
start our Q&A session. I would like to ask my colleagues to now give the technical instructions for
the conference.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin with the Q&A session now. (Operator Instructions) Thank
you. First question is Wilfred Ecogerner [ph], your line is open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. I have a couple of questions. One about demand. How does demand currently
develop in Europe. It's somehow flattening. How large is your order book still in Europe and by
when are you able to fulfill orders in Europe and now in connection with that, Stellantis CFO
Palmer today said that he has concerns especially in Europe that demand will be slowing down in
the middle of next year. So what's BMW's opinion on that. Do you share that concern and are
there any indications already that demand at BMW and Europe could significantly decrease.
That's one thing.
The other topic I'd like to ask questions on is the current situation in Europe. Does BMW already
have to support its suppliers because they have trouble because of increased material and
energy costs and which measures are you taking? Are you giving discounts on prices on or
prepayments and then the third issue that relates to the e-cars, first of all, I'm not quite, I don't
quite understand in your former guidance sales of e-vehicle was more than double. And now
you're just talking about doubling. So what is the true guidance and to which extent is it -- this is in
China that you wanted to expand your position in electrified vehicles given the dominance of localsuppliers there. Does that give you rise to concerns and how do you want to compete with those
local compliance. And then the third question also relating to China with the Oxford Plant, the
MINI Plant, Great Wall said now that the e-Mini are produced in China, they said they might have
interest in that as well, you know, and like and trying to produce models of their brand in Oxford.
So what's your opinion on that.
Operator
Mr. Ecodona [ph], so we have received six questions from you to give a rough estimate. Instead
of three it is actually six, that's an increase by 100%. There we go. I mean we're trying to give an
answer to each one of those questions, but we're trying to be brief so that others have an
opportunity to ask their questions as well. Let me begin with the beginning. The first question
related to demand in Europe, then the supply situation, then e-mobility specifically in China. And
then there was a question about the Oxford Plant and Great Wall. Mr. Peter, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Let's begin with e-mobility Mr. Ecodona. More than doubling. If you look at the figures as per
September, we are pretty good on track especially with the i4 and the iX but also with MINI
electric and iX3, we've got pretty good order book and with the i7 that we've just presented to
the media, we have already received great feedback and as of the weekend, you'll be able to
read about it in the press as well. And with iX1, we now have a very strong volume model that will
be launched. It's fully electric and we're right on track here as well. So there is more than doubling
to be expected.
Second question relating to demand. We continue to have a pretty full order book in Europe and
it will remain, so way into the year 2023. But to be honest, this is not surprising if you look at the
current environment in Europe. In some important markets, we have pretty high 2-digit inflation.
We're talking about above 10% given and at the same time increasing interest rates, increasing
costs for energy. So it's quite understandable that demand would flatten out somehow. However
in September and also now in October with the introduction of the X1 you see, especially for
Europe, the X1 is a very important model and again we've had -- have been able to generate
quite good momentum. So this is why we're making this balanced forecast. We do see a slight
decrease in new orders coming in, especially we see fewer orders coming in from the South
European markets. A few, I mean, in France, the level of inflation is somewhat lower and we see
more of that in fact in Germany and in England. Then the suppliers, do we support any of them.
Well, this is a known fact in the industry. We have a pretty good relationship with our suppliers.
There is no such thing as a general statement from us. I mean, we truly have a very dedicated
consideration of individual cases. We're in a continuous exchange which each individual supplier
and for this reason, we are quite optimistic that despite the complex underlying situation, we will
be able to maintain our production as planned. Next question related to the Oxford plant.
Basically what I can say is the Oxford plant is an integral component of BMW production structure
and let's say, it's the heart of MINI production and it will remain so. In Oxford, we will see the next
generation of the 3 door and 5 door hatch models of the MINI Cooper, and in addition to that, I
don't know whether that's a well-known fact already, the MINI convertible will return to Oxford in
2025 and further plans will then be announced at suitable a time.
Operator
Thank you so much. Mr. Ecodona [ph] from Bloomberg. Next question please. Marcus Klassen,
Thar James [ph].Q - Unidentified Participant
Hello to Munich, thanks for giving us the opportunity to ask questions. I have 3 questions. What
were the reasons to confirm the forecast for the range. It's up at the upper end and you have
confirmed that but in view of what you said about September business, which was very good, if
you look at Germany in October, I guess, there'll be a leap in sales. It could very well be that you
could actually be above the forecasted range. Little disappointed there actually that to only
confirmed your guidance and could you perhaps give the reasons for that. Second question is
price development. In the current year and also previously it was pretty good, development of
prices you said new cars. Now for the next year, what do you expect. Will that remained stable.
And the third question on the outlook for 2023. Peter, you said that the growth momentum at
BMW will continue. Does that relate to sales or revenues or is that more something like a general
guidance. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, Mrs. Carlson. Let me summarize. Margin confirmed, why not an increase, then the
price development, also expectations for 2023 and growth dynamics next year. Well, Mr. Peter,
please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Margin confirmed, I think that's good news, isn't it? We are confirming our guidance and
we'll be at the upper end of our range. We continue to have a positive effect, especially as you
rightly mentioned in terms of volume, we're doing well in terms of volume and September also
proves this. And in terms of price, we're doing well too. However, as I mentioned in my speech,
we have slightly higher logistics costs and material costs and all of that has the effect that from
today's point of view, we are assuming that we will end up at the higher end of our range price
development, 2023, but it's too early to say anything. And this sort of answers your third question
as well. It's really too early to give a guidance right now but due to our good product momentum
and despite a difficult environment and or volatile environment as I described, we are quite
confident for 2023. Why is that? Well, there'll be a new X1 coming an iX1, a very, very important
model for us. And that will certainly give us some momentum and at the upper segment of our
portfolio we will have the new 7 Series and the i7. We are receiving lots of orders for that already.
Then there'll be a revised X7, again, a product which plays an important role for our margin,
makes an important contribution. So in the course of the year, there'll be a 5 series coming in. All
of this is positive inputs in order to have good momentum despite a difficult environment. Now
quite specifically talking about price development, here we continue to see, and this is also due
to the leasing markets, I mean we have pretty good residual values. They are very stable in the
US and also in the large leasing markets of Germany and UK and we're assuming that this will also
continue next year. Because in 2023, the first end of fleet vehicles will be coming back from the
COVID years. So due to COVID it simply had less production, fewer sales and there's fewer cars
being returned and this will obviously have an effect on price quality in 2023.
Operator
Thank you, Markus Klassen. Next question please. `Christina Amann, Analyst, Thomson Reuters, Thomson Reuters.
Q - `Christina Amann, Analyst, Thomson Reuters
Good morning, Mr. Peter. Good morning, Mr. Schoberl. You already gave some answers regarding
pricing dynamics next year. Mr. Peter earlier you talked about residual values. Now, how about theprices. You don't want to give any discounts in order to strengthen sales. What's the BMW
strategy here compared. And then second topic, energy. You mentioned that BMW is not
assuming in the current year that they will be having to reduce production due to gas shortage
but what about the entire winter. I mean, until March, April, whatever. I mean we're starting late
right now but it can still get pretty cold even in April. So have you hedged against that as well. Or
can you make some more detailed comments on that. And then the margin, the range of 7% to
9% was reduced coming from the long-term range of 8% to 10%. Now the 8% to 10% range, is
that something that you're envisaging again for next year. Or is it too early to comment on it. And
then about China. Mr. Zipse is traveling with Mr. Scholz. He is going to China today. So what's your
opinion on the market development there.
Operator
Thank you, Ms. Amann. Four points, let me summarize. The first one is about price dynamics,
residual values, the BMW strategy concerning discount. Then the cold winter, especially between
January and March. What are the effects of the gas problem, then the margin and then the
market development in China. Mr. Peter?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, Ms. Amann, I think I'll begin with the margin; 7 to 9. We're at the upper end of this range
which means we're also within as you rightly said the very long-term range of 8% to 10%. Now, as
we had explained and as we have communicated, I mean, if you consider that special effect from
BBA from the full consolidation and if you take that out, then we are in fact above the range in
2022. We're in the 2-digit, at a 2-digit figure. And this I think underlines the profitability and the
resilience of the BMW Group. The question relating to 2022. As you can imagine we will answer
that or we will talk about it together when we meet again March next year. It's simply too early
now. Based in today's knowledge [ph] and I think a lot of positive things happen politically. We're
not assuming that there will be any interruptions in production over the course of the winter in the
European markets. So that's, at least that's our assumption. We ourselves well, a reduction of
about 15% is something we could imagine. We'd be okay with that. And as far as the price
dynamics and the residual values are concerned, I mean, we have further improved our
processes in particular. So the balance between supply and demand together with our dealers
and the most important markets, we agreed that we'll work with slightly less inventory. And that's
in fact, I mean the positive price dynamics, they will be supported by that. China and further
market development, it's like I said, we're not pessimistic as far as China is concerned. Right now,
we have a mix of, well, it's an up and down. Why is that? That's because of the COVID situation.
Basically there's pretty good demand for our products. However, due to lockdowns, repeated
lockdowns we keep having these interruptions. So a little more than 10% of our operations in
China are closed due to COVID. And of course that also affect sales. But we're assuming that
over the next few weeks this will become more balanced once we get to see a more positive
development in infections to those COVID measures.
Thank you. The next question please.
Operator
Antube Thomas Blatt [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning and thank you for your time. I have 2 brief questions. One about Mr. Zipse traveling
to China. Mr. Peter, why has the Board of Management come to the conclusion that it's a goodidea to do that now that the timing isn't maybe a bad sign and in many status, this would be seen
as legitimation of the authoritative or the political course of Mr. Xi Jinping. And is there any
reactions from your partners in the US to that and the other thing most recently, I think it was in
US where Mr. Zipse emphasized it would be dangerous if only very few wealthy people could
afford new cars. What does BMW actually do in order to make such a new car more affordable?
Operator
Okay, I'll summarize your questions. Mr. Blatt [ph]. The first one related to China, participation of
Mr. Zipse in the trip and possible reactions from the US that I'm not aware of. I can tell you that
now already. And then second part of your question was mobility being affordable and what does
BMW do to keep new cars affordable. Mr. Peter?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Let's start. Why is it basically a good idea to to talk to partners in China. There is a couple of very
important elements. First of all, from our point of view the cooperation with China is
indispensable also in order to be able to implement important political things for the Green Deal,
for example, China is not a risk but it's an opportunity. China presents an opportunity and we
have a high interest in taking this opportunity by talking with each other and by then implementing
corresponding projects and this is important in particular. Bear in mind that, you know, China
together with US is our most important foreign market. It was more than 2 years ago that we
went to China last time and this is now a good time. It's a good opportunity to to restart our
discussions. Especially when I talk about eMobility, China will be a very important driver. We're
assuming that by 2030 at least 50% and you know our sales figures, and we expect a 50% of our
sales in China will be fully electric vehicles and we are on a good track here, I mentioned the i3,
the iX1. It is manufactured there. There'll be further models fully electric vehicles coming from
China and what's really important in this context is the relationship with our partners in China. This
is something that happened on high level and in order to make this possible, it's very important
to talk to each other. The second question, affordability. I mean, BMW is a premium car
manufacturer. We are in the premium business; MINI, BMW and Rolls-Royce, with all three brands.
Still, nonetheless, it's important to us in order to also secure our sustainable profitability to
continue to work on our cost structure and for this reason, we decided to start the Neue Klasse
and the 6th generation of battery cell technology to take the next steps there. I mentioned that
this next generation depending on the vehicle can actually reduce cost by up to 50% and it's
quite a decisive step on the way to electrification and implementation of the Green Deal.
Thank you. Next question please.
Operator
(inaudible) Frick.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. I have two questions. One that also touches on China. Do you think or is that, is it
your strategy in the future to produce even more vehicles in China and then to export them into
other regions of the world such as the e-Mini for example? And then another question relating to
the economic outlook for Europe. You said you're expecting a recession. So what are the factors
of economic development in Europe next year that you're most worried about? Thank you.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `Thank you, Mr. Frick. So that's China and the outlook in the EU. Well, Mr. Frick, BMW is probably
one of the car manufacturer that has the best geographic distribution across the world. We are
very strong in Europe. We are firmly anchored here. We have the largest plant in the US but also
very strong in Asia. And talking about strength in Asia, we must not only talk about China. We also
need to talk about markets such as Korea, a market that is developing very, very well or Japan,
we are quite confident there as well. So this is really a very, very balanced picture. Production in
China it's mostly for the Chinese market and most of the production in China is intended for the
Chinese market. With the MINI Electric, we will then also export to other markets but in view of
the truly excellent quality of the product, we think this is the right step and it's a little more than 2
years ago that we already communicated this step. Outlook of EU and recession. Well, I've
mentioned the factors that are important in Europe. It's increase in interest rates, inflation, but in
particular in the large markets such as Germany and UK, I already said that the picture in South
Europe is slightly different market such as Italy, France and also Spain but these are the factors
that we are keeping an eye on but still we're assuming that is despite the difficult situation
because of our strong portfolio we can go into next year with confidence because we're coming
with products, with fully electrified products which go very well in those economic conditions and
as I just mentioned. In the UKL segment we are launching products of which convinced they can
also make a major contribution.
Operator
Thank you for the questions by Mr. Frick. We now have about 10 minutes left. Can I ask for the
next question please. Via panel [ph] Thank you for the question. So this is about sales increases
due to price increases and reasons for that. Mr. Peter, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, firstly in the most important markets, we increased the prices slightly more than in the past
few years and this applies to all important markets really at the same time and you can see quite
nicely if you look at auto data figures. This was done because our products are highly desirable so
the incentive level was brought down on a very low level. At the same time as I have mentioned,
this is also the way that we continue to optimize supply and demand. We want to make sure that
we have high overall price stability. These are the major reasons that play a role here.
Operator
Thank you. Next question please. Nanad Bamko, Automobile World [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you, Mr. (inaudible) just recently started a discussion where he said it would be okay to
reintroduce car-free Sundays or a speed limits. What's your opinion on this in order to save
energy.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Simple answer. We don't think that any of this is a good idea.
Operator
Okay. Thank you, Mr. Peter. Next question please. Hening Vackmere [ph].
Q - Unidentified ParticipantGood morning, everyone. Mr. Peter, I have another question on China. The joint venture with
Great Wall. Can you describe precisely how that works. How many MINIs will be exported from the
Chinese plant, just a percentage or a rough number. The local for local. I understand that but in
the case of MINI, I guess that doesn't apply. And the second question will Great Wall produce
combustion engine cars of its own brand in Oxford.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Let's begin with the second part of the question. Currently this is not planned. Production of
combustion engine cars in Oxford is not something we're planning and for further plans, I guess
you'd have to direct your questions to the Great Wall management. The joint ventures spotlight in
China, that's a joint venture for development and production. We've had several test drives and
these are truly excellent vehicles that we have developed jointly and that we will produce. There'll
be about 3,000 employees working in that plant and these are investments that we made jointly
of around slightly or around EUR650 million. Great Wall products will also be built in that plant and
in all the capacity will be of around 160,000 vehicles per year. And we're now entering the final
phase of preparation of series production of our MINI products there. Thank you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Can I just ask again because you didn't answer my question. So about half 80,000 vehicles will
then be electric Minis and those will then also be exported. I wanted to know what percentage.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, the ramp-up phase. That's 160,000 vehicles and how many of those will then be exported
or will remain in China, that will depend on demand. We are flexible. It really depends on market
development in the global regions on the one hand and in China, on the other hand. It's
important to be flexible here.
Operator
Thank you very much. Okay. We have time for 2 more questions. Next question please. Mirko
Hatka, Plateau Brief [ph]
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. I have 2 brief questions. Peter, could you tell me something about the future
dividend payout policy at BMW. You'll have an extremely good result this year. Is it safe to
conclude that that will be reflected in the payout of dividends. For a long time there has been
discussion about a more flexible dividend payment policy. And the second question with respect
to the end of combustion engine cars in the EU. So far, when it came to battery production, BMW
always relied on partnerships. Will you want to do that in the future or can you exclude that you'll
be producing your own batches in the future.
Operator
Thanks. Mr. Hatka. Mr. Peter, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, let's begin with the dividend policy for 2022, 2023. What exactly we will do is something that
will decide after we've had our financial accounts drawn up. In the past at least I do not recall that
we had a more flexible or discussed a more flexible dividend policy. We have a pretty soundstructure in place and from our point of view, from the current point of view, there is no reason to
deviate from that. Then production of our own battery cells. We will briefly or shortly be opening a
small cell manufacturing plant in Passoff [ph] near Munich and this will enable us after the opening
of our battery center near Munich to truly cover the entire process of development and
manufacturer of battery cells and moreover the manufacturer of the battery modules. Well, to a
major portion, this is already something that's being done in-house. This is not done by suppliers.
Q - Unidentified Participant
But I actually thought in this context, I thought of a greater scale of sales and that's something
you haven't done yet.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
No, we're not planning anything like that. I mean we've just communicated what we're planning to
do in the US and here too we'll be working with a partner.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much. And if I can see and as I can hear, there are no further questions. I would
like to say thank you to `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer for answering all the questions. So thanks `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer for
answering the questions, thanks to the colleagues for their time today and our conference call for
Q3 is over. Thank you and all the best to you. Good bye from Munich.