Q3 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr.Chris Stevo,
Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President & Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Chelsea. Good morning. Welcome to Pfizer's third quarter earnings call. We anticipate
that this call will last 60 minutes. I'm joined today by Dr.`Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, our Chairman and CEO;
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO; and Dr.`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and, President of Worldwide Research & Development
and Medical.
Joining for the Q&A session, we will also have `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business, Chief Commercial Officer and
President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business; `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Business Innovation Officer;
Dr.`William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Development Officer; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel.
Before we begin the call, I'm also happy to announce that we will host Analyst Day in New York
City on the afternoon of December 12. Members of our executive team and other leaders at
Pfizer will share information on our rich slate of potential near-term product launches, and theR&D readouts which will drive the next wave of product launches after that, both of which will
support our 2030 revenues and beyond.
In-person attendance will be by invitation, but we will also be webcasting the event. While we're
not going to talk more about the agenda today, we look forward to providing more details as we
get closer to December 12.
Materials for this call and other earnings related materials on the Investor Relations section of
pfizer.com. Please see our forward-looking statements disclaimer on Slide 4, and additional
information regarding these statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our
earnings release, and in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q under risk factors and forward-looking
information and factors that may affect future results.
Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties, speak
only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of
these statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Chris. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I will briefly touch on some
recent highlights. I will then spend the bulk of my time speaking to our expectations for what we
feel will be a promising and prosperous future for Pfizer and the patients we serve, in addition to
generating stellar financial performance.
Since our last earnings call, we reported positive pivotal data for several exciting pipeline
programs, including our RSV vaccine candidate for older adults, Prevnar 20 for children, the
potential combination treatment of Talzenna and Xtandi in men with metastatic castration-
resistant prostate cancer, our pentavalent meningococcal vaccine candidate for adolescence and
young adults, as well as exciting progress our -- for our GLP-1 Program in Type 2 diabetes and
obesity.
This morning, we announced positive top-line data from the Phase 3 clinical trial, investigating our
bivalent RSV vaccine candidate, when administered to pregnant participants to help protect their
infants from RSV disease after birth. We established a new commercial structure within our Global
Biopharmaceuticals Business that is focused on three broad therapeutic areas - Primary Care,
Specialty Care and Oncology.
We believe this new structure will enable us to maximize the commercial success of the multiple
exciting product launches, including several potential blockbusters that are poised to emerge
from our scientific pipeline over the next few years. We have continued to advance potentially
game changing vaccines in the fight against respiratory disease by entering into a Phase 3 study
for our mRNA flu vaccine candidate and initiating a Phase 1 study for a vaccine candidate that
combines our mRNA flu and COVID-19 vaccine in one shop.
We completed the acquisitions of Biohaven Pharmaceuticals and Global Blood Therapeutics,
giving us market-leading franchises in both migraine and sickle cell disease respectively. Less than
six months ago after launching in a core, for a healthier world, a breakthrough initiative designed
to close the health equity gap for 1.2 billion people living in 45 lower-income countries. I am proud
to say that the first shipments of our products have arrived to these countries, and we are
working with governments on health system improvements that can help make sure these
products reach those in need.And of course, we continue to lead the fight against COVID-19. Most notably our Omicron-
adapted bivalent COVID-19 vaccine has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, by the European Medicines Agency and several other regulatory bodies. And as
part of Pfizer's commitment to providing equitable access to COVID-19 oral treatments, we
agreed to supply at a not-for-profit price up to 6 million Paxlovid treatments, courses to the
Global Fund for low- and lower-middle-income countries.
An exciting quarter for sure, but in our company and in our industry, it's all about what's next? The
next breakthrough medicine or vaccine, the next game changing technology, the next solution to
an unmet patient need. This continued pursuit of what's next is embedded in Pfizer's DNA and
the foundational driver of our purpose, breakthroughs that change patients(cid:0) lives. It's also why
we have confidence that Pfizer's story is a story of growth.
We recognize that some are questioning Pfizer's longer-term growth prospects, particularly in the
'25 to '30 timeframe. That's understandable, given that we currently expect a negative impact of
approximately $17 billion in revenues from losses of exclusivity during that period, based on our
internal calculations. We believe we not only can overcome these expected declines, but also can
potentially generate strong growth through the end of the decade.
Let's take a closer look on how we expect to accomplish this. Our strong capital position has
given us the ability to pursue business development opportunities, with the potential if
successful, of course, to add at least $25 billion of risk-adjusted revenues to our 2030 top-line
expectations. We believe the deals we have already done for Arena, Biohaven, Global Blood
Therapeutics and ReViral have the potential to get us more than one-third of the way there, and
that we have more than enough capital to invest in the additional opportunities needed to meet
or exceed this target.
Perhaps even more exciting is the wave of potential growth drivers emerging from our R&D
pipeline in the near term. Over the next 18 months, we expect to have up to 19 new products or
indications in the market, including the five for which we have already begun pro-promotions, co-
promotions or commercialization earlier this year.
We can find -- you can find at least of these launches in the appendix of the presentation we
posted today for this earnings call. If successful, these 19 launches of which more than two-thirds
have the potential to be blockbusters, would be the most ever in Pfizer's history.
The 15 in-house developed projects alone could potentially represent approximately $20 billion in
2030 sales, which would more than offset the expected LOE impact. Many of these programs
are already largely de-risked from a clinical perspective, the majority of them were discovered in-
house, and nearly all of them would be for indications outside of COVID-19.
If approved, we expect each of these to be key contributors to our growth aspirations through
2025 and beyond. And of course, we have many more potential vaccines and medicines in our
pipeline with numerous launches expected in the '24 to '30 timeline. These include gene therapy
candidates for hemophilia A, B and Duchenne muscular dystrophy, our oral GLP-1 for diabetes and
obesity, the potential combo vaccine that would cover flu and COVID in one shot and many, many
more.
With regard to our COVID-19 products, while their sales may fall from our expected 2022 levels
of approximately combined 55 billion, we believe our COVID-19 franchises will remain multibillion
dollar revenue generators for the foreseeable future, which should serve as a buffer for any
foreseen challenges with other products in our portfolio. Our confidence to execute this plan,stems from the depth of our financial resources and the firepower it gives us to pursue business
development opportunities.
The power brand equity we have built up over the past 170 years and further enhanced in the
past two years. According to a recent survey, our brand awareness now stands at an impressive
82%, and our favorability stands at 61%, compared with 42% for the industry as a whole, results
that were obtained just couple of months ago.
As -- and of course, the strength of the three foundational pillars of our company, our world-class
scientific, our world-class commercial and our world-class manufacturing engines, and you will see
in this Slide, some highlights of each one of them.
Let me now briefly highlight three potential blockbusters that we expect to contribute to our
long-term growth. RSV is an area of significant unmet need, particularly in older adults and infants,
this year it's estimated more than 177,000 older adults are hospitalized and 14,000 of them die in
the U.S. alone due to RSV, but is confirmed by a diagnostic test. We believe we have the potential
to be a leader in the space, and have a real impact on public health.
On March 24 of this year, the FDA granted breakthrough designation for our RSV vaccine
candidate for the prevention of lower respiratory tract disease, caused by RSV individuals, 60
years of age or older. We are excited to report positive top-line data from the Phase 3 RENOIR
trial in late August with a recent presentation of detailed results at ID week '22, a pre-planned
interim analysis.
So vaccine efficacy of 67% against RSV associated lower respiratory tract illness, defined by two
or more symptoms and vaccine efficacy of 85.7% was observed in participants with more severe
disease, presenting three or more RSV associated symptoms of lower respiratory tract illness.
We are also excited about the potential for our Maternal RSV vaccine candidate. Globally, this year
RSV sickens more than 6.5 million infants under six months old and kills approximately 45,000. As
announced this morning, our Maternal RSV study met the success criterion for one of the two
primary endpoints, vaccine efficacy of 81.8% was observed against severe medically attended
lower respiratory tract illness, due to RSV, in infants from birth through the first 90 days of life,
and high efficacy of 69.4% was demonstrated through the first six months of life.
So there is the potential that subject to regulatory approval by late 2023, early 2024, we could
have the only RSV maternal vaccine on the market, along with an RSV vaccine for older adults, but
with higher efficacy and it is well-tolerated with no safety concerns.
Combined, the two indications represent a potential multibillion dollar revenue opportunities
approved, especially with our highly respected Primary Care sales force, executing these
launches. Including the RSV antiviral investigational candidates, we acquired with ReViral, we aim
to have end-to-end solutions with both, preventive vaccines and therapeutics to treat those
infected with RSV.
Ulcerative colitis or UC, is a chronic and often debilitating inflammatory bowel disease that affects
an estimated 1 million people in the U.S. alone. Mainly patients living with this disease never
achieve or maintain remission, and physicians are seeking effective, proven, oral therapies, with a
favorable benefit risk profile that can be an attractive first-line advanced therapy option. As a
result, we expect the market opportunity to grow by about 50% over the next five years.
The positive phase 3 data from the ELEVATE UC-12 and -52 trials reinforce our belief that
Etrasimod has a differentiated clinical profile and can be an important treatment option, ifapproved. We believe that Etrasimod can be a multi-billion-dollar blockbuster product. We expect
to launch the product in the U.S. as soon as the second half of 2023, pending regulatory approval,
through our Specialty Care sales force, which already has strong relationships in the UC market,
thanks to its work with Xeljanz, biosimilars, etc cetera.
Lastly, let's look at migraine. Following our acquisition of Biohaven in early October, we are now
aiming to build the world's leading global migraine franchise with the potential to impact 1 billion
patients around the world. Migraine is a debilitating disease and has 11.6% prevalence worldwide.
In the U.S. alone, there are 40 million patients with migraine, and one out of five women are
migraine sufferers right now.
The economic burden is significant at $36 billion per year. We believe our portfolio, including
Nurtec ODT, Vydura and zavegepant could meet a range of needs in the market, allowing
physicians and patients to decide how to appropriately manage migraine treatment and
prevention. As a result, we see the potential to reach more than $6 billion in peak revenues,
together - all together.
In the U.S., Nurtec is growing very well. Including the impact of Pfizer's co-promoting, which began
in August pre-close, Nurtec has further strengthened its number one market share position in the
oral CGRP market. And we expect even stronger growth as we deliver on our promise to further
enhance our commercial efforts behind this product. Outside the U.S., it has been approved in
the EU, UK, Israel, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, and we have filed for registration in an additional
10 markets.
While this is not a new product launch, we believe this is a great example of how we can take this
portfolio to new heights, by leveraging the full strength of Pfizer's global commercial engine,
including in primary care physicians.
Moving over to zavegepant, we currently expect to launch zavegepant intranasal in the U.S. next
year, pending FDA approval, and we plan to globally commercialize.
Lastly, the oral prevention Phase 3 trial is ongoing with a data readout expected in the third
quarter.
So with that, I turn it over to Dave to update you on the results and outlook for the financials.
After Dave, Mikael will speak about the progression of our pipeline.
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert, and good morning. I'll begin this morning with a few comments regarding how
the company continues to deploy capital in a disciplined manner, in support of long-term growth
and importantly enhanced shareholder returns.
As you know, Pfizer's cash generation capabilities have -- has expanded significantly over the past
several years, and the efficient deployment of this capital is more critical than ever. During the
first nine months of 2022, the company has deployed and committed capital in three main areas.
First, we have invested $7.8 billion in internal R&D as we continue to support our growing pipeline
of innovative medicines. These investments are squarely focused on driving revenue growth
through 2030.
Secondly, in the first three quarters of this year, we have invested approximately $8 billion in
completed business transactions. Additionally, early in the fourth quarter, the company completed
investments of more than $18 billion in transactions, including both Biohaven and GBT, whichbrings us to approximately $26 billion in capital deployed for business development transactions,
thus far in 2022 alone. These transactions illustrate our progress toward the goal of adding $25
billion in risk-adjusted 2030 revenues through BD.
And finally, we have returned nearly $9 billion of capital to shareholders through a combination of
both dividends and value-enhancing share repurchases. Clearly, maximizing shareholder value
through prudent capital allocation will continue to be a major focus for Pfizer. So with that, let me
briefly review our financial results for the quarter. I'll limit my remarks largely to adjusted and
operating growth figures.
Third-quarter revenues demonstrated strength across many areas of the business, but much of
that strength was somewhat obscured by our incredibly strong performance in the third quarter
of 2021.
Given the strength in the prior year, revenues this quarter decreased 2% operationally. However,
looking at it on a two-year basis, revenues this quarter were up more than 120% compared to the
third quarter of 2020. The slight decrease compared to last year was in line with our
expectations, given the phasing of scheduled deliveries of Comirnaty, which we discussed in our
earnings call last quarter.
Also underlying our results this quarter was the strong performance of Paxlovid as well as
continued strength from a number of our other key products. Excluding direct sales and alliance
revenues related to the COVID products, Pfizer's revenues grew 2% operationally in the quarter.
Gross margins expanded by 1,450 basis points versus the third quarter of LY. This improvement is
largely due to increased sales of higher-margin Paxlovid and decreased sales of lower gross
margin Comirnaty compared to last year.
These improvements were partially offset by the impact of a $400 million charge, related to
excess raw materials for Paxlovid. Given the unpredictable nature of the virus, we intentionally
chose to order additional stock to ensure we can meet any global health demand if an extreme
need were to arise. Adjusted SI&A expenses in the third quarter grew 23% operationally. The
increase was primarily driven by spending for Paxlovid and Comirnaty and higher healthcare
reform fees.
The 2% operational increase in adjusted R&D expense in Q3 was primarily driven by increased
costs to develop recently acquired assets as well as investments for certain oncology and non-
COVID-19 vaccines programs. This was partially offset by lower spending on programs to prevent
and treat COVID-19, and various late-stage clinical programs.
The effective tax rate on adjusted income in the quarter was 4.4%, significantly lower than typical,
driven by tax benefits related to global income tax resolutions in multiple tax jurisdictions
spanning several tax years. Excluding these tax resolutions, the underlying tax rate was consistent
with historical trends.
As a result, reported diluted earnings per share of $1.51 grew by 6%, while adjusted diluted
earnings per share of $1.78 grew 44% on an operational basis for the quarter. Now foreign
exchange movements continue to dampen our results, negatively impacting revenues by
approximately $950 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share by $0.05 this quarter.
Now let me move to our updated 2022 guidance. Given our strong third-quarter performance
and our improving outlook for the year, we are increasing our operational expectations for
revenues by $1.7 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share by $0.19.This operational increase on the bottom line would have been even higher if not for an
incremental $0.06 negative impact, due to higher acquired IPR&D expenses. Partially offsetting
these operational increases is the impact of additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar since the
last updated guidance in late July. Incremental foreign exchange movements negatively impacted
our expectations for 2022 revenues and adjusted diluted earnings per share by $700 million and
$0.09 respectively.
The net impact of these cross-currents result in increases to the midpoint of our revenue and
adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance ranges. These revised ranges reflect operational
growth rates of 31% for revenues and 70% for adjusted diluted earnings per share at the
midpoint, compared to 2021. And this was up from our previous operational growth expectations
for revenues and adjusted diluted earnings per share of 29% and 65%, respectively.
Regarding our COVID-19-related revenues, we now expect the vaccine revenue for the year to
be approximately $34 billion, up by $2 billion compared to our prior guidance.
For Paxlovid, we expect sales of approximately $22 billion, keeping the guidance range
unchanged despite the negative incremental impact of changes in FX.
You can see on this slide our updated costs and expense guidance which incorporates our
performance to date, our recent acquisitions and our updated expectations for the remainder of
the year. More information on each of these updates can be found in this morning's press
release. 2022 guidance once again assumes no incremental share repurchases beyond the $2
billion of share repurchases we completed in March of 2022.
In closing, it's an exciting time in the history of Pfizer. We believe that our strong financial
performance in the quarter and our improving operational outlook for the year sets the stage for
long-term shareholder value creation.
With that, I'll now turn it over to Mikael.
`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you, Dave. Today, I will focus attention on high-value programs that will potentially deliver
breakthroughs in areas of high unmet need and are expected to be key contributors to our
growth aspirations through 2025 and beyond.
With anchor products such as Comirnaty, Paxlovid, Ibrance, And Xtandi, we are building out
comprehensive franchises in several areas, including respiratory, metabolic disorders, genetic
hematology and certain cancers. We have deep expertise in these areas and there is exciting
science emerging. I will share updates from three of these today, respiratory, metabolic and
prostate cancer.
Building on our success with Comirnaty and Paxlovid, we see enormous potential to help address
major causes of respiratory disease through vaccines and therapeutics. Work on the next-
generation vaccine candidates are well underway and last week we started a Phase 1 clinical trial
of our second-generation oral therapeutic candidate.
Our quadrivalent modRNA flu program has progressed into Phase 3, and we will start shortly a
Phase 1 study of an mRNA-based vaccine candidate that combines our quadrivalent modRNA flu
vaccine candidate with the Omicron-adapted bivalent COVID-19 vaccine, based on BA.4/ BA.5. In
RSV, we believe a dual focus on developing a vaccine and antivirals could make a significant
impact globally. I will share new data with you shortly.Paxlovid continues to be an important tool in helping to combat the impact of COVID-19. And
secondary endpoints from the EPIC-High Risk study as well as data from real world evidence,
support the product's efficacy profile.
In the EPIC-HR study, Paxlovid reduced COVID-19-related all-cause deaths and ICU admissions by
100% and COVID-19-related hospitalizations by 86% in unvaccinated high-risk patients, compared
to placebo. It also reduced the duration of COVID-19 symptoms by two to three days, compared
to placebo.
We are pleased to see Paxlovid leading the COVID-19 treatment landscape and remain confident
in its safety and efficacy in treating patients at high-risk for severe outcomes.
We recently reported a positive interim analysis from a Phase 3 study in older adults of our novel
RSV vaccine candidate, which targets the pre-fusion F protein on both RSV A and B without need
for an adjuvant. We saw remarkable vaccine efficacy across the first RSV season. The vaccine was
extremely well-tolerated, with favorable systemic tolerability, a key consideration for vaccines.
We also are developing the RSVpreF vaccine candidate for use in pregnant women, so that
protection may be conferred to newborns, and this morning we announced exciting results from
a pre-planned interim analysis of our Phase 3 trial. We observed vaccine efficacy of nearly 82%
against severe, medically attended, lower respiratory tract illness or MA-LRTI due to RSV in infants
from birth through the first 90 days of life, and efficacy of more than 69% through the first six
months of life.
Success criterion was not met for the second primary endpoint, however, clinically meaningful
efficacy was observed with MA-LRTI of 57% in infants from birth, through 90 days of life, and
efficacy of 51% over the six months follow-up period.
The Data Monitoring Committee indicated the vaccine was well tolerated with no safety concerns
for either vaccinated women or their newborns. Given these impressive results, we look forward
to filing BLA for both older adults and pregnant women with the U.S. FDA by year-end with
potential launches in '23. If approved, our maternal RSV vaccine candidate, potentially would be
the first available to help prevent its common and potentially life-threatening respiratory illness in
young infants.
Turning now to prostate cancer. We're building upon the standard of care set by Xtandi in
castration-sensitive and castration-resistant population. The Phase 3 EMBARK Study of Xtandi in
non-metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer is expected to read-out first half of '23, and
the Phase 3 TALAPRO-3 study of Talzenna and Xtandi is expected in '24.
These trials may indicate benefit in up to 20% more patients than are currently treated, and
potentially prolonged duration of use, subject to clinical success and regulatory approval. Now in
Talapro-2, we observed the first clinical benefit of a PARP inhibitor plus Xtandi in men with
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer with or without homologous recombination repair
or HRR gene mutation.
Irrespective of HRR gene mutation status, the study achieved its primary endpoint. The
combination delivered a significant and clinically meaningful improvement in radiographic
progression-free survival and appears to have resulted in the longest observed such a survival in
a randomized trial in this setting. We are encouraged by these results and believe that Talzenna
in prostate cancer may have blockbuster potential, subject to regulatory approval.Turning to metabolic disorders. I had previously shared that we are developing two oral GLP-1
receptor agonist, danuglipron and 1532. Recently presented Phase 1b data for 1532 show dose-
dependent reduction from baseline at four to six weeks in mean daily glucose, fasting plasma
glucose, HbA1c, and body weight.
Both candidates are potentially best-in-class and differentiated by offering full agonist which may
be required to achieve the same level of response as injectable GLP-1 receptor agonist while
offering a convenient once-daily dose for 1532. Glucose effect plateau at lower doses, while body
weight effects continue to improve at high doses.
The planned Phase 2b study will evaluate 1532 versus both oral semaglutide and placebo in type
2 diabetes and separately versus placebo in obesity. Using semaglutide as a comparator in the
type 2 diabetes arm, should allow us to observe potential early signs of differentiation in efficacy,
tolerability and safety.
We will evaluate doses up to 260 milligrams in this study, higher than the studies in the Phase 1b.
We plan to begin dosing soon and anticipate the readout in first quarter 2024.
The ongoing Phase 2b study of danuglipron in obesity with now once-monthly titration is
expected to complete second half of 2023.
Data from these studies will be available in relatively quick succession, and assuming clinical
success, allow us to select one based on efficacy, tolerability and dosing to advance to Phase 3 in
both type 2 diabetes and obesity.
In closing, we are excited about the developing science within these franchisees and share here
recent and anticipated milestones in the next 18 months. We look forward to continuing our
development, both for potential patient benefit and sustainable growth.
Thank you. Let me turn over to Chris to start Q&A.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President & Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Mikael. With that, let's start the Q&A session. We have about 30 minutes for this session.
We will answer as many questions as time permits.
And Investor Relations will be available after the call to answer any follow-up questions. Chelsea,
please go ahead and queue up the first question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is
open.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Umer, go ahead.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President & Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Sorry. Umer, are you there?Operator
Umer, your line is open. Please make sure you are not muted.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President & Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Chelsea, maybe we should --
Operator
Alright. We'll go to our next question. `Colin Bristow, UBS with UBS, your line is open.
Q - `Colin Bristow, UBS `
Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. On COVID-22, the expectations -- do we
expect anything from you here on the December 12 investor event? And then just more broadly
around this how are you thinking conceptually about guiding to this? Would it be similar to last
year, are you thinking of more for the scenario-based guiding? Anything there would be helpful.
And then just sort of a temperature check on business development, if you could update us on
your priorities and interests? And then from a deal perspective, just how big would you be willing
to go? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. On December 12, what you should expect, it is a good overview of our very important
new product launches in the coming 18 months, with more details about the science and the
market potential of those launches as well as some of the most important pipeline potential, new
medicines and vaccines, that they are not going to be launched in the next 18 months, but will be
launched in the period between '24 and '30.
Now for the BD priorities, I would ask Aamir to reiterate once more our strategy when it comes to
BD.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thanks for the question, Colin. The BD priorities remain consistent with what we've articulated
before. And principally, we are most excited about scientific substrate that has the potential for
patient breakthroughs. That's going to continue to be our north star.
We're looking for deals that accelerate our top-line growth in the back half of the decade. And
importantly, we're focused on opportunities where we can add substantial value, and that can
come in the form of either shaping the science or also accelerating our commercial momentum.
And if you look at the deals that we announced and closed in 2022 including Arena, Biohaven,
ReViral, and GBT, they would all be very consistent with those priorities.
We've said that we are agnostic to size of transaction. But you've also heard us be very clear
about the fact that cost synergy-driven deals is not where our focus is going to be. We're going
to be focused on driving growth through our BD.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Aamir. And also Dave, maybe you can also address the question about guidance on
COVID and are we going to provide it, and when for '23 et cetera?A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. Thank you, Albert. Maybe let me set the stage as it relates to COVID and the COVID
franchise. I think if you look out longer-term, the franchise is going to be a multi-billion dollar
franchise, and the respect that this is going to be somewhat like a flu -- sustained flu, but actually
more deadly than the flu. So therefore, I think the products, both from a vaccine and the therapy
perspective that Pfizer has developed are going to be quite relevant for many years to come.
Having said that, when we provide guidance for 2023, when it's appropriate to do so, we will give
investors a perspective on what our expectations are for the year, and we will break out that
guidance specifically, so you can hold us accountable for delivering on those revenue promises
when the time comes.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. Next caller please?
Operator
Next, we have `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor. Your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions here. So I wanted to ask you first-off, how do you think about
or maybe more color on how you think about the pushes and pulls in 2023? There's a lot of
moving parts there.
And then, secondly on your RSV franchise, there seems to be several players with drugs in
development, and they've all reported out positive data. So, curious how you think about this
market playing out over time? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yes. Let me say a few words about the push and pulls, and then I will ask Angela to complement
on it, speaking about how we see the RSV market.
Clearly, '23 is a very, very important year for us, given the unprecedented number of new
launches that we are going to have in the next 18 months. And most of them will happen in '23
and some beginning of the first quarter of '24.
We are launching products, not only a very big number of them, but only the internal ones, $20
billion, excluding the BD, Biohaven, and the Global Blood, $20 billion of peak sales were expected
-- 2030 sales were expected from those launches. So it's a very, very big number. And it's very
important for us to do it well. So clearly, that will bring our non-COVID business -- will be a
significant boost for our non-COVID business.
Now when we move to COVID, we expect '23 will be a transition year with likely in the U.S.
moving from government model into a commercial model for vaccines and therapeutics. The
timing is not certain. So we are ready to do either side, but will be phased over the years.
And it likely will not be the same for Paxlovid or Comirnaty. And clearly also, there will be some
stuff that will have to be depleted in '23. And clearly, there will be new price dynamics as we all
move into '23.So COVID will be in a little bit more of a transitional year in '23, until it will be established into
more like flu volumes type of market, but of course, with different price points and different
severity of the disease, that will bring both therapeutics and vaccines into a multibillion-dollar
franchise, but we are not going to predict now what will be the number for the years out, but we
will try to be as accurate as possible for our '23 numbers, when we will provide guidance.
Now under anything to add on the push and pulls, you are carrying a lot of the weight for the new
launches and also speak about one of them, which is going to be the RSV maternal and adult.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. Well, we're extremely excited about both the adult vaccine as well as the maternal vaccine,
first and foremost, because it is in the sweet spot of what Pfizer does, respiratory vaccines.
Right? We have a lot of experience of this, created through the legacy of our pneumococcal
franchise and the strengths we have there, but also recently from Comirnaty.
I'll also add that Pfizer is the only company that has both the adult vaccine as well as the maternal
vaccine. And it really does fit so extremely well into our existing commercial footprint.
These are large populations, both the adult as well as maternal. Let me just start with adult and
just sort of give you -- characterize that a bit. This 61 million, 65 year olds, all of whom are eligible
for this vaccination, it's actually a -- it's quite a devastating disease. The hospital costs from RSE
for adults is over $1.2 billion. It is also underreported and under-diagnosed, and so we have a
really great opportunity here to drive awareness of this disease, but also to use the commercial
footprint that we already have to create awareness, to create education and to bring this vaccine
to those who need it.
Equally, in the maternal space, a devastating disease. Most of the mortality and the morbidity is in
infants that are under six months old, and those that are preterm, and actually over a 102,000
deaths worldwide are resulting from infant infections of RSV.
So again, we see a tremendous opportunity to make a difference here. As you know through the
work that we've done on Prevnar, we have a tremendous legacy in pediatric vaccines. And so,
that coupled with our strength in women's health and the commercial footprint we have there as
well, is going to be perfectly suited for us to launch the maternal RSV vaccine.
And so, bringing all of this together, I think that we have the scientific knowledge, we have the
technology, we have the relationships with the vaccinators and the sites of vaccinations, we are
also very well versed in our work with the vaccine technical committees around the world in
bringing together a broad recommendation, which we believe is what's going to give us access
to many, many infants as well as adults to these two tremendous breakthroughs. So, I think we
have the best-in-class capabilities to do a great job with this respiratory portfolio.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Very well, Angela. And I agree with you. Operator, next caller please?
Operator
We have `Steve Scala, Cowen & Co. with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen & Co. `Thank you. I have three questions, but they're all short. First, what impact on RSV associated
infant hospitalizations did Pfizer see in the Phase 3 MATISSE trial? Second, can you tell us what
Nurtec sales were in Q3? I know you didn't own Biohaven in Q3, but you likely know the number.
And then lastly, all things considered, is it unrealistic to think that Comirnaty plus Paxlovid sales
could be as much as $15 billion in 2030? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you very much. Mikael, what about the RSV data?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you for the question. So as you have seen in our press release, we reported out very
impressive data and two separate primary endpoints that are independent. It is sufficient to hit
one for filing, and to our privilege and encouragement, we hit strongly on the most important.
And that was defined as severe, medically attended, lower-tract respiratory infections, where we
had close to 82% vaccine efficacy.
That is defined by clinical features such as the rate and distress of respiration, oxygenation levels,
et cetera, in the children, whether they are hospitalized or not. We will later release data on
secondary endpoints that include hospitalization.
When you look at this dramatic effect on the severe infections, it seems very reasonable to
project that we will have a dramatic impact in lowering hospitalizations and probably talking about
tens of thousands of hospitalizations in U.S. that may not happen if this vaccine is used to
vaccinate maternal, prior to delivering the children as appropriately studied in this vaccination. So,
we are very encouraged and optimistic about that type of value.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. Thank you, Mikael. Before I turn to Dave to answer the question about the sales of
Nurtec in the third quarter, let me make a comment on Comirnaty and Paxlovid and the franchise.
Clearly, we said that we will provide good picture of what we expect to be the sales for next year.
Now you are asking about year 2030, which is even more challenging.
And -- but also, the way you're asking the question, is it unthinkable, is it unreasonable to think
that we could have a $15 billion franchise? Well, taken that it is 55 right now, it's not unreasonable
to think that in year 2030 could be that. But it's not clear that it will be done. So that will depend
on the virus and how it behaves.
It will depend on if it will become a standard practice to vaccinate together with flu. If we will have
a combination product, clearly, that will enhance this direction. So I think it's a little bit too early,
but no, it's not unreasonable to think given where we are right now. Now, what about Nurtec
sales?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Steve, this is Dave. As you said, we didn't own the business last quarter, but maybe just a
little bit of color on how the product is performing. If you look at the volume, last year or last
quarter rather Q3, if you compare it to last year, it's about a 45% growth rate in year-over-year
script volume.
And then if you look at it sequentially which I think is really important, we saw about a 16% growth
rate sequentially, Q2 going into Q3. So, I think this shows the promise of this product number one.And number two, I think once we get it -- now that we have it in the hands of our field force, and
into our primary care field force, we can really maximize the value of this needed medicine into
the patient population here in the U.S. and abroad.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen & Co. `
Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Let's go, operator, to the next caller.
Operator
Next question will come from Robyn Karnauskas with Truist Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Robyn Kay Shelton Karnauskas, Truist Securities `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. On Paxlovid, I was just -- I'm sure you saw the recent
publication citing how many people have died from not even getting an antiviral. Can you talk a
little bit about the efforts you're making to educate physicians to give the drug? And do you think
we'll ever get to a point where people will be more comfortable, doctors will be more
comfortable taking it, given all the news around the Paxlovid rebound? And second question, can
you talk a little bit about the opportunity for vitiligo and alopecia in your pipeline and when should
we hear the next readout? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you very much. Both questions, I think can be answered very nicely by Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Well, thank you for the question. So, let me -- let's talk a little bit about Paxlovid and how that's
been going. I mean, first and foremost, we are under an EUA. So that means that we are working
hand-in-hand with the U.S. government to ensure that we are providing the education to the
public. The U.S. government and the state governments, I think, have created a tremendous
amount of education already using public service announcements and public campaigns.
And equally, we have provided education to all the potential prescribers of Paxlovid. So, if you
think about where we are today, over 500,000 physicians have written Paxlovid. And what you
have in addition to that is education that we've provided, not only to doctors but also to
pharmacists. We've trained over 80,000 pharmacists in terms of how to write Paxlovid.
And so, I think the education is really firing-off both at a prescriber level, but also at a consumer
level where we have worked again also closely with state governments and local governments to
ensure that we're providing the right amount of education.
I will say that the test-to-treat sites that the government has stood up federally, there's now
27,000 of (Technical Difficulty). So, I think that it's -- frankly, I think it's going well. I think that we're
continuing to do more in anticipation of the fall. But the fact that you've had 500,000 physicians
write this Paxlovid already is a great indicator of their confidence with this.
And the fact that probably the one most important area of education that we need to continue to
emphasize is just who are the eligible people for Paxlovid, and actually if you look at the definitionthose who are over 65 right age-related risks. But equally risks such as mental health illness, risks
such as an inactive lifestyle, risks that you may not be aware of. And so, I think that that's really
where we want to focus now through this fall.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
And what about the vitiligo?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
I think, we're really excited about these new indications for ritlecitinib. I think, probably the main
theme here is that there are not effective. There aren't any treatments for these highly, very
serious inflammatory conditions today. So, huge unmet need, huge -- it's just a place where there
is just no options today. So the fact that we are able to bring a treatment like this to market, I
think we'll have tremendous uptake by patients who up to now just are left with no options.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
And William, can you please address a little bit the issue about the rebounds that was also
mentioned?
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure, Albert. Well, Mikael already mentioned that we gave updated data from our EPIC-HR study
on patients with high risk for COVID-19. And we had additional end points there which we showed
100% decrease in ICU admissions, a 100% decrease in mechanical ventilation among hospitalized
patients, 100% who got Paxlovid were DC'ed to home versus 53% placebo.
We also had 82% reduction in oxygen support, 86% reduction in COVID-19 related hospitalization,
89% reduction in mean days hospitalized versus 100 patients, and also 73% reduction in any
COVID-19 related medical visit. Importantly, we also showed sustained time to symptom
alleviation and sustained time to symptom resolution of an impact of two to three days of
Paxlovid versus placebo.
But most importantly about rebound, there's been several studies recently that have shown
actually that rebound occurs with COVID in general. For example, those recent publication of 158
patients, with patients who got placebo with COVID, and actually, a third of those had recurrent
symptoms after resolution of their symptoms, suggesting that it's a phenomenon associated with
COVID and not with Paxlovid.
Importantly, we also haven't seen any evidence of resistance that is clinically meaningful.
Whereas, with antibodies, for example, we have seen that you could also can get symptom
rebound, but that is associated with resistance. So again, Paxlovid is not associated with
resistance, but the antibodies are. So, we feel very confident that Paxlovid has a significant impact
in the role against COVID.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, William. Operator, next call please.
Operator
We have `Andrew Baum, Citigroup Inc. with Citi. Your line is open.Q - `Andrew Baum, Citigroup Inc. `
Thank you. A couple of questions. Firstly, as it relates to the maternal RSV vaccine, could you talk
about reimbursement coverage in the U.S? I'm assuming you'll get an ACIP recommendation, and
therefore there will be zero out of pocket which may differentiate it versus the monoclonal. And
I'm sure on a cost basis that will be material.
And then secondly, could you talk to your efforts with your ER degrader with Arvinas in light of the
evolving data on SERDs, thinking about Astra's recent positive trial, and then SR-1 subgroup. Do
you believe that this is a (Technical Difficulty) disease rather than the potential risk to
development of the entire category? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Andrew, thank you. In the interest of time, let me give the first answer. Yes, you are right. As long
as the product is recommended by CDC, and we believe with this type of efficacy will be
recommended, there is zero co-pay. The relevance of the insurance, if it is commercial or if it is
public, their obligation is zero co-pay from the payers, and they have to cover it.
Mikael, what about the Arvinas molecule?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. Thank you for asking. Clearly, we think that the two factors that will separate out the good
drugs from the less good in this class of degraders, and we think the PROTAC, which is the
mechanistic name of the 471 is more effective in down-regulating the estrogen receptor and
selecting the right patients compared to standard of care, that includes selecting patients that
have estrogen receptor mutations and need more powerful drugs, and it's related to the
property of the drug itself.
We look forward to advance that drug with Arena's pivotal studies in the relatively near future,
and also to soon reveal to you a lot of progress we have in our breast cancer franchise, including
the CDK4 drug, and that may be part of what we consider to share in December at the investor
update on launches and next waves.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Mikael, another reason to attend this great event. Operator, can we go to the next
caller, please?
Operator
Next, we have `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking the question. Congrats on the progress. Two questions
from me. On BD, I want to be brief here, but can you talk about what other therapeutic areas you
might want to explore? I know your neurology with Biohaven, nonmalignant hematology with GBT,
and of course, inflammation, would you consider adding oncology?
And on the same lines, kind of Albert in some previous comments ahead of this call, you had
mentioned it going alone with some of your mRNA technologies. What applications of mRNA, doyou see outside of COVID? I mean, is personalized cancer vaccine is an area that you would
explore?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. Maybe I'll pass that to Aamir.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure Evan, thanks for the question. As far as our therapeutic areas of focus, as I mentioned
before in our priorities, our focus is on where we can make a difference and shape the science.
And the good news is we actually have distinctive capabilities across many different therapeutic
areas.
So you've seen us active in internal medicine, anti-infectives, INI, and certainly oncology, and our
focus is going to be on where we have breakthrough science and the potential to shape it. And
we feel very good about the breadth of our scientific capabilities to give us lots of flexibility to
work in different TAs [ph].
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Aamir. Operator, the next caller, please? (Multiple Speaker) No. No. No. Hold on. Yes.
(Multiple Speakers) We didn't answer the mRNA and how we think about it, Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. I am excited to share we're broadening that platform. You've heard about advance of the
mRNA flu vaccine successfully to the next stages. Albert mentioned plans that are ongoing to
combine it with COVID vaccine to build more broader respiratory vaccine with improved
convenience in single administration, single patient visits.
We are on our way to the Phase 1 study together with BioNTech's on our shingles vaccine that
really aim to deliver the power of the mRNA, but remove what is seen as a pretty significant issue
with reactogenicity of the current adjuvanted vaccine.
We're looking at several other mRNA vaccines that we will share in proper time, but also that
Aamir briefly alluded to, we have made progress in our alliance with Beam to really identify the
first type of candidates that will move forward to genetic medicine in some of the important rare
diseases. And we're looking at application, as certain areas of in vivo cancer medications, where
we think this technology can be more successful, compared to the past of cancer vaccines.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you very much, Mikael. Now operator, you can go to the next caller, please?
Operator
Our next is `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. I always wanted to ask about Mounjaro, but this is not the
call, sorry. Just kidding.On RSV vaccine side, I mean -- so congrats on the data in maternal vaccine. My question is Sanofi
has a -- an antibody which you can give to infants directly and it shows good results. So in your
opinion, I mean the strategy -- there could be one strategy -- moms, expecting moms versus
infants directly. How do you think about the end market shaking up -- shaping out eventually?
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yes. Angela, you want to say how we could compete potentially with an antibody in infants?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Yeah. I mean first of all, if you look at where most of the morbidity and mortality is happening, it's
really at the under six months, right, in that age group, and also with preterm babies.
And so you really need that protection from day one, and I think that that's where -- that's where
we believe our differentiation is from birth, literally from the moment of birth, you have protection
and you have duration of protection throughout the six months, which is what we've shown in our
clinical trials.
So, I think while there -- I mean, obviously it's great to have many different options, I think that the
option that we have with our vaccine is truly a unique one and one that plays well to the situation
with the infants.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you very much. And of course, Andrew made also the point about the vaccines, you do not
have co-pays, and antibodies are quite expensive, and you do have co-pays. So, let's move to
the next question please?
Operator
Next we have Tim Anderson with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - Analyst
Hi. This is Brian, on for Tim. Just two from us. What is Pfizer's current level of interest in
Alzheimer's disease, and do you think there are compelling business development opportunities
in the market or with the efforts likely be homegrown?
And then second on the Prevnar 20 and the competition, wondering if you can opine on Merck
strategy, which is that bifurcates, the market between teens and adults and have a product
tailored to each segment? They have strings in each and they will be going head-to-head against
Prevnar. They said a tailored approach is better than a one-size-fits-all approach, which is what
Prevnar is. Just wanted to get your thoughts on that?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you very much. Clearly, as you know, Pfizer had externalized their neuroscience portfolio,
and we have created a company that's working on that actually, and we have a very significant
equity over there.
We are monitoring how science is evolving. And apparently, there are few things that are
happening right now. I'm not referring only to the positive data for one study that we just saw, I'mmore referring to earlier science that is emerging, that seems to have a high promising for more
clinical results.
So, we are monitoring that. And if we think that there is a good opportunity, we may re-examine
entering. The reason why we exited when we exited, because we felt the science is not ready at
that time.
Now, I will move it to Angela to answer your second question.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
We're really proud of our pneumococcal vaccine franchise. And I want to begin with just talking
about the great successes that Prevnar 20 has had since its launch, even though it's competing
with other -- with an another pneumococcal -- or other pneumococcal vaccines, we have a 95%
market share.
We have 97% formulary access, and we just recently had an updated ACIP recommendation that
is going to enable Prevnar 20 to be used for catch-ups in this dose that are 65 plus as well as 65
under.
And so, I think that that is a great demonstration of the leadership and the legacy that Pfizer has
in pneumococcal vaccines or respiratory vaccines, and the tremendous relationships and
knowledge that we have in this space.
Equally, that plays out in the pediatric space. So even though we are -- and we're obviously
anticipating the launch of pediatric Prevnar 20, but in the meantime, Prevnar 13 is competing really
well with the PCV15. I think that, again the relationships that we have, the deep trust and
knowledge that physicians have of the -- of our pneumococcal vaccine is really standing -- is really
helping us competitively. And I think that there's great anticipation for the five additional
serotypes that you're going to be able to get with Prevnar 20 over 15 in the pediatric space.
So, I think, all in all, we're off to an extremely strong start, and we look forward to bringing our
next vaccine to the market.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Okay. Thank you very, very much, Angela. Next question please?
Operator
Next, we have `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan `
Great. Thanks so much. I just have a kind of a qualitative question on how to think about OpEx
dynamics going forward. It seems like we've seen some upward bias in spend at the company,
which has kind of coincided with the ramp in COVID sales. I guess for a position where that
COVID market resets as we transition past the pandemic, is there an opportunity or should we
think about a pullback in OpEx spend associated with that? Or should we think about these as
more normalized levels of spend given all these growth initiatives that you're highlighting and
investing behind at this point? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `Thank you, Chris. Nice question. And our new CFO, who clearly has views on this. So Dave, what
do you think?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Chris, good question. Listen, before getting into -- it's probably a little too early for guidance for
'23. But my expectation is that there would not be a pullback in expenses. I think if anything, what
we're fortunate to have is a very robust launch schedule over the next 18 months.
And we're really focused on investing to make sure that those launches are extremely successful
and these medicines get in the hands of patients pretty quickly. And so if anything, our focus is to
get behind these launches, make sure that we execute them flawlessly, and that we see the
ramp-up and drive our sales performance, particularly in the 2025 to 2030 timeframe.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you very much, Dave. Operator, the next call please? Next question, actually?
Operator
Next is `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey guys, good morning, and thanks for the question. Just had a few. The slide on long-term
growth is really helpful. On the $20 billion on slide 9, that you guys have highlighted, can you talk
to the long-term contribution that is not COVID. I know there's some -- there's a long-term piece
for COVID, but most investors are focused on kind of the non-COVID drivers.
And then on I&I, looking to next year when we'll have many biosimilars launching for Humira, how
much of market disruption do you think we'll see from higher biosimilars volumes and payer
preferences? I'm thinking about the effect on Cibinqo and then the Etrasimod launch specifically,
but also Xeljanz and Inflectra. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yes. I will ask Angela to answer the second question. On the first one, maybe I can give some
clarifications. So, on the $20 billion, so we have included revenues from new launches. This is our
estimations for 2030. New launches that are happening either started in '22, CIBINQO for
example is there, because it started. And then we are adding claims or are about to happen, and
we have the list in the appendix.
And in this list, excluding the BD, which we do not count over there, we count on the previous bar,
where we have the $25 billion of revenues are summing to $20 billion in our expectation. Just to
clarify, this does not include COVID. This is excluding COVID, excluding new things that may come
from COVID, excluding new things that may come in antivirals or new vaccines or combination
vaccines or any of them. These are not part of that.
Now in the other pipeline, which are things that are not in the near, near short term, and there are
things that will launch after the 18 months period all the way to '30, clearly, a lot of these things
maybe are not known to you yet. But among the things that they are known to you, and they
should be included over there, should be the GLP-1, should be any combinations between flu and
COVID or RSV, should be our interferon BIM.And the line vaccines, the Arenas, should be the gene therapies that could come. All of that
should count towards that bar that we haven't quantified yet publicly. Of course, we know what
we expect ourselves. Thank you very much. Now, Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
So the way to think about it is the biologics market and the oral market is the way we think about
it, is that it's different. And the way -- the reason I say that is because there is -- if you look at the
treatment algorithms, and how the biologics are used and how the orals are used, you take
Xeljanz as an example, right. Clearly there, the labels says that you have to have used its anti-T&F
before you move on to an oral -- an oral JAK.
And so, I don't think that the competition is across biologics. With orals, I think the competition is
literally with Humira and the biosimilars of Humira. And then the orals have their role.
So, I used Xeljanz as one example, I used Etrasimod as another example. There, the benefit of
this is that you have an oral therapy that actually can be used earlier line and actually pre-biologic.
So again there, you -- it's the different lines of treatment and the fact that I think there are distinct
places where you would use an oral and a distinct place where you would use a biologic. And I
don't think that's the crossover.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Angela. We're running a little bit late. We'll have three more questions, and we'll try to
make -- to answer them very quickly. Operator, next question?
Operator
Next is `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. I was just wondering, on Paxlovid, it looks like there's going to
be some doses remaining on the current U.S. contract as we head into 2023. So just maybe I
know you talked about how Comirnaty would work as we move to a commercial market. But
maybe just help us think about how that will work here in the U.S. as we transition out of the
pandemic here?
And the second question I had is just any more detail you can share on the Prevnar data in Peds
regarding the serotype coverage? I know that was a question that came out, post the Phase 3
data. Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yeah. Very quickly on the Paxlovid. It is not very different than what is happening with the vaccine.
There will be a transition period. We will have to announce the list price, then we'll have to work
with the U.S. government to transition, so that when they stopped distributing there, let's say,
goods that they have, we will, let's say, start and we have a seamless transition. So the market will
always become covered.
But, we will give more details, given these dynamics, what happens and when this happens. This
is a transition. And next, the guidance from next year. Mikael, anything you have to say on the
pediatrics?A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes, very brief, that we have had positive studies in U.S., three plus one schedule, European
Union, two plus one. After either four or three doses, which is the toddler complete schedule, we
covered 20 serotypes in U.S. and 19 in the EU. But the totality of data across all endpoint, we
believe clearly speaks to, that this is an important vaccine that adds coverage and it's likely going
to be the vaccine in the near-term and for quite many years, that have the broadest coverage.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. Operator, next question, please?
Operator
Next, we have `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. And in terms of RSV, if you could share some thoughts in terms of the velocity, the
uptake that you're expecting, is flu a good barometer and how quickly do you think, if that's the
case, that we could possibly reach through?
And then with Etrasimod, in the previous owners' hands, there were additional opportunities, I
believe, Crohn's disease data Phase 2, Atopic Dermatitis Phase 3 were originally in the timelines
for calendar 2022? Will we get some insights on those clinical programs? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yes. I will ask actually for the clinical programs, William, to speak a little bit about it.
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, sure. For Etrasimod, we have nothing new to update at this time, Chris.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Alright. And then for RSV, I would say, clearly, we think that it could become like flu-like. I think all
respiratory disease eventually will have coverage like we have right now in flu. The question is
how often that will happen?
And that will depend on several factors. Education ,of course, of the people and their physicians,
but also the availability of combination programs and products that could significantly bring all
three of them together, RSV, COVID and flu. Operator, next question please?
Operator
Next, we have `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI `
Hi guys, thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask two questions on pricing today, if I may.
Perhaps first one, Albert, I know the COVID vaccine repricing was a very bold decision, and I
understand the dynamics around the value proposition, the pandemic versus endemic era pricing,
et cetera. But I think the sheer magnitude of the increase is making a lot of investors ask
questions around ESG implications, any political blowback, et cetera.I'm just curious how you guys thought about this very important decision, and how you're thinking
about the expectation on net pricing? And then separately, on Paxlovid, I know you're running a
10-day trial versus the five day course that's currently approved, does that mean Paxlovid will
effectively become 2x the price once a 10-day course is approved? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yes. I can answer both of them. Look, I think what was very bold and the right absolute decision
was to price the Paxlovid during the pandemic at a very, very, very low price. Clearly, the price --
excuse me, the vaccine at a very, very low price. That was the right thing to do, and we did it and
we maintained that for the years to come.
Now that we are coming to the end of this period, and as we are moving to very different
products, which is very different presentations, which are now we are moving to single instead of
mass vial -- multi-dose vial, we are pricing the vaccine according to the cost effectiveness. And
the cost effectiveness of the current vaccine in a way that the CDC is pricing, it is way, way, way
below than what the price that we have set at $110 and $130.
Also keep in mind that people will not see any difference and the system would get the benefit
of a cost-effective product, and the people will not see any difference, because there's no co-
pay.
Now, on the Paxlovid, I think it's too early to speak. We haven't announced any price, and we do
not know what will be the outcome of the studies or the outcome of a new class that is coming
following Paxlovid. So now, let's thank you very much, Umer. So maybe, we move to the last
question.
Operator
Our last question will come from `David Risinger, SVB Securities with SVB Securities.
Q - `David Risinger, SVB Securities `
Yes. Thanks very much. So my two questions are regarding the core growth, which was 2%
operationally in the third quarter. Could you talk about what you're assuming and how we should
think about growth prospects in the future, specifically in the fourth quarter, since you've guided
to that in your updated guidance?
And then second, could you provide an update -- and I might have missed this, if I did, I
apologize, but could you provide an update on your next-gen oral antiviral for COVID? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. One, on the 2% operational, excluding COVID, just to make a clarification, if you
exclude also the contract manufacturing business that we have, that was really COVID-related, it
has very -- increased revenues last year, because we were contract manufacturing for BioNTech
territories, that we don't have to do now, because BioNTech took over for their territories, their
own manufacturing.
In fact, the growth was 4% of our pharmaceutical business, excluding COVID and excluding this
piece of contract manufacturing.
Now, Angela based on that, what will you expect to be the growth trajectory?A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Well, you know, we've talked about our five-year CAGR, right, to be 6%. And just I want to
reiterate that that is exactly the track that we are on. Every year does not necessarily have to look
identical, but over the five-year period, we're absolutely confident that we're going to develop --
we're going to deliver the 6% CAGR.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Alright. So, thank you very much. So with that, I think we are close to bring our call to a close.
Please don't forget to attend our event on December 12, where we'll provide details about our
very important new product launches in the next 18 months, and some of our most important
pipeline, potential new medicines and vaccines.
Thank you for joining us today. Have a great rest of your day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's earnings call, and we appreciate your
participation. You may now disconnect.