Q1 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Unidentified Speaker
Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon from Munich. I would like to welcome you all to our
telephone conference for the First Quarter with us. With us today are `Oliver Zipse, Chairman, Chairman of
the Board of Management of BMW AG and Dr `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO. We will start with Nicolas
Peter, who will take you through our financial results, followed by `Oliver Zipse, Chairman, who will give you a
general business update for the BMW Group. And as usual, we'll have afterwards time for Q and
A session. Nicolas, please go ahead.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks a lot. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group has made a strong start to
2022 in an increasingly volatile geopolitical and global economic environment. Our business is
performing in line with our expectations. The ongoing war in Ukraine is affecting the availability of
vehicle components, which led to production disruptions at several European plants during the
first quarter. Semiconductors also remain in short supply, and we expect the situation to ease at
the earliest in the second half of 2022. In China restrictions to combat the Corona pandemic are
affecting our local sales production and logistics.
Our associates are working hard to manage our supply chains with the greatest possible
flexibility, so we can minimize the impact on the BMW. As expected, compared to the strong first
quarter of 2021, vehicle sales decreased by 7.8% in Europe and 9.2% in China in the first three
months of this year. However, our US sales still grew by 3.7%. This shows that the BMW Group has
an excellent competitive position and is highly diversified. In the current volatile environment, we
are benefiting once again from our balanced footprint across all sales regions. Our consistent
focus on emission free mobility is also gaining further momentum. With the market launch of the
BMW iX and the BMW i4 last year, we released two all-electric models onto the roads that are in
very high demand.In the first quarter, the BMW Group sold a total of 35,289 all-electric vehicles, an increase of
nearly 150% over the previous year. Two weeks ago we unveiled the BMW i7, an all-electric luxury
sedan that underlines our innovation leadership in electrification, digitalization and autonomous
driving. The BMW iX1 will also expand our BEV product range over the course of the year. In the
second quarter, we will launch the BMWi3, the first all-electric 3 Series tailor-made for the
Chinese market.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we extended our contract with our Chinese joint venture
BBA until 2040 and increased our stake in BBA from 50% to 75%.
With the conclusion of this transaction, BBA has now been fully consolidated in the BMW Group's
financial statement since 11th February 2022 and therefore, fully considered in all items pertaining
to the income statement, the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.
The development is reflected in higher revenues and operating results in the Automotive
segment. The increase in the cost of sales also includes depreciation from the purchase price
allocation as well as consolidation effect related to intra-group deliveries. The previously-held
equity interest of 50% in BBA was revalued to its current fair market value. This resulted in a
positive one-time effect of EUR7.66 billion in the Automotive segment first quarter financial
results.
The net amount from consolidation of BBA's liquid funds less the purchase price amounted to
EUR5 billion and increased free cash flow in the Automotive segment in the first quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group's financial figures for the quarter and therefore greatly
impacted by the increased stake in BBA and full consideration of the joint venture in the Group
financial statements. Group revenues for the first three months of the year climbed 16.3% to
EUR31.14 billion. The financial result includes the one-time effect of EUR7.66 million from the fair
market valuation of the existing 50% stake held in BBA. This boosted group earnings before tax,
which totals EUR12.23 billion at the end of March, which resulted in an EBIT margin of 39.2%.
Without the revaluation of the existing stake and consolidation effects arising from BBA's full
consolidation, the group EBIT margin reached 18.4%. Bolstered by a good performance, we
continue to invest systematically and from a position of strength in the future competitiveness of
our company. As previously announced, we are focusing on the electrification of our model lineup
and on digitalization both of our vehicles and our business processes. Our research and
development expenses according to IFRS is therefore mainly in connection with new model's
electrification and digitalization of the vehicle fleet as well as automated driving.
R&D spending for the first quarter stood at EUR1.57 billion and was therefore 9.4% higher year-
on-year. The R&D ratio, according to the German Commercial Code for the quarter fell slightly
4.5% owing to the strong increase in revenues. We expect the figure for the full year to be within
our target range of 5% to 5.5%. Our capital expenditure is focused on future mobility and was
significantly higher year-on-year at EUR1.1 billion. This represents a CapEx ratio of 3.5%.
We expect the ratio for the full year to be close to our target figure of 5%. Ladies and gentlemen,
let's move on to the individual segments. In the Automotive segment, the volume related
decrease in revenues was offset by a strong operating performance. Segment revenues rose by
17.4% to over EUR26.73 billion. A share this increase is also due to the first time inclusion of BBA
revenues as well as currency tailwinds.
In addition, a favorable model mix and sustained good price realization, due to our premium
positioning are reflected in the revenue growth. Price increases in the markets help partially tovehicles in the pre-owned car market also continued to develop positively. The cost of sales in
the Automotive segment increased by 20.9% to EUR22.63 billion. This reflects cost for energy
and raw materials, increased research and development spending and the higher percentage of
electrified vehicles. Effects from the initial consolidation of BBA amounting to around EUR1.2 billion
also contributed to the increase in the cost of sales. In addition to consolidation effects of
approximately EUR500 million in depreciation of the purchase price allocation, elimination of
intercompany profit amounting to approximately EUR700 million were recorded. The segment
achieved an EBIT of EUR2.37 billion for the first quarter, an increase of 5.9% over the same period
of last year. The EBIT margin came in at 8.9%. Excluding the consolidation effects mentioned
above, the operating segment result would be around EUR3.5 billion and the EBIT margin would
be 13.2%. This reflects the strength of our core segment in the first quarter, particularly given the
difficult business conditions. The financial result for the segment climbed to around EUR8 billion in
the first quarter of 2022 compared to just over EUR500 million for the prior year quarter.
This includes the one-time effect of EUR7.66 billion from the revaluation of the existing 50% stake
held in BBA, I referred to before. At the same time, due to the full consolidation, the equity result
decreased by EUR170 million in the first quarter. The segment's free cash flow also reflects the
full consolidation of BBA. As expected the acquisition of BBA's liquid funds less the purchase
price resulted in a net inflow of EUR5 billion. This was partially offset by changes in working capital
since temporary suspensions of production resulted in a decrease in trade payables. The closure
of dealerships in China due to lockdowns also led to a decrease in advance payments received
from the dealer network.
Free cash flow for the segment totaled EUR4.82 billion, on this basis, we confirm our target for
the year of at least EUR12 billion [ph]. In the Financial Services segment, a total of 433,000
financing and leasing contracts were concluded with retail customers in the first three months of
the year. The number of new contracts was down 11.4% compared to the very strong prior-year
quarter. In addition to the limited availability of new vehicle due to supply issues, this also reflects
more intense competition in the financial services sector, particularly in China and in the US. The
strong product mix and pricing led to a higher average financing volume compared to the
previous year. As a result, new business volume decreased only 3.1%. Segment earnings before
tax reached just over EUR1 billion, a new all-time high in the first quarter. The situation in pre-
owned car market around the world remains exceptionally positive and continues to contribute to
high income from the release of end of use vehicles. Thanks to an attractive model lineup, the
Motorcycle segment was able to maintain sales growth. With more than 47,000 units sold, we
once again reported double-digit growth and posted our best ever first quarter sales. The
segment's operating earnings for the quarter totaled EUR108 million with an EBIT margin of
13.5%.
Ladies and gentlemen, with lower economic expectations, rising inflation and high energy and
raw material prices, we face growing uncertainties in our business environment. Despite these
challenging conditions, the BMW Group made a strong start to 2022. Based on current
information we are able to confirm our guidance for the full year. Driven by the full consolidation
of BBA, we expect to see a significant year-on-year increase in both group pretax earnings and
employee numbers. In the Automotive segment despite supply bottlenecks and production
downtimes in the first quarter, we forecast that vehicle sales for the full year will be on par with
last year.
The percentage of electrified vehicles should also increase significantly, and the number of fully
electric vehicles should more than double. We expect that the best share will be at least 10% of
total sales volume. We are targeting a slight reduction in CO2 emissions in the new vehicle fleetsegment to be within the range of 7% to 9%. In the Financial Services segment, we can confirm
our target range of 14% to 17% before for return equity. In the Motorcycle segment, we anticipate
a slight increase in deliveries with an EBIT margin within our target range of 8% to 10%. Our
guidance assumes that the semiconductor supply situation will ease at the earliest in the second
half of 2022. It is impossible to foresee how the geopolitical situation will evolve. That is why the
possibility of the conflict expanding beyond Ukraine or stricter sanctions or countermeasures
from Russia and not factored into our guidance. Further restrictions related to the Corona
pandemic in China are also not included.
Ladies and gentlemen, despite geopolitical and global economic uncertainties, the BMW remains
on track to meet its goal for the full year. We are managing our supply chains proactively and are
able to respond flexibly to changing circumstances.
Demand for our products remains strong with especially high new orders for our all-electric
vehicles. We are investing in e-mobility and digitalization to secure the future sustainability of our
company, while maintaining our strong operating performance. That is how we are continuing to
navigate the company carefully through turbulent waters and are in an excellent position for 2022.
Thank you.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Nicolas, and now over to you, Oliver.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Thank you, Nicolas. Ladies and gentlemen, a strong product and desirable brand are the
foundation of the BMW Group success as a company. With our customer-centric portfolio, we
have experienced very robust demand in recent years. Despite this difficult circumstances, we are
seeing this trend grow even more this year. Never before in the history of our company that our
pre-order has been higher than they are today.
The markets signal that this high demand will continue. Our order books are full several months
out, especially for our fully electric vehicles and in particular, our innovation drivers, the BMW i4
and the BMW iX. A few weeks ago, we unveiled another milestone in the expansion of our fully
electric line up the BMW i7.
I presented it in person to our retailers in the Americas and journalists in the United States. The
response from around the world has been tremendous.
The new 7 is tech magic at its best. It is the only luxury sedan to offer with a full range of drive
technologies as a full electric BEV plug-in hybrid or with modern combustion engines. Our
customers choose whatever suits that needs best without having to compromise. Over the
coming years and months, this rapid pace will continue. The iX1 will be released late this year.
This means one of our highest volume models in the premium compact class will also be
available as a pure electric vehicle. And next year, we will be electrifying another core BMW brand
product, BMW 5 Series. This year, we will already have eight fully electric models on the road with
plenty more ready to go.
Including pre-production vehicles, we will be building 15 fully electric models already this year. This
will give us a pure electric option in about 90% of our market segments. The large number of
new launches and strong demand for our product shows that we inspire people develop
innovations that are successful in the marketplace and create desirability. This is the basis for theacross our entire portfolio. We will continue to rely on our open technology approach in the
future. It is the right concept for our customers worldwide right now and accounts different
developments in different regions of the world. This enables us to over the latest most climate
friendly drive technologies for various needs and thus further increasing our contribution to a
positive climate impact.
This breadth of technology enables us to meet both demands of our customers and the
expectations of our stakeholders during the current phase of the transformation. In this way, we
are further optimizing all technologies. We are transforming the BMW Group effectively and
swiftly. Our focus is on e-mobility, digitalization, and a holistic approach to sustainability. And what
sets us apart, we are performing while transforming. This is also shown by our strong first quarter.
The figures for the first three months benefited from the full consolidation of our Chinese joint
venture BMW Brilliance Automotive. This was an important strategic move for us, it will strengthen
our long-term cooperation with our partners in China. We are expanding production capacity at
our existing locations in Shenyang and this is how we continue to increase our local for local share
and thereby becoming more resilient. And we are systematically increasing localization of other
models, including so called next [ph] new energy vehicles.
The fully electric BMW 3 Series long version developed exclusively for the Chinese market is a
good example of this. We also have a long wheel base version of the X5 that has been tailored
to the unique needs of Chinese customers. Both the electric 3 Series and the X5 long-wheel
based version are produced locally in China for the Chinese market. This puts us in an even
better position to meet strong demand for these two models. As a global company, the BMW
Group operates at the intersection between different conditions in major regions of the world.
The current picture could hardly be any more varied. A few weeks ago, I visited the United States
of America. We presented our products for the next two years to over a 1,000 retailers from
across the Americas. Last year, our fastest growing region. They were very impressed and are
committed to investing billions in the future with us. The mood was positive and full of optimism.
This is also reflected in the sales figures for the first 3 months of the year. We continue to grow
on the American continent compared to the prior year quarter. This applies to the United States
in particular, which posted growth of 3.7%, once again earning the BMW Group a leading position
in this key market.
We are able to respond flexibly to growing demand across the region for our -- from our plant in
Spartanburg, our biggest in our global production network. As well as our other plants in San Luis
Potosi in Mexico and Manaus and Araquari in Brazil. Europe is overshadowed by the impact of the
Ukraine crisis. Energy supplies across the continent have been jeopardized by the war and the
resulting tensions with Russia.
Inflation remains high and the cost of food, energy and fuel are rising. And as a result, economic
forecasts are constantly being revised downwards. The war in Ukraine is also significantly
impacting the local automotive supplier industry and leading to production downtimes at our
European plants. We have been working with our partners and leveraging our ability to respond
quickly, our high level of flexibility and agile methods to make up component shortages as a
result of the war as quickly as possible. And we are still today relying on supplies from Ukraine.
This continues to give those employed by our local partners a perspective for the future.
Meanwhile, the supply situation has eased and we expect that we would be able to keep the
situation stable.
And that brings me to our third main market, China. The Coronavirus pandemic is flaring up again.
As a result the Metropolis of Shanghai is back in lockdown. Production facilities and ports havebeen closed to contain infections. Our plants in Dadong and Tiexi were also affected by
temporary closures but production there has resumed in the meantime.
One issue the industry has been dealing with worldwide for the past year is the shortage of
semiconductors. And we don't expect to see an improvement until at least the second half of this
year and we will still be dealing with an underlying shortage throughout 2023.
To limit the effects of the shortage we are exploiting the flexibility of our production network to
the full as we have done in the past. This enables us to relocate production volume at short
notice. We are responding to the supply situation with maximum efficiency. This is a strength of
the BMW Group that has set us apart in a positive way in the past. We also created flexibility in
our main sales markets. Our three market regions are increasingly independent when it comes to
sales, production and supplier networks.
The current differences in their situation show how important this approach is it creates resilience
because when the market situation is difficult in one region of the world, the other markets carry
us through. This means that despite the different challenges of our times, we are always able to
work towards the success of the company as a whole. The results of the first quarter of 2022 are
proof of this. Strong demand for our products enabled us to strengthen our competitive position
in the fourth quarter of 2022 and grow our global market share year-on-year despite the difficult
circumstances.
Bottlenecks in the supply of components and measures to stop the spread of the Coronavirus in
China is the reason why we were not fully able to meet the high demand for BMW, MINI and Rolls-
Royce vehicles. While sales through February were slightly higher than in the same period of the
previous year, the development in March was mainly characterized by supply bottlenecks of wire
harnesses from Ukraine.
As a result of this, we saw a moderate decrease in deliveries between January and March 2022
compared to the all-time high of the previous year. Our sales of electrified vehicles increased
significantly, climbing 28% to more than 89,000 units. During the same period, sales of fully
electric vehicles more than doubled to over 35,000 units.
The iX3 and MINI SE were the most in demand fully electric models. Sales were significantly
higher than in the prior year quarter. Now the BMW iX and the BMW i4 which we presented last
year will be introduced in many more markets worldwide over the coming months and the new i7
will also be in the showrooms from November onwards. All of this will accelerate sales growth
even further. This puts us on track to more than double our sales of fully electric vehicles
compared to last year.
We aim to breakthrough the sound barrier of a total of 2 million all-electric vehicles sold overall by
2025. And by 2030 at least half of our global deliveries should come from BEVs and we are not --
and we are doing everything we can to meet this goal even earlier. 2025 will play a crucial part in
this, because that is when we will be launching our NEUE KLASSE. With its focus on electric, digital
and circular, it represents a quantum leap in technology. The NEUE KLASSE will also come with our
new generation six drivetrain generation for the first time with more output, new cell chemistry
and new cell formats. The NEUE KLASSE will give sales of fully electric vehicles another major
boost. We're consistently pushing forward the expansion of e-mobility in line with growing
demand. That is how we are responding to our customers' desire for more emission free
mobility. At the same time, we are making sure we can achieve the strategic climate protection
goals we have committed to, because it is especially important in challenging times not to losesight of our long-term objectives. Our road to climate neutrality by 2050 follows a scientifically
validated and transparent path through the entire value chain.
In this way, we will be able to reduce our product's total carbon footprint throughout the lifecycle
by 40% by 2030. Hence what is specifically important to me. We deliver on our promises. For
example, in 2021, we once again overfulfilled our CO2 emission targets for the European Union
and all drive technologies contributed to this. In addition to reducing CO2, the topics of raw
material efficiency and circularity will play an increasingly important role. We showed with the BMW
iVision circular last year what luxurious yet sustainable mobility in the urban environment might
look like. The use of secondary materials will be a basic requirement on the road to create closed
material loops. That is why the BMW Group's approach is called secondary first. We are
consistently following this path. And our goal is to create the most sustainable supply chain in the
entire automotive industry. The light alloy cast wheels for the new MINI countryman are a very
concrete result of this thinking. They are made of 70% secondary materials. This enables us to
avoid up to 80% of the CO2 emissions from reduction in this way.
In addition to relying on secondary materials, we are also concentrating on utilizing raw materials
in such a way that they can be fed back into the material loop after being used. The NEUE KLASSE
will set new benchmarks for this 50% of the raw materials used to build it will be recyclable. But
circularity does not just represent the future from an environmental perspective. We are currently
seeing quite clearly how this approach also plays an increasingly important role from an economic
and geopolitical standpoint. Due to current events and the possibility of supply bottlenecks as a
result, prices in the commodity markets are skyrocketing right now. Purchase prices for many
industrial and precious metals have reached all-time highs. Some of these are essential to
technological change in the automotive industry and especially, the transition to e-mobility.
We are currently discussing quite rightly how to reduce our dependence on fossil energy, but at
the same time, we have to be careful not to create a new dependencies in other areas. For
example, a battery alone contains several hundred kilos of raw materials, most of which did not
come from Europe. Circularity is an approach that will greatly reduce dependence on primary raw
materials in the long term.
Until then, only technological diversification and the availability of alternatives will create resilience.
That is why we are also advocating in this context for an open technology approach with
sustainable further development of all drive technologies, including support for hydrogen
technology.
Ladies and gentlemen, having to deal with the combined burden of major overlapping challenges
that is the new normal.
The BMW Group has always responded to challenges with an effective operating performance by
the entire company at a high level of flexibility. In this way, we've always guaranteed commercial
success of the company even in challenging situations. In fact we have emerged stronger than
ever from many of these challenging times. You can rest assured that we will continue to manage
the BMW Group in this spirit in the future. Thank you very much.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, the line will shortly be open for your questions. Please
wait for some technical instructions.
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Operator Instructions) And the first question is from `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane, Exane. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane `
Yes, hi, there, it's Dorothee from Exane. Thank you for taking my question.
I wondered if you could talk a little bit more about how you expect your model mix to evolve
going forward, because obviously on the one hand, we have supply shortages easing albeit quite
gradually and on the other you have this additional X5 capacity coming online in China. You are
renewing the 7 Series and you are adding the XM at the top of the range.
So which of those two will be the dominant force if we think about the likely mix and ASP
evolution in 2022 and also to 2023.
And then my second quick question is, it seems likely that Germany will phase out PATV [ph]
support relatively quickly, if you needed to pivot more rapidly then currently plan towards BBVs
and you were to -- want to get to the cumulative two million BBV unit sooner in 2025.
Would that actually be possible as regards your supply chain and also your production capacity or
what is the limitations, we should be aware of that. Thank you.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Good afternoon, Dorothee and thank you for your questions. So we will start with the first
question and `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer. Please. Nicolas
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Dorothee, hi. Maybe first of all to answer the question shorter reflection on Q1, Q1 '22 while I've
explained and you've seen it in the numbers, the overall the global sales dropped due to supply
situation by around 6% from a global perspective, if we look at our top end vehicles and i include
in the top end vehicles 7, 8 and X7 I include of course the M-brand and I include Rolls Royce. They
are plus-minus flat, which is a good indicator and explaining also the positive development of our
margin and taking this into account it is starting point. We are confident that with the new 7 Series,
with that you probably have seen images of the lifecycle impulse of the X7 which will of course
support the sales development in all major regions that we will be able to further growth this in
the next couple of quarters. So we are confident that we continue to improve the mix from this
perspective. On the other hand side, I have to say, we are very pleased also with the
development in terms of contribution of all of the total portfolio and the whole range. We have
seen a very strong price development -- pricing development in particular in the US and China
already starting last year and we have been pleased to see that in the major European markets,
there's a positive trend, which started, maybe a little bit later than in the two other regions in the
second half of '21 is continuing to develop in a positive way.
So it's not an question of dominance. We are very confident to grow in a profitable way in all
segments, we are in.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. And the second question for you, Oliver.A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Hi Dorothee. I think in this time of the industry, flexibility is king. And flexibility has three
components. The first is product strategy. As you know, we are pursuing an architecture which is
highly flexible like the new 7 Series, which comes as an i7 but also with plug-in hybrid elements or
even fully combustion engine, that is the element, so that we have -- this actually gives us
flexibility to respond depending on real market segment even if what you are focusing at if the --
the demand for the i7 will be high.
The second component is production and supply chain flexibility. All our plants have been rebuilt
to be flexible in terms of what they produce, whether they produce fully electric or hybrid or
other vehicles. That is already behind us. Look at our plant in Dingolfing which produces the iX,
the i7 but at the same time also specific derivative of i Series [ph] or 4 series. And the third part is
which market segments do you cover? And as I said, before, we can cover now with the current
approach of 2022, 90% of our market segments with fully electric, which means if there is a
market in the world, which kind of pushes forward to all electric we are already prepared. We can
cover more than 90% of these markets already today, so we are not afraid that single markets
will push further towards emission free mobility and only allow electric vehicles. We will be
prepared to go beyond and if 2 million units, I think if that's markets require then we will be
prepared.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Oliver. So let's move on to the next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah, good afternoon and thank you for taking my questions. The first question I had was just on
share buybacks, subject to the approval at the AGM. We just saw trading on less than 5 times
earning a mid teen free cash flow yield and a high-single digit dividend yield and given the
strength of your balance sheet, unless you see further downside to your share price from here,
conceptually, would it make the most economic sense to carry out the full 10% on an accelerated
basis in coming months or is that too simpler view.
Am I missing other important considerations?. The second question I had was just on the i7. And
the new theater screen which looks an extremely attractive product. If I sign up to Amazon Prime
or buy an app or a movie through BMW while sitting in the i7, does any of that revenue accrue to
you?. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, George for those two questions. So we will start with Nicolas and the questions about
share buyback.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
George, good to hear you. While you're probably anticipate what I'm going to answer. At first of
course the AGM has to approve our proposal which is planned to happen next week. And as you
can imagine, we would not ask for approval if we would not have something in in mind. On thewhat we would do. So let's -- we discuss this when the time has come to take a final decision
what we are exactly doing.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Yeah. And George, I would like to answer your second question. Yes, we agree with you, the
theater screen is a phenomenal experience and we hope to introduce it to you personally as
soon we have the opportunity to do so. The theater screen is based on Amazon Fire TV and you
need to use your own Amazon account, Amazon Prime account to do that. So it will be the same
revenue methodology. You will have on the iPhone.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. So, next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS UBS, your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yes, thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to focus on the point, Oliver, you made about
flexibility. Why is it actually that the order bank for EVs for BEVs is much longer than for ICE cars
given the flexibility and specifically, it seems the iX sold out already for the year. Is there anything
that your flexibility approach can contributes to balancing the order bank, so that there is not such
a big overhang on the EV side.
My second question relates, if I can on the product side to the i3 in China. If I look at the KPIs of
this product. It looks actually quite weak relative to competitors range of only four hundred
kilometers roughly WLTP and the price hike is much higher than local competition also Tesla
Model 3, so I am just curious what your defense pitch or pushback would be to that assessment.
And then thirdly, that one goes to Nicola regarding the guidance, you reiterate the 79% margin
target which looks reasonably conservative after Q1, so I'm just wondering, if we look specifically
at the two items of price mix on the one hand and raw materials on the other hand.
In Q1 you obviously had a better or bigger positive price contribution then you had a headwind
from the raw mat side. I'm wondering, how those two items will evolve in the coming quarters.
Will that remain a net positive or will it turn into a net negative based on what you can see. Thank
you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Patrick. So the first two questions, we'll go to Oliver. And the third one to Nicola.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Well Patrick hello from Munich. Just to correct that the order bank is high on all derivatives of
BMW. That is not exclusive for BEV only vehicles.. So we see on a wide range of vehicles, high
order banks and we try to, to fulfill customer needs in all markets and for all derivatives and the iX
and the i4 they are still in the ramp up phase. It has been communicated last year they are now
introduced in more and more markets. They are still in the ramp-up phase and we are confident
that once the ramp up phase is finalized, we will be able to fulfill all demands. And your question
to i3, which is the long version of the 3 Series fully electric in China. This is a product which
perfectly fits in the -- to the requirements of the Chinese market and when talking about theproduct, the range of the car is comparatively high and we don't see any problem with that
product in the Chinese market, it's on the contrary, we consider it will be a big success in the
Chinese marketplace.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Patrick, well I'm confident that we are able to reach our 7% to 9% based on what we've achieved
in the very strong first quarter. On the other hand side there is -- as we all know, there's a lot of
volatility in the market. So, question is is this the right point in time to review something in
particular, if we look at the full year, we continue to (technical difficulty) if we look at currency and
raw material prices and negative impact of in the mid 3 digit million area pricing was again very
strong in the first quarter.
So I'm definitely not pessimistic. But volatility is due to a geo political topics, extremely high. So
and this could of course impact production in Q2, we anticipate that semiconductor situation will
improve in the second half of the year. So we still have some issues, we have a clear plan, but as I
said, there is volatility and based on this, we believe that if you have to integrate as well the
development of COVID in China and based on this rebalancing pluses and minuses, we believe
that at this point in time, it's a right way to move forward with a 7% to 9% guidance of course, we
are pleased that we are in the upper part of this corridor [ph]
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Can I just ask, Nicola on the raw mats making in the latest developments. What would
be the guidance you would give for the full year?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes for the full year, we have a good coverage in place. If you look at raw material, standalone it's
would be above 500 million and positive impacts from FX in the low to mid 3-digit million area
coming from FX. So that's -- this is the equation between FX and raw material.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you, very much.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. So, next question please.
Operator
The next question is from Daniel Schwartz [ph], your line is now open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, thank you for taking my question. First one is one financial services, Dr Peter, you mentioned
that competitive pressure is up in China and in the US and I think you have not mentioned that
before, is that a concern and where does it show, is it cheaper leasing rates or offers to
consumers with lower credit quality and is this pressure rather coming from automotivecompensation, the bonus includes an earnings component. I just wanted to know where this be
adjusted following the consolidation of the JVs, for example for PPA or will the net income target
thresholds been -- be increased following the consolidation.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Thank you, Daniel. So maybe I'll start with the second question. That is obviously a question to
decided by the Supervisory Board and not by the Board of Management, so please we can't give
that answer now. And the first one is for Nicolas please. Go ahead.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Daniel, very, very important topic thinking about our core business. Well, the pressure is reflected
on one hand side is third party business which is gaining share and you see it in slightly slightly
lower penetration rates, so you don't see it, and that's our intention. We buy a strong business,
we have not changed our high quality credit assessments and if we look at the bridge between
Q1 '21 and the Q1 '22, we see a positive development of course on residual values and on the
credit side, but also from an operational perspective, there is a positive momentum. Credit risks,
continues to be extremely hit on in historical very low level, I think in the area of 0.01 [ph] or 9%.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. So, next question please.
Operator
The next question on line is `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thank you, couple of questions please, Oliver, one of your key German competitors define
software as a mission critical and we started to see some substantial investments being done.
Can you comment please your vision within BMW and also the investment you're planning on
software in the next two years and also second question on battery, we are aware of the
excellent work you are doing there on battery, when can we hear more around the work you're
doing and whether you could also take some decisions regarding make or buy for your own
production. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Jose. Before we start with the answer for you, Nicola wanted to add something.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Daniel. Just a short comment regarding lease rates, of course, lease rates are not going down,
lease rates are going up. So it's not reflected in lease rates.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, thank you for that addition. So Jose coming back to your questions. So we start with
software that's for Oliver. And on the second one, battery technology is for Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `Jose, of course, is the digitalization mission critical and has always been, I think that is not a new
phenomenon. Look at the i7 which just hit the market now. It has the new Operating System 8 in
it, which is the technology masterpiece, I think in terms of connectivity, in terms of automated
driving and so forth. I think we are right at the forefront here and looking to the future now, we
just signed a very big cooperation with Qualcomm and Arriver as we've communicated to drive
that development even further to the next possible level culminating than in our new architecture
NEUE KLASSE, I mentioned in 2025.
So it's in the forefront of what we do here. BMW is a fully digitalized company already and price
and not only price and I think, we will have a most convincing product offering, which is fully
digitalized and we're driving the next step here now.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Second one about battery.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Okay. Second question, battery technology, you have to look very closely what I'll be talking about
here. On the upper most level you have the energy module, the -- where the different battery
cells come together and then go into the car, that's fully in-house at Dingolfing BMW, whether
that is in Europe or the United States or in China, the battery cell itself we do everything in-house
R&D, lot of [ph] transfer, production planning besides the extra manufacturing.
So this is the -- actually the only thing we don't do and then you go one step further to the raw
materials for the most critical raw materials, we facility direct contracts with the producers of that
raw material to safeguard access to this raw materials. So when we talk about make or buy, it is
much, much more than the battery cell and the battery cell itself, there is ample competition.
There are many, many suppliers already in existence or beginning to come up and I think most
importantly is that you have a production which is local for local, so for European plants, it should
be in Europe independent of ownership structure. And in China should be for China. So I think it's
much more important to look at these factors than to say, who actually owns the battery cell
production, it's much more, much more complex I think. And for us, I think we have exactly the
right approach and which will lead us in the future.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. So let's move on to the next question please. Hello next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies, Jefferies, your line is now open.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yes, good afternoon and thank you for taking the questions.
I've got two please one maybe a bigger picture question for Oliver and then more technical one
for Nicola. It was interesting earlier in your prepared comments you talked about the three
regions in which you operate is becoming increasingly independent and therefore more resilient
fully understand that. Now in the past, the driving force of BMWs globalization was in response to
the relatively small size that you were planning to optimize and compensate for small size by
having a more global footprint and increase scale as a result, I'm just wondering, what haschanged there? Is the change of AGs because you basically reached a size where you feel that is
less of an issue of scale,
Is it driven more by political risk or the need to improve the CO2 or the emission in general the
whole organization or is it the factor that basically as we move towards a world of more electric
cars, more modular possibly that scale is less correlated with size. I'd love to have your views on
that and then for Nicola more questions on the cash flow versus the P&L relatively weaker cash
flow by your standards in Q1
I'm just wondering what is the impact on cash flow of your, the adjustments of the inventory that
you've talked about.
And I guess, some of it is -- it's P&L, some it is cash flow so it goes through the working capital.
And I am just wondering if, how much of that is -- that adjustment is cash, is that going to affect
Q2 as well and then it's not until second half of this year that we get to more -- smoother cash
flow profile than what we saw in the first quarter. Thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Philippe. So Oliver, you want to start.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Yeah, Philippe, I think you are at the core of strategic discussion. I think we have not changed our
approach that first of all, BMW (inaudible) player with an international footprint. We had our first
plant in the United States already in 1992. Our first plants in China, already in 2003. So that is a
development. What is -- of course, it's on the increase is the volume and you mentioned that of
course, that's obviously matter of economies of scale and the bigger these regions and market is
the more it makes sense to localize of course and we just opened, another plant, up in Shenyang
besides the two other plants we had there. So we have a third plant there now due to the market
increase and of course that is localized, that's the first thing. So we are continuing what we have
been doing in the past and that also is a kind of resilience factor because these factories, have a
natural hedging in themselves, which helps us a lot to balance our specific risks, especially on the
FX side. What is coming on top though is that the regulators in these regions are becoming more
diverse in terms of safety -- active and passive safety of the cars in terms of connectivity and of
course in terms of CO2 regulation.
So we do as I said before, the 3 Series long wheel, the X5 long wheel, we only offer in China. For
the 7 Series we will have diesel only in Europe, but not in the United States. On the country a V8
engine, we only have in the United States and in Europe. So with that global approach together
with flex architectures gives us the opportunity to respond very swiftly to specific market demand
and at the same time, staying efficient and profitable.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
So, Philippe, if we look at free cash flow, on one hand side on the working capital side, we had
positive elements coming from decrease in inventory levels and decrease in trade receivables,
but this was off -- more than offset by trade payables as production was constrained in Q1 and
then on top as this was a very specific topic in China, we had a decline of either down payments
in quite a substantial amount caused due to the production and closing of the dealership at the
end of the first quarter and then additionally higher tax payments to due to the strong positive
development of our results. And this is also explaining why we are very confident to be able to
deliver in line with our EUR12 billion target.A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Nicolas. So we will spend some moment in our call and so that we have time for three
more questions. So, next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank of Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, thank you very much gentlemen. Thank you for taking my questions. Tim from Deutsche
Bank. I think the first two are probably to Nicolas and as you said, it's more difficult than ever to
predict current market developments. You already said something about your margin
development and that you were happy to be at the upper end of this quarter, how should we
think about absolute profitability for the next three quarters were Q2 be very weak because of
the China impact and everything else that's going on and then sort of H2 stronger in absolute
terms than H1, or do you also expect that in absolute terms with this strong Q1 actually H1 will be
better than H2.
Secondly, this can just be a yes, Nicolas. In contrast to the past you gave us an underlying or some
would say adjusted margin figure for the Chinese joint venture consolidation. Given the
importance for your cash return story. Is it still fair to assume that we think about when it comes to
dividend about your stated earnings figure alone and not some sort of adjusted figure.
And then lastly, Oliver, probably to you, you are part of the group of executives that regularly
leads [ph] did with the German government. My impression from meeting them as well as that
they are still quite reluctant to do this, but what would happen to your German production if
Germany should indeed ultimately decide not to buy gas from Russia anymore, you must have
that's worth scenario. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, Nicolas. If you want to start.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, let's, start Tim, with the dividend, of course, based on stated and so no change in the way
we guide in this area. Absolute profitability for the next three years, three quarters, you probably
anticipate what I'm going to answer. Well, starting to the year was very strong as we've outlined
and this is why we are confident that we are able to stick to the 7% to 9% in terms of EBIT auto
margin, of course, in particular, the development in China will in a positive or negative way impact
probably very much Q2 results. So that's too early to make an final comment. We have some
positive, some more negative developments in this area but as China is an very important market
to our company, it will have an impact for the full year based on despite the fact that there is, as
we all know and we all know the different items and topics there is a high volatility. But based on
what we anticipate, based on our good order bank, strong order bank in all 3 major regions. All of
the positive feedback we continue to get from our network in China we have to deliver against
the 7% to 9% for the full year.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Yeah, Tim. So thank you for your question about the gas, and I think foremost of all the currentto or our production and since we have long-term safeguarded ourselves using various
mechanisms, electricity prices are safeguarded for longer period of time. Currently we are
contributing positively about possible effects, which might have a gas shortage or even the gas
disruption. Everything else I think would be speculation and of course, please understand that we
don't want to be part of a speculation. Of course, there are some areas, especially in production
where we need gas to -- for our production. But we are working very positively with the
government officials here.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, thank you. So next question please.
Operator
The next question is from is from `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein Research of Bernstein Research. Your line is now open.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein Research
Hi. This is Daniel from Bernstein. Thanks for taking the question. Two then if I may at the end. This
morning and earlier, you highlighted the benefits of the flexibility of the drive train (inaudible)
Could you elaborate which drivetrain technologies are currently being integrated and developed
for the NEUE KLASSE. And then secondly, could you comment on BMW's progress on the e-
architectures. When do you expect to move from a domain centric design to virtualized domains
to kind of a more centric vehicle design, is that also for NEUE KLASSE or is that something you
would expect to achieve earlier. Thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
So thank you, Daniel. And Oliver now
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
The NEUE KLASSE starting in 2025 will be mainly focused on the middle car segment of our
product portfolio. So it does not cover from the lower segment, all the way to the luxury
segment. So when it hits the market, it will be concentrated on the 3 Series segment and at that
point in time, the market will have developed into a size where it is reasonable to have only one
drivetrain in that architecture. So the NEUE KLASSE will have only one drivetrain is that only. And I
think it's from a timing point exactly the right time to do so. And in the e/e-architecture as we
said, digital, electric and sustainable are the main re-arms of that NEUE KLASSE and of course it
will have the next step of development of our e/e-architecture and we -- you will get more and
more knowledge about this over the years, but it's too early to communicate anything already
now.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein Research
Great. Oliver. One follow up if I may. (Multiple speakers)
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Yeah.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein ResearchIt there a change on NEUE KLASSE, because I think to remember that there were couple of
drivetrain options for NEUE KLASSE so was that a cost decision to switch to BB only?.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
No, that must be, I don't know where you have this from, for some time we have communicated,
there is only one drive train, it will be best only. And we've said that one year ago already.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein Research
Very clear. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. So the final question, please.
Operator
The final question is from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale of Societe Generale. Your line is now open.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you. My question is about how you see the market and how you see BMW. Your -- one of
your principal competitors has gave a little bit sanction by announcing already even before the
semiconductor shortage become a thing that they were renouncing their aim to be number one
in terms of volume in the luxury space, but they want to be most profitable. And obviously the
semiconductor shortage has caused most manufacturers to try to concentrate on their highest
contribution margin vehicles and led to the margins that we see today. How do you define BMWs
mission now going forward when the semiconductor shortages ease and you are able to produce
more vehicles. You've seen in the US that your -- you've increased your sales with despite having
a substantial reduction in your day supply, your dealers. I think in 2018-2019,. you had an average
about 50 days supply, you're down to 10 days supply but still your sales are increasing.
What lessons you're learning from that? And do you think that would give more confidence to the
market that BMW and other manufacturers are concentrating more on profit, and less on volume
and maybe that changes some of the paradigm about the way your company is valued. Thank
you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Stephen. So Oliver please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman `
Look there is no such thing as the volume strategy. You know, I mean in our industry, you wouldn't
do that. In the year 2022, we have our biggest product offensive we've ever seen here at BMW.
You know, you have the i7, you have the iX1 and of course with create putting profitability at the
very forefront of our operation, we still want to gain market share and that if you put that
combination gaining market share with high profitability. I wouldn't call that a volume strategy. We
have increasingly extremely competitive products with all different drivetrain, look at the test
results of our -- that is only -- they win one after the other test, that's why we are confident that
we can gain market share, especially in the best segment and we will become a very visible
market player in that that we are and there is no such thing as a volume strategy here.A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Oliver. And ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us today in this call. We wish
you all a pleasant day. Goodbye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This call is being concluded. You may
disconnect now.