Q1 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon and welcome to the Novartis Q1 2022 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. (Operator Instructions).
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much everybody and good morning and good afternoon to all participants. Thank
you for joining us today for Novartis' quarter one 2022 results. Before we start, just wanted to go
through the Safe Harbor statement. The information presented today contains forward-looking
statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. These may
cause the actual results to be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For a description of some of these
factors, please refer to the company's form, Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly results on
Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and furnished to the US Securities and Exchange
Commission.With that I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir. And thanks everyone for joining our conference call today. If we could move
forward a few slides.
So with me today I have `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer; and Karen Hale, our Chief Legal
Officer. If we go to Slide 4, overall the quarter came up with a solid start for Novartis across all of
our four key pillars. From a growth standpoint good sales growth, both at the IM and Sandoz and
of course the overall group level. Good productivity, group core operating income up 9% on
constant currency basis, as well as a solid result in both IM and Sandoz. Some important
innovation milestones, I'll go through those in a bit more detail. And we also continue to advance
our ESG agenda in AMR as well as access to medicines agreements in Africa. So I think a solid
quarter, that we can build on over the course of this year.
Moving to the next slide. Our innovative medicines sales grew across both our US and ex-US
geographies, 3% in the US, 5% ex-US in constant currencies with growth drivers now accounting
for 56% of our IM sales, growth of the -- growth drivers up 21% quarter-over-quarter. So a nice
demonstration that we continue to replace our sales base with newer and newer products.
Now moving to Slide 6. We saw strong performance on our key growth drivers, the six brands,
we've been consistently highlighting. And I'll talk about them in a bit more detail. But you can see
really across these key brands growth that range from the high single digit to the double-digit
range. So, again pleased with the broad-based performance, of course there were pockets of
weakness and we can talk more about that. But overall, we're pleased that we're off to this solid
start on the key brands.
But let's go a bit deeper on the six key brands. So moving to the next slide, on Slide 7, you see
that on Cosentyx, Entresto, Zolgensma, Kisqali, Kesimpta, and Leqvio, we had good growth on
the major brands that we really believe will drive our mid-term sales performance. And of course
continue to maintain our peak sales guidance on these brands. Importantly as well as Kesimpta
has now demonstrated in Q1 the potential we expect of this brand to really reach that multi-billion
dollar potential with very strong growth in the quarter. And we'll talk more about that. And with
Leqvio, continue to build a solid foundation base for what will be a multi-year journey to get to a
multi-billion dollar sales potential, but I think the initial foundational elements are starting to come
into place. So again, it will be a longer-term journey for this brand.
Moving to Slide 8, and going to each one of these brands, brand by brand. First with respect to
Cosentyx double-digit sales growth, 12% on the quarter really driven by our ex-US performance.
And when you look at this specifics on the growth momentum, we saw steady volume growth in
the US and EU we had 700,000 patients now across our five indications treated worldwide since
launch. Very good performance in rheumatology across geographies. We expect double-digit
growth in '22 driven by our China market expansion. Year-to-date our China performance has
been good. We also will in the medium term be driven by our ability to get new indications online.
We're on track for our hidradenitis suppurativa submission this year, and we do expect CHMP
decision on a couple of additional indications later in quarter two. So we confirm our $7 billion plus
peak sales expectations for Cosentyx.
Moving to the next slide. Entresto had an outstanding first quarter growing 42% on the quarter,
driven by both US and ex-US performance. You can see here the US weekly NBRx showing a nice
steep ramp as we come out, particularly as we come out of the pandemic period. This growthprimarily driven by reduced ejection fraction, especially with the new guidelines that are now in
place, but also supported by the preserved ejection fraction indication. We have strong demand
growth in Europe for the brand and in China, as well as Japan the launch of our hypertension
indications and the NRDL listing in China have helped drive this growth. So longer-term, we
expect the continued development of evidence-based, the continued drive of the guidelines that
place R&E as a first choice for physicians treating reduced ejection fraction heart failure, as well as
for further penetration in China and Japan to drive the momentum for Entresto.
Moving to the next slide. Zolgensma grew 18% on the quarter with increasing access outside of
the United States. As the Q1 highlights were really ex-US where we had sales growth, 32% in
constant currency, while the US remained steady as we continue to drive up the newborn
screening rate. So right now we have over 2,000 patients treated worldwide, which I think
demonstrates the profile of this gene therapy. And the confidence providers are having in using
this medicine. In the future, our growth will be driven by continuing to penetrate in the US in the
under two, really getting to a high market share, we expect to have over 90% of children who are
diagnosed the newborn screening receiving Zolgensma that's our goal, and continuing to drive
up that newborn screening in the EU above 25%.
Our next phase of data studies or data generation is on track the STEER study with intrathecal in
older children is currently enrolling the STRENGTH study to further profiling the IV setting is
starting in the second half. And we also rolled out some additional data at NDA, which support
the overall profile of Zolgensma IV. So this will be a steady ramp towards our goal to be towards
the $2 billion product over time. But overall the signs and signals are good.
Moving to the next slide. Kisqali demonstrated at 20 -- delivered 28% growth on the quarter
primarily driven again by ex-US performance. The market trends show a recovery to pre-COVID
levels for CDK4/6 TRx but we continue to see a suppression in the NBRx part of the market. And
so, we'll have to continue to watch to see that recovery, which will be critical for us, because a lot
of our growth is dependent on new to brand patients. Kisqali's growth in the US is in line with
market, but in Europe, we're continuing to grow ahead of market and I'll speak more about the
NATALEE adjuvant study update that we provided today in an upcoming slide.
Moving to Slide 12, now turning to Kesimpta. Kesimpta really I think had a strong quarter. We had
20,000 patients treated, over 60% are naive or first switch. In the US we see really strong growth
dynamic despite a suppressed market you can see in the upper left-hand side of the slide. The
US MS market growth remains below its pre-COVID levels. Nonetheless, we see Kesimpta
continuing to gain momentum. And now outside of the United States we're approved in 68
countries. So over the course of this year and really starting in 2023, we would expect the ex-US
contributions to the brand to start to increase. We again rolled out additional data in the quarter,
now at four years out, showing the ability to reduce disability worsening with stable IgG levels as
well as data that supports the use of Kesimpta in patients who need to be treated with COVID-19
vaccination. So overall I think a strong start to the quarter, a lot of good momentum with Kesimpta
and we'll look forward to delivering that momentum or accelerating that momentum over the
course of the year.
And moving to the next slide, Slide 13. Turning to Leqvio, again early days, particularly in the US,
but I think the leading indicators point to the foundations being put in place to have this brand
become a very significant brand for the company. We've reached over 90% of HCPs. We have
good unaided brand awareness. Our DTC is now initiated. We've also established access in over
-- especially over 50 now 200 -- up to 200 prioritized systems, so 35 on the slide, but we're up
to 50 have ordered Leqvio. Our focus very much is in driving more depth in those accounts. We
have a 55% of our alternative injection sites accounts now have purchased Leqvio, 30% repeatorders and importantly our permanent J-code has been granted, and will go into effect on July 1.
So all of this to say that the foundations are in place for the second half -- in the second half of
this year to begin to see some more acceleration and growth for Leqvio going into what we
expect to see further acceleration in the coming years.
Now moving to the next slide, just wanted to say a word on our two recent launches in the US,
Scemblix, our BCR-ABL inhibitor, stamp inhibitor showed nice performance in the quarter. In the
third line setting, here you can see our NBRx share has reached 20% through February, still small
numbers, but I think it points to the potential of this medicine given its strong efficacy and safety
profile. We're up to 49% third line patient share. And our first line Phase III study is now enrolling
ahead of plan. So we remain optimistic that we can deliver over $500 million brand in the third
line setting, but our focus in the longer term is hopefully with positive data moving to the frontline
setting.
Moving to the next slide with Pluvicto. So we, at the -- towards the end of the quarter received
approval for Pluvicto. And I think on the US launch we're off to a good start and getting again the
key elements in place to really drive this launch. As a reminder the population is metastatic CRPC
patients who are post relevant chemotherapies, patient selection is driven by a gallium PSMA-11
agent to identify patients who would benefit from Pluvicto, there was a 38% reduction in the risk
of death in these patients. So a lot of physician and KOL interest in the medicine in the prostate
cancer space. Six infusions, six week over six weeks, which really gives us opportunity for a one-
time therapy over that period of time and then patients started derive the benefit. We're building
on our Lutathera experience with this medicine. Our commercial field teams are in place, we see
high awareness already in the 240 treatment centers that we're targeting, initially 40 RLT centers
are already on-boarded into the ordering system and many of these centers have experience
with us. And we have submitted the application for the permanent A code for this medicine.
Now in Europe, we expect approval in the second half of '22. And we also are progressing on
track with our Phase III studies in the pre-taxane and hormone-sensitive setting. And we're also --
which would expand the patient population 3x to 4x and allow us to target a patient population to
enable to be a multi-billion dollar brand over time. And we're evaluating additional Phase III
studies in the earlier line setting.
And moving to the next slide. Wanted to say a word on Sandoz. Our business dynamics in Sandoz
as you saw in the quarter really stabilized. We are benefiting from a lower prior year comparison.
Nonetheless it is a positive sign to see now stabilizing Sandoz business with good growth, 8%
overall, was driven by performance in Europe at 9% that we do see now moving towards a
bottoming out of the US business as we look to get that region back to growth. Very good
biopharma performance and retail performance, core operating income was up quite
significantly, but again benefiting from both prior year comps as well as certain one timers.
And so, overall given the geographical uncertainties, price erosion and other inflationary
pressures Sandoz faces, we're maintaining our guidance for Sandoz on the full year. But we'll of
course continue to monitor and see how Sandoz performs. Just as a reminder, we continue to
view Sandoz as having the potential to be the leading generics company in the world, driven by
its biosimilars presence and strength as well as key success factors, which we reviewed on the
previous call. Overall our strategic review remains on track and we would plan to provide an
update on the strategic review at the latest by the end of this year.
So moving to the next slide. In terms of the pipeline, some important milestones. But I'll really
dive in on just a handful, Pluvicto was our key approval in the quarter that we had some other
approvals around the world as you can see here. In terms of submissions, we are continuing tomove forward with Tislelizumab in the EU and our filing is on track in the US as well. I'll go through
in a little bit more detail our JDQ data on the subsequent slide. We continue to see good interest
in Iptacopan around the world as we head towards our first Phase III readout in the second half of
this year. And we're on track, we've already started our T-Charge Phase II study in multiple
myeloma and plan to start in Phase III and DLBCL in the second half of the year. And I've already
mentioned the Phase III start of Zolgensma.
So let's move for a moment to JDQ, so at AACR on the next slide, so we showed early signs of
clinical activity with acceptable safety and tolerability for this KRAS G12C. As a reminder, we have
a unique structure to this medicine versus the other G12C inhibitors, which we believe allows us to
optimize the PK/PD for the medicine. When you look at the data set, we demonstrated a
competitive safety and efficacy profile though again with the caveat that this was a small study,
57% are at the target dose of 200 milligrams BID, no grade three or higher treatment-related
AE's so really nice safety profile.
When we look at the modeling of the overall PK of this medicine, high systemic exposure, high
target level occupancy. So we're pleased with how the medicine has performed thus far. So we're
moving forward rapidly in recruiting our combination study with SHP2 as well as another separate
study with anti-PD1. And so both the studies are moving forward and we are also preparing to
start our monotherapy Phase III program in non-small cell lung cancer versus chemotherapy, which
we plan to open shortly.
Now moving to the next slide. We also wanted to provide an update on NATALEE. So based on
our regular update of the number of events that we are accruing, we now forecast the trial to
complete in 2023 as the forecast -- as the current event rate is lower than our originally
forecasted event rate for this study. This is a regular process we go through and now when we
look at these forecast versus or look at our actuals versus our forecast, we're currently predicting
a 2023 completion of the study. On the left hand side, you see the study design remains
unchanged from our previous update, 5,000 patients randomized one to one to ribociclib plus
estrogen therapy versus estrogen therapy alone, patients received Kisqali 400 milligrams per
day for 36 months. So a longer treatment duration, a lower dose than the metastatic setting to
really try to ensure we keep patients on therapy and keep them on therapy longer to drive the
efficacy signal.
So in terms of the recruitment, we completed 5,000 patients in April 2021. Our primary analysis is
that 500 events we have approximately 300 events to date. In the quarter we successfully
completed a futility analysis, we have two interim analysis planned between now and the end of
the study, but neither has occurred yet. And the discontinuation rate remains low in the single
digit percentages, which I think demonstrates the overall profile in terms of safety and tolerability
of the medicine.
So all on track. We'll continue to keep you updated as we progress this important study. As a
reminder the opportunity here is significant, we estimate in 2027 that the market for in the
adjuvant setting could be $7 billion and the ability to target both the intermediate and the severe
patients is significant and that we estimate there are three times as many patients in the
intermediate risk versus the high-risk patient population. So this would offer us if successful, a
significant medicine for the company.
Moving to the next slide. So our overall events are on track, I won't go through the slide in detail.
We continue to keep you updated as we progress on these events across our regulatory
decision, submissions, study read-outs and study start. So moving to the next slide. With that I'll
hand the mic over to Harry. Harry?`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon everyone. I am now going to walk you
through some of the financials of the first quarter and as always my comments refer to growth
rates in constant currencies, unless otherwise noted.
So on the next slide, we present our results for the quarter. Overall as Vas mentioned we
delivered solid sales and profit growth. I think it's also important to keep in mind that this
quarter's results with prior year comparison are affected by the divestment of our Roche
investment and the corresponding loss of income from associated companies, which you see
here in the lines below operating income. To aid the comparisons we have published a
reconciliation of our 2021 results excluding those impacts on our website. And we have also
showed here the growth excluding prior year Roche investment income.
In quarter one sales and core operating income grew 5% and 9% respectively. Now with the sales
benefiting from a strong performance of end market brands and core operating income driven
by higher sales and increased productivity. Net income grew 15%, mainly driven by higher core
operating income. And core EPS grew 2%. However as you can see, if we exclude the impact of
the prior year Roche income, net income would have grown 32% and core EPS 12%. Of course we
expect these impacts on EPS and core EPS to be offset over time by our ongoing $15 billion share
buyback program, which we expect to conclude in the second half of 2023. Free cash flow was
negatively impacted by $0.5 billion due to the loss of Roche annual dividend share paid out last
year in March. However, important to note, underlying free cash flow is in line with expectations
and operationally we are on track to reach our full year free cash flow objective.
In summary, it has been a solid start to the year with the strength of our in-market growth drivers.
(inaudible), Entresto, Kesimpta, Cosentyx, Zolgensma and Kisqali and our new launches including
Leqvio and Pluvicto, reinforcing our confidence in our mid-term growth expectations.
As you can see on the next slide, innovative medicine sales grew 4% benefiting from the strong
performance of the in-market brands, partly offset by generic erosion, especially in the oncology
portfolio. Innovative Medicine's bottom line grew 5% and core margin reached 35.9%, up slightly
from the prior year in constant currencies. Sandoz numbers benefited this year due to significantly
lower prior year base with business dynamics continuing to return to normal with net sales up 8%
and core operating income up 20%. And the margins improving 330 basis point to 22.8% of
sales. Overall the group core margin increased by 111 basis points to 32.6% mainly driven by
Sandoz performance for the quarter.
Turning now to our guidance slide, on Slide 24. We are confirming our guidance for the full year.
And as a reminder, within the divisions, we expect another year of Innovative Medicine sales
growing mid single digit and core operating income to grow mid to high single-digit ahead of
sales. The expected Innovative Medicines' core margin increase will be driven by good top-line
momentum and continuation of productivity programs, including the recently announced new
organizational structure. These drivers are expected to more than offset the anticipated higher
energy cost and inflation pressures in our supply chain. And for Sandoz, it's important to note that
the very low quarter one prior year base with the weak cough and cold season due to COVID and
the uncertainty related to currently political -- geo --current geopolitical events.
Therefore we continue to expect the top line to be broadly in line with the prior year and core
operating income to decline low to mid single digit. Of course we will be monitoring during
quarter two and given the strong quarter one performance to see if we can give an update here.
But for now, given that the geopolitical events are likely to hit a bit harder, Sandoz if you will, weremain cautious here. This will be mainly driven by the expected gross margin pressures because
also pricing and inflation coming in. And of course we will have got a clearer picture later in the
year. For the Group, we expect both the top and the bottom line to grow mid single digit. The key
assumption for this guidance is that we see continuing return to normal global healthcare
systems, including prescribing dynamics and that no Sandoz and LAR generics enter in the US in
2022.
And then finally on Slide 25 given the strengthen -- the strengthening US dollar and as currencies
are constantly changing, I want to bring to your attention the estimated currency impact on our
results using current exchange rates. In quarter one, currently at a negative 4 percent point
impact on net sales and negative 6 percent point impact on core operating income. Looking
forward, if late April rates prevail for the remainder of '22, we expect full-year impact of
currencies on top line to be a negative 4 percent points and on bottom line a negative 5 percent
points. In quarter two, the impact on sales would be negative 5 to negative 6 percent points. And
on bottom-line negative 6 percent points. And as a reminder, we update these currency impact
estimates monthly on our website.
And with that, I hand it back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So if we go to Slide 27, also today we announced the appointment of Ronny Gal
as our Chief Strategy and Growth Officer. As a reminder, we created the strategy and growth
function to enable us to combine corporate strategy R&D portfolio management and external
business development into a single unit to help us drive the near mid and long-term growth of
the company. So Ronny will report to me on as he sit on the Executive Committee. He brings over
20 years of lifesciences experience both on the analytical side of things, but also deep
understanding of the science in the US commercial environment, previously worked in
management consulting as well as business development. So very excited to welcome Ronny to
the team no later than August 1st of this year.
So moving to the last slide. Six key priorities we outlined in January and they remain on track,
successfully launching our key -- driving our key launches Leqvio, Kesimpta, Pluvicto and Scemblix
maintaining the growth momentum across our six key growth drivers progressing our pipeline of
over 20 potential significant assets that have the potential to be approved by 2026, optimizing
our portfolio with our Sandoz review on track, but also remaining disciplined on M&A and business
development, delivering returns, and so the recent reorganization with the potential of a billion
dollars plus productivity that we're committing to, has been announced and will continue to work
through that over the course of this year. And of course maintaining the foundations of culture
data science and ESG.
So with that, I'll close and open the line for questions. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Sorry.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, and one note, I forgot to mention, please limit yourself to one question and we'll try to do
multiple rounds if we have time. Thank you.Operator
Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) Your first question today comes from the line of Graham
Parry from Bank of America. Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So it's just a follow-up on NATALEE, the original trial
design, I think only have two interims. So one was futility at 40% of events. And then there was a
stock for outstanding efficacy at 70% of events. And I think total event number you're looking for
there was just over 300. But -- so you're highlighting now that you have two efficacy interims as
well as the futility that's already passed. So can you just help us understand the trial design. So
what percentage of events was that futility analysis performed at. And then at what percentage
of events over two upcoming efficacy analysis. And then just to confirm those have the potential
with the stop for efficacy in them? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. So as you know we amended the study protocol to increase to 500
events along the way. And with that we added -- we updated as well the various readouts. So the
-- I don't have in front of me the readout for the futility endpoint. But I can say that our interim
analysis for efficacy are at the 70% and 85% information fraction. So that when we would expect
to have those interim analysis. But of course it's difficult to predict based on an event driven study
as to when exactly those would occur. And so, we'll continue to keep you up to date. And as a
reminder, we don't guide to specific time-lines on interim analysis and will only provide updates if
a material information is provided by the DMC. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thank you very much for taking the question. It's a broader question on multiple sclerosis. It was
flagged up on a call yesterday that traditionally Russia and Ukraine is disproportionately involved
in MS studies. Since you have I think about 30 ongoing MS trials around the world, I just wonder if
you could give us an update on the current situation, any potential exposure you have to trials in
Russia and Ukraine and any effect that could have on trial time-lines? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Simon. So overall, again we feel like our trials are manageable in Russia -- in Russia
and the Ukraine. We are in the single digit percentages in terms of the percentage of Russia and
Ukraine patients in our global studies. Now specifically in multiple sclerosis, we are in the roughly
low to mid teens on the studies in terms of the percent of the global patients for our BTK
inhibitor multiple sclerosis studies. But we already have plans in place to offset those. And so at
the moment, we believe we can fully mitigate the patients required from those two countries, no
patients in our multiple sclerosis BTK study or LOU studies were -- have been enrolled so far. And
so we'll simply reallocate to other markets and we expect to remain on track. We'll of course
keep you updated if anything were to change in that regard.
Next question, operator.Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. It's another Russian question, one for Harry please. The annual report for
last year shows that you have just under $0.5 billion of Russian ruble receivables. I'd be interested
to understand how is cash collection today. Are you limiting deliveries to only people who pay you
upfront? And then how should we think about impairment testing on that quite sizable amounts
of money? And then finally, Harry, if you were to have to write some down, would it go through
core or would it not?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Matthew. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So Matthew, overall our cash collections and shipments actually are very normal. Cash
collections are very good actually. Now over the past years in this role, almost we're over nine
years, we always had here and there some difficulties with the wholesaler. And then we put these
wholesaler in question on the payment plan on potentially prepayment plan. But it's not the case
yet with any of them. Of course we monitor on a daily basis and the receivables are in ruble, you
have seen also ruble returning back if you were to the strengths. And we have not seen
difficulties to pay.
Now in terms of impairments, we would have to see, but I don't expect actually impairments on it,
we are highly insured. A significant part of these are insured. And from that standpoint, we
carefully monitor, we are insured. And we don't see issues yet. Again we monitor should that
change, we would inform you. But I see a very stable product flow and a very stable cash
collection.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Many thanks indeed. Perfect.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Harry. And just one update to Graham's first question. The futility analysis was done at a
40% information fraction. I would also note it does take us a couple of months between a lot for
one of these and to actually have the DMC read the data. So next question operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein `
Oh, great, thank you very much for taking my question. So can I just please ask about Kesimpta
life cycle management. So I appreciate you're still early -- in the early stages for the product. But
one of your key competitors has started a six-month subcu trial earlier this year. And they alsohave a high dose trial ongoing. So do you have any plans to extend the dosing frequency and/or
change the dose for Kesimpta in an attempt to really ensure durable share gains. I appreciate it's
a bit further down the line, but just curious to hear your thoughts?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Wimal. So first I think the key benefit of Kesimpta, that the patient doesn't have to
go into the center and have to deal with pre-treatment with steroids and additional observation.
So our understanding of competitor lifecycle management activities would still involve the patient
ultimately coming in to the center, and of course then going into the various elements involved
with that. So our focus remains on providing that flexibility for patients. We find it to be a key value
driver both the outstanding safety, excellent efficacy, but also monthly at home administration in
terms of total time in the patients' lives, it's significantly lower.
We are evaluating various life-cycle management activities, but at this point in time, we haven't
actually, you know, instigated I guess any new studies. We'll continue to evaluate and we'll keep
you posted.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next operator, question operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Unusually across the industry, Novartis has built, and is building a large cardiovascular
presence. I'm just curious whether you see any role for a Factor XI inhibitor within that space.
There is at least a couple of partnered agents at (inaudible) which I can barely pronounce. But
you're familiar with given it came from your own portfolio. And then second, potentially partnering
with Bayer on their Factor XI. I wonder if you have any comments?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Andrew. So in terms of Factor XI, we developed a very attractive Factor XI agent that
we ultimately determined at the end of Phase II that it would be better to move it forward in
other people's hands. So we struck a partnership with Blackstone Life Sciences. They have taken
the medicine forward and continue to develop it. So we continue to monitor the progress of the
medicine. At the moment our view is that the focus we have on heart failure. And on the various
contributors to ASCVD between of course PCSK9 Lp (a) as well as other factors is enough at the
moment to take on, but we certainly are monitoring the space with a keen eye to what is the size
of studies and the amount of investment it will be required to differentiate on safety, given that
no acts will ultimately go generic in the coming years. And that will be the standard that we'd
have to go up against. But we'll keep you posted if anything were to change. Thank you.
OperatorThank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just looking at the oncology franchise in general, there seems
to be a number of de-stockings in Q1. So should we anticipate this to reverse in Q2 and also
should we think for the rest of the year about an acceleration as diagnosis improves as we come
out of the pandemic. Just thoughts on the overall franchise there. Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. In quarter one, we saw a few dynamics, one we continued to see in certain
cancers that we have a focus in such as breast cancer, lower diagnosis rates than pre-COVID
levels and lower NBRx as I mentioned with Kisqali. That combined is we also did see de-stocking
and impacts on some of our, let's call it more mature brands and mature promoted brands as
well as off patent brands. At the moment, we do expect the trend have stabilized and we expect
in the remainder of the year the performance in oncology to be driven by our newer medicines,
of course Kisqali as well as Pluvicto, Scemblix et cetera. But of course continued performance
from Promacta/Revolade and Jakavi. And so, I think we'll have to monitor it closely, but we're
optimistic that things will start to get back to normal over the course of Q2.
Next question, operator. Thanks, Richard.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for taking the question. Perhaps one on JDQ. Congratulations on the impressive AACR
update. Just curious in your strategy to differentiate or catch up there given you're little late
behind the leaders in that space. I am particularly interested on the latest perspectives as regard
to the SHP2 combination as you started internal combination program. Does that signal de-
prioritization of the marquee collaboration and when indeed might we see an update of the
clinical update of the combination dates from either remote study or indeed your own internal
efforts? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Emmanuel. One of the things we've observed thus far in very early clinical data is, in
order to have a good combination agent, we need a pretty clean profile from the G12C agents.
One of the advantages we hope we will have is given the absence of, grade three, four AEs in
our study, that it is a kind of combination agent of choice so that despite us being late, we will
have the opportunity to combine the medicine with other attractive agents. With our SHP2, I thinkthat's part of the story, we do have studies ongoing with Mirati and Amgen, but we believe our
JDQ molecule is optimized for combination with our SHP2 to really allow us to get the optimal
dosing with limited AEs and hopefully maximize the benefit for patients in our study.
So the key to our strategy is having a medicine that can be the combination agent of choice from
a G12C standpoint, and then hopefully demonstrate, despite us being late in mono that we'll be
able to win the battle on the long run with combinations PD1, SHP2 and perhaps others. Important
to note, we still need to do larger studies. I don't want us to over extend our interpretation of a
relatively small clinical study. But at least the early signals are promising.
Thank you Emmanuel. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to ask on the business in China. I know you had --
Innovative Medicines had a very strong quarter in first quarter, but just if you are seeing any
impact as we get into second quarter from lockdowns in some of the major cities or just any
impact on the broader business? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe I'll give the China question to Harry. Harry on China.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Emily. So, overall we have seen very limited impact in China as you say in quarter
one, not at all. And in quarter two, of course, we are daily monitoring, you know, when there is a
city or an area with the risk of lockdown, usually then wholesalers should bit earlier to ensure that
pharmacies on and hospitals on the ground have product. And so, we don't see really impact,
very marginal only, and of course we continue to monitor that.
I mean, it's one of the reasons why we also kept our forecast assumptions should this spread
bigger, you know, there would be likely some impact. But we have kept the forecast assumption
that we need to see continuation to return to normal, prescribing behaviors. And to China
certainly is one of the focus areas for that forecast assumption. But again, so far we don't see or
very limited impact of this. And we will continue to monitor and provide you an updated at quarter
two.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Harry. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. PleaseQ - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A couple of questions on Cosentyx. Q1 in the US was a little bit weaker versus what
we're expecting, and I'm wondering why? And then also just wondering how to think about that
product in 2023 as Humira faces biosimilars and as AbbVie tries to lock in formulary placement
for that product for Humira and then Skyrizi, their goal is to preserve volume with Humira, they'll
do that through stepped up rebating. And I'm imagining that puts a fair amount of new pressure
on products like Cosentyx and other brands in the category. Is that a fair assessment? And does
that kick in only in 2023 and beyond? And does that at all pose a risk to the $7 billion peak sales
guidance?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Tim. I mean, we remain confident and confident in the $7 billion plus peak sales
guidance. When you look at the dynamics in quarter one, and this is pretty standard for us is when
we look at re-verifications as well as the other elements in the US to get patients confirmed for
the remainder of the year. This is within the, I would say dynamics we've historically seen for the
brand. We saw good volume growth overall with Cosentyx particularly in rheumatology. That said,
in the US, we would expect to be growing in the single-digit range in the next two years, until we
get our new indications and new formulations online, which we then think will give us the next
wave of acceleration. Cosentyx additional growth will be driven by our strength in Europe as well
as the China NRDL listing and launches elsewhere around the world. So it's a combination of
those factors that will drive the growth in the next two years and then the new indications, new
formulations et cetera will give us the next boost, which we believe to get us over that $7 billion
mark.
And in terms of the specifics on the Humira. Humira dynamics et cetera and again I think that's all
built into the forecast, the numbers that I gave you right there. We feel confident in our overall
contracting position given the volumes we currently have with Cosentyx and the positions we
have with the relevant formularies.
Next question, operator. Thanks, Tim.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jeffries from Jefferies. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jeffries `
Hi, thanks. I wanted to come back to Sandoz and you flagged that there were certain one-timers
in the quarter that boosted 1Q. I wondered if you could just talk a little bit about those and what
the impact of them was? And also if you look at the margin of Sandoz, obviously a lot of that was
boosted by some of these one-time effects presumably and the easy comp. But can you give us
any sort of idea of that to the significant year-on-year growth. So core operating income margin
improvement. How much of that do you think is actually sustainable and due to some of the
efficiency measures within -- and how much of it, on the other hand is just something we should
just see if it's a 1Q one-time effect helps guide, think about the quarters coming forward. Thank
you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Peter. I'll give that one to Harry. Harry?A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Peter. Thank you. As you have seen, Sandoz has improved the margin with low base prior
year by basically 330 basis points, call it three margin points, to close to 22.8%. Now roughly two
points of those come from cost of goods, a little under 1% from SG&A and then 0.6% from OIE
where we would have these little divestment gains. As you know, everything above $25 million
divestment gain we would always co-adjust. Sometimes not too often we have little divestment
gains that are below 25. And then they would stay within OIE. But the overall OIE bucket went
from we call correctly from a minus 11 million OIE effect, total OIE prior-year quarter one to plus 7
million OIE number in '22.
So the absolute numbers are small. It's $18 million total OIE impact, which is that 0.6% of margin
or four points of the 26% improvement. So the core margin, if you take that little OIE effect out,
it's like 22%. So overall not significant, but of course we mention it when the OIE contributes to
the overall improvement. So if you take that out, that is not a bad representation, or it's a very
good representation of the underlying profitability. And then we have to see over the next
quarters how pricing will do, and of course how much do cough and cold season will be back to
fully normal. And the other thing is, of course given the larger cost of goods percent of sales, the
energy cost and some of the supply price inflation, you know, how much we offset from
productivity, overall for the company, very confident we do that, within Sandoz we have to watch
that given it's the bigger part of the P&L from Innovative Medicines.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Terrific. Thanks Harry. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you very much for taking my questions. Vas, if I look at the last six months since you
reported the third quarter on October 27th or 26th, you announced the strategic review for
Sandoz, you've done the Roche stake sale, you've reorganized Innovative Medicines business,
and today announced this new kind of initiative on kind of the growth kind of a new seat on the
ECN. Just wondering kind of -- is there a common theme across this four initiatives. It seems that
you're doing a lot on a very short period of time. So just trying to get a sense for, what's driving
this measures?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks Keyur. Look, our goal is to drive outstanding company performance for the benefit of
our shareholders and benefit of patients and society. And I think all of these moves on the first
order are creating value for our shareholders. Clearly evaluating that Sandoz fits within the Group
or is better as a stand-alone company, and we've demonstrated with Alcon, we do that in a
thoughtful way, in case of Alcon, we created an outstanding standalone company, we'll evaluate
the same with Sandoz, the sale of the Roche stake in buying back our own shares in a place
where we view our shares are undervalued relative to the potential of the company and the
growth that we have confidence in and that our Board has confidence in, again a value creating
move.Reorganizing so that we become much more agile, efficient, take out costs out of the system,
improve our overall operating performance both on the top and bottom line generate differential
growth, again I think very logical thing to do to increase shareholder returns and value and
improve the performance of the company.
And then lastly, you referenced, it was kind of part of the reorganization, but the creation of the
strategy and growth function is to create a consistent top level view of do -- what is the right
things, we need actions we need to take on our internal pipeline, versus the external
opportunities that we have before us in order to keep a consistent growth. As we've guided of
the mid-single, 4% to 5% range in the coming years and then above peer median in the back half
of the decade. So it's about performance, it's about creating shareholder returns. And it's about
driving more impact of the company on medicines.
Thank you, Keyur. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick follow-up on Sandoz
please. Could you elaborate on the performance of the different businesses. If you see any
inflection point and especially in the US were you used to be under pressure from strong pricing
pressure there. So if you start to see any inflection point, could be very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Florent. So overall Sandoz had a -- is now getting back to growth globally, but
particularly I would say Europe has had strong underlying performance driven both by biosimilars
and small molecules also good performance in international as we call it, emerging markets plus
Japan. The US still declined in the single-digit range, but we currently have an outlook that we
expect in over the course of '22 and the first part of '23 to really bottom out on the US oral solids
business, which will then allow us to build on biosimilars and new launches to get back to growth.
And we expect coming out of '23 and then into the mid 2020s -- '24, '25 et cetera for the US
business to really grow on the back of biosimilar launches as well as more first to file in the overall
injectable and small molecule pipeline.
So that's the dynamic we see, but certainly still some ways to go, a little bit more to go in the US
to get to the. But that should be coming and then we get back to growth. Europe is on very solid
footing. And then international markets we generally tend to do well.
Thanks, Florent. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Sarita Kapila, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Sarita Kapila, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. How should we think about the Lu-PSMA opportunity, particularly
given there has been a restriction to the gallium imaging agent versus gallium and (inaudible),because it limit the number of accessible patients in the overall commercial opportunity. Thank
you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks. For Lu-PSMA, we have currently worked very hard on (inaudible) our gallium agent
where we are -- we've already secured agreements to have this agent distributed widely
amongst diagnostic centers. So we expect over the coming months to be able to relieve any
constraint on imaging these patients to enable uptake of the medicine. And as I mentioned,
we're leveraging the Lutathera footprint, but also beginning to work already in bringing additional
centers online in order to fully capture the earlier line opportunities, we're going to need to move
from -- roughly 250 centers where we currently service RLTs to get to over 500 centers roughly
550 centers.
That's part of a multi-year effort. As a reminder, we expect Pluvicto in this later line third, fourth
line prostate metastatic prostate cancer setting to be around $0.5 billion to $750 million
opportunity. And really the more significant opportunity would come from the very large patient
populations in the earlier line settings where we have a readout in the second half of this year as
well as the readout next year within current evaluation ongoing to expand into additional lines of
therapy to see if the medicine can be more broadly used.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you very much. My recollection is that NATALEE readout initially was 2023, but that was
moved up to 2022, that may have been announced as early as 2019 due to confidence in an
interim look. So what changed since 2019 when things were apparently progressing very quickly.
And if the current slow event accumulation is due to delayed visits and therefore delayed event
detection as a result of the pandemic, how would that impact the final analysis? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Steve. So since 2019 we increased the sample, if my recollection is correct, we
increased the sample size of the study up. We certainly increased our overall time-line. I don't
recall exactly, but I look into the point you raise around what we said previously on interim,
certainly a very fair challenge. But with the revised you know 5,000 patients in the study in 500
events, we've been forecasting on an ongoing basis. One thing that is important to note is we
did a very detailed look over quarter one to ensure that we've collected all events. And to our
best assessment we don't believe this is our current event rate is due to delayed reporting of
events or over COVID impacts. We believe now we have a clean look at the study and that the
event rate is below our projected event rate unrelated to operational concerns, but just related
to the events accrual rate in the study. And of course, we'll keep you updated. But I think our
team did a pretty rigorous job over the recent months really ensure we have all of the best data
on hands to provide you this update.
Thanks, Steve. Next question, operator.Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS `
Hello. Thanks for taking my question. Just perhaps in the light of your Chief Strategy and Growth
Officer appointment, maybe you could touch on some comments you made on your recent call
when you announced your business reorg on the idea that you're getting your pipeline to market,
but may be need to get better at getting very big drug to market. There was not too many steps
removed from saying that you might want to think about re-prioritizing your Innovative Medicines
pipeline. So could you maybe just talk about your process for deciding when not to pursue
projects. And whether you think there is such a thing as too big of a pipeline. And specifically,
maybe you could talk about how your colleagues are incentivized to shut projects down rather
than keeping them alive? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Laura. Big question there. So a few points -- few points I'd raise kind of going step
by step. First we do have I think a rigorous approach to prioritizing our pipeline, particularly after
proof of concept readout through submission. We not only look at scientific factor, scientific
tractability, but also look at of course NPV, eNPV peak sales, return on capital employed,
probablized return on capital employed. But I think it's important that we have very good analytics
to back up those assessments of those molecules. And then make sure that also versus the
competitive set, we've looked at them with sober eyes.
So I think that's one thing we want to up-skill in the organization to have really outstanding
information with which to make those decisions. And also evaluate against other external
opportunities. Then on top of that, I previously stated that we've increased the thresholds that
we're putting in place at an asset level, not necessarily at an indication level. But we want assets
that have the potential to be multi-billion dollar assets, that won't mean that by exception, we
might go after some others when they are strategically -- have a good strategic fit. But it's
certainly our goal to find multi-billion dollar assets. And then to have the discipline to say no when
assets don't meet those thresholds.
We've also endeavored over the recent years to focus down on therapeutic areas that we really
believe we can build scale and for the long term. Clearly as Andrew mentioned earlier on the call,
cardiovascular is a top priority. Immunology given all of the various medicines we have in the
pipeline, on top of Cosentyx, of course, we have our BTK inhibitor, we have VAY as well as other
assets now progressing through, also a priority neuroscience given our presence in multiple
sclerosis, but also emerging assets we have in neuroscience. And of course solid tumors and
hematology.
So five kind of pillar TAs. Of course, we have some medicines in areas like ophthalmology and
respiratory. But we wanted to have our focus be to build scale in those five priority TAs. And again
have the discipline not always to chase anything else that might be around in other therapeutic
areas. So I think with those factors in place, we can over time really ensure we have the right
pipeline to drive growth for our company. As I mentioned, over 20 plus multi-billion dollar assets
to our current assessment, but certainly we'll ask Ronny to reassess that and give us an honest
look. And to honestly tell us where we're at and what do we need to do and where does theexternal environment give us the opportunity and where maybe there's doubling down on other
internal assets give us an opportunity as well.
So a lot of course ongoing work, but I think we're on the right track and we are hopeful and
optimistic that with Ronny coming on board, we can even accelerate on that journey.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Great. Thanks for the question. So, Vas, maybe first question is just how you see the PCSK9
environment evolving in the context of Merck's oral PCSK9, where we're seeing some pretty
robust data, love to just kind of get your thoughts there. And then the evolution of the market as
we see it for an injectable therapy?
And then second, just wanted to get a better sense of the impact of inflation and how, you know,
what levers Novartis has the capability to pull to keep up with inflation. Do you see a pricing
environment in the United States that can actually facilitate price increases because it appears
that, that won't necessarily be available in international markets. But maybe you can just correct
us where our thinking might be wrong as it relates to the ability for Novartis and the rest of
pharmaceutical industry to keep up with inflation? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Seamus. I think on the PCSK9, first it's important to take a step back and look at the
global unmet need. And there is an estimated 60 million plus patients around the world who have
ASCVD that are not adequately controlled with current agents. So big, big opportunity, in the US
alone 18 million to 20 million patients. So there is plenty of space here for many agents. And even
if we capture a fraction of that with Leqvio, we have a very sizable medicine. That I think first is
important as context.
It's also important to note with Leqvio our goal is to access that broader market. I mean, if you
look at current PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies, they're accessing a fraction of this market. So our
goal is to grow the market and with bringing it forward twice the year, Part B medicine and then
setting up the infrastructure and cardiovascular care with Part B clinics, but then also with
population health agreements around the world. We think it's a pretty unique value proposition
for an asymptomatic disease to have a twice a year therapeutic versus having chronic therapies
where we know that patients generally don't comply with their statins or ezetimibe or related
therapies.
So that's the broad strategy. So when I think about orals or monthly injectables, I don't think it
changes our strategy and our belief that in the long run the ability to provide twice a year
medicine through the physician buy and bill and Part B model in the US and population health
around the world is a long-term opportunity to address this relatively vast market opportunity.
And I mean let's see what happens. Of course, as you know in cardiovascular disease, it's a long
journey to get from early clinical data ultimately to the patients at the other side of the long
journey.A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you. And thank you, Seamus for the question. Very important of course in the
geopolitical environment we all live in, I think I would start with that. Usually also my experience,
you know and given our cost structures, inflationary pressures can be usually well balanced with
productivity measures. And so, we are not very energy-intensive. On the other hand, of course, if
inflationary measures get into the personnel cost side which over time will happen here or there, I
think we have very good productivity programs in place to offset that.
And of course also our move transformation for growth, which combines for example, our shared
service together with our manufacturing and supply chain, there, our leader, Steff Lang and his
team will further strengthen the impact of our procurement organization across our complete
external spend. So that's one element. And overall I think we are very well positioned to fight any
potential bottom line effects of with increased productivity measures. In terms of pricing power, I
mean, it's as you described, it's mainly in US given our portfolio and business, we have been
within our pricing policies on key brands, increasing in the mid single to mid to high single-digit
range to list prices. We write it depending on the rebates we have to give in a plus or minus low
single-digit environment. Of course we look at that also from a competitive standpoint. But of
course, we would always price with our commitments.
And ex-US there is a limited price increases, but potential, but much less and usually more for
Sandoz. We have also some OTC elements in the Sandoz business. But I think key is for us that
we do not only tried to offset unit pricing, but with significant productivity measures as well as via
procurement ensuring that our suppliers do the same in their productivity efforts and offset
inflation as much as possible.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Harry, thanks Seamus. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thank you. Question on M&A. Given the recent pullback in valuations and seemingly tough ITO
[ph] margins. I wonder, Vas, if you can give us your latest perspective on the environment. And in
the context of the broader market moves, are you noting more external interest, greater
willingness to discuss potential collaborations and M&A opportunities? Many thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Kerry. When you look at of course the pullback in the XBI, and I think I've heard
various data points, but many companies trading below their even the cash they have on hand. I
think it certainly points to doing the discipline look. But I think first and foremost, you have to be
science driven and really ask, is there science behind -- and good data to support an acquisition.
And I think there, as we're seeing in the broader biotech market, it's been challenging. And then I
think a lot of data readouts have pointed to the fact that it is hard to find novel drugs effectively.
So we continue to look. Our focus remains as I've guided in recent quarters into the sub $2 billion
space to see if there are attractive assets, and when there are good deals out there, we're ofcourse looking to do them. I do think over the course of this year as well expectations amongst
sellers, so to speak, will adjust and there may be more openness to think about how partnerships
and M&A and business development could be conducted. So there could be more activity
certainly in the sector, second half of the year. And we'll of course be doing our part to diligently
keep screening and see what's out there that could be attractive.
Thanks Kerry. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Hi there. Thanks for taking my question. Just one on the impact of inflation on cost base following
up from Seamus' question. Just a question on the phasing of the impact of inflation on the cost
lines because I'm guessing you have a bunch of contracts that are longer term and some
suppliers may yet have to raise prices. So should we be thinking about inflationary impact on
costs in H2 or will that be pushed into next year? And then linked to that when you formulated
your guidance early on in the year, do you feel the inflationary pressures you're seeing now are
being fully accounted for? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Naresh. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you. Naresh. Yeah, we have seen (inaudible) on energy, probably in most others. And
-- but again we are not so energy intensive. And when we basically forecast out the energy part
as well as some -- as well as the supplier base, as you say contracts a bit further out, we see
roughly one point of copping as the risk around that. But we have offsetting measures to offset
that and be well within our guidance.
And then of course the other question is, of course, will this stay here, this situation for long time?
Of course, at the moment we assume from a forecasting standpoint, it will remain for the rest of
the year. And then beyond this year, I would say again, we have many levers on productivity to
offset that. So that we are also very confident in our mid to long-term upped margin guidance,
which we did together with the announcement of transforming growth initiatives. So overall, I
would say, given our cost structures, manageable. But of course will ask for some increased
efforts to do so. But we are well prepared.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry, thanks Naresh. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please goQ - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just on your Innovative Medicines 40% plus margin target. I'm
trying to square that with some of your peers that don't seem to feel that's a sustainable level of
profitability, and given that you're a therapeutically diversified business, I would have thought, that
would lead to structurally slightly lower overall margins. I wondered if you could just highlight and
what we're missing or what's unique about Novartis that we're overlooking?
And just following on from that, Keyur mentioned, you've been demonstrating willingness to
grapple challenges within the business in recent times. And I just wonder if you could update us
on your thoughts over presence in some of your more sub-scale therapeutic categories like
respiratory and ophthalmology. I'm just wondering whether that might be baked into achievement
of that margin target exiting those areas. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. When we look at our approach, longer-term and we want to maintain R&D
in the 20% range as we've guided, we're always willing 20% of IM sales that of course we're
always willing to go up based on opportunities if they're highly attractive. And I think you see our
peers that moving around some well below that target, some well above that target. But I still
think in the long run being in that 20% range is a solid investment level given the size of the
company.
When you think about our SG&A, we want to be at the median, or better in the sector over time.
And we certainly see peers who are far more efficient than us in the SG&A areas. So when we
take our current IM margin, which is in that 36% to 37% range and we see the opportunities, you
become with technology with rationalizing our footprint with the opportunity to hopefully leverage
capabilities in market, we think we can get those 4 points to 5 points out of SG&A to get us into
that 40% range on a sustainable basis.
I can't speak to how our peers look at it. Of course it does require you to rethink your business
model. And I think what we're working on right now in IM as part of the new setup is to rethink our
country's footprint and our approach to go to market in country to make it much more flexibilized,
much more technology driven. And in the long run we hope more sustainable to enable us to
launch products highly efficiently. And that's where the opportunity comes from, it's certainly not
from cutting R&D and our innovation engine, it's coming from that other part of our P&L. And
that's how we think about it.
On the portfolio optimization, nothing new to announce, other than I think it certainly -- we are
looking as well as part of this transformation how to optimize our commercial footprint as well as
our development footprint based on the new model of a single IM unit. As part of that, of course,
we're looking at relevant TAs. And of course in respiratory we're largely limited to Xolair with a
small presence in QBM and inhaled therapeutic, in an ophthalmology really Lucentis and Beovu.
So it's naturally part of our thinking how to optimize these two areas. That's certainly something
we'll be working on over the course of this year.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead, your line is open.Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Right. Thanks for taking my follow-up. So just a question on Pluvicto. So the -- you talked about the
fact that your own gallium-based diagnostic is helping or you hope to help with the uptake. But
there is some feedback to the (inaudible) diagnostics are easier to use, easier to manufacture. I
noticed that you had done a collaboration deal with an (inaudible) diagnostic manufacturer. So can
that be back applied to the label for the vision indication and/or can you add it to PSMA for in
PSMA addition trials or would this just be for a front-line?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. So at for the current launch, we are limited to the diagnostic on label. But
certainly for the follow-up indications we're working hard to put together the relevant data
package with FDA to hopefully broaden the range of diagnostic agents that can be used. You can
imagine that as part of our discussions with the FDA, we put together our best arguments to be
as broad as possible on diagnostic options for physicians. But at least for now, on the first
indication, but will be limited to the gallium agents, but over time we hope to expand that
especially as we go into the larger market segments in the coming years.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Vas, it's a question about buy and bill. So since you acquired The Medicines
Company, you've educated us all on the advantages of buy and bill and how you hope in the US
it's going to help with the commercialization of Leqvio. I'm curious how we should think about buy
and bill when you're up against it yourself in a competitive environment. And in particular, I'm
thinking of iptacopan versus Soliris, Ultomiris and other high value infused drugs, but also
Kesimpta versus Ocrevus. Does that put a meaningful barrier in the commercialization potential
of those molecule?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. Thanks, Matthew. So one, I think it's very situation specific, so let's take each one
of those in turn. I think in the cardiovascular segment, when you're trying to displace orals, which
have low compliance, certainly at twice a year injectable that can be used in the subcu setting
very rapidly for patients who had previous heart attacks is very attractive to cardiologists and we
think will lead to meaningful clinical benefit.
Our expectation is in the rare disease setting, that while there is certainly -- it is certainly a barrier,
to be clear, it is certainly a barrier that we have to overcome that the current agents are used as
infused medicines in the buy and bill setting. That in this population, it's not a big enough driver of
the economics that providing patients an oral option to avoid having to go in and out of the
hospital could be highly appreciated, particularly given the opportunity to be front-line and be
used on top of the infused agents. So our expectation is, again, a lot of this does come to
economics. And I think in that setting, the oral medicine has a very attractive profile.And then I think in neuroscience, it is very clinic and situation-specific. We certainly see the highest
uptake in Kesimpta in segments of the market that are not highly penetrated by buy and bill. And
I think those segments of the market that have high utilization of buy and bill, there is less interest
in using Kesimpta. Luckily in MS, the penetration of B-cell therapy is still relatively low given the
efficacy of these B-cell therapy. So there is a vast market opportunity to displace the older agents
the braces, so to speak. And that is a big opportunity, that 60% of our source of business. And so
we have ample opportunity there to get into the market and be successful. So you've got to look
at the dynamics in each one. But certainly, in certain instances buy and bill can be a formidable
obstacle in our market environment.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Just following up from the last question, but staying within the cardiovascular domain.
Amgen has a mRNA-based technology, which is once every six months, it will be buy and bill.
Thinking about how you are building out the buy and bill infrastructure, I'm just thinking about with
-- I'm thinking about how that's going to fit in within that environment?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
You mean for LP(a), Andrew?
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
LP(a), yes, sorry, I misspoke.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. So of course we're watching the LP(a) evolution as well as competitive
environment. Certainly if an siRNA, which I understood as quarterly, I have to double-check with
my team if it's quarterly or bi-monthly. But certainly that will be able to be used through the
system. And as we think about life cycle managing, Leqvio, our goal will be to of course also think
about ways to continue to leverage the infrastructure that we're building.
To be clear, and I think that's your point, Andrew, I think our current LP(a) pelacarsen medicine
would not be able to leverage buy and bill. But again the size of these markets are so large, we
still think there'll be a substantial market opportunity as the first to market subcu medicines for
these patients. And then of course we will -- we are looking of course to get to less frequent
dosing. We do think to be successful in cardiovascular buy and bill, you have to be relatively
infrequent, even quarterly we'll have to see. But certainly twice a year is a winner we think in this
market segment.Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thank you for taking my second question, it's on cell therapy. I wonder firstly, Vas, if you could
elaborate on the statement in the press release about lower demand for Kymriah. Is that simply
the nature of cell therapies in general in this environment, whether there was anything specific to
Kymriah? And related to that, I see last week, you push back the time-lines for your genome
edited stem cell therapy for sickle cell from late '23 to August '25. I just wonder if you could give
us any color on why that was? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, on the second part of your question, I'd have to get back to you, Simon. I don't know off
hand on the genome editing starts. We'll come back to you on that. Look, I think on Kymriah, just
to provide a very realistic perspective, the DLBCL second line, the failure of Kymriah in the
second line DLBCL is beginning to hit demand. And I think we will see Kymriah to have less
growth over the coming quarters and year potentially even declines as our two competitors build
out their second line DLBCL program.
So, realistically for us in cell therapies of course Kymriah is the only medicine indicated in pediatric
ALL, has a broad label in later lines across DLBCL and FL. In the longer term it really comes down
to our next generation T-Charge platform, which we provide a data on at the end of last year at
ASH where we demonstrated pretty attractive data in both DLBCL and multiple myeloma. And I
think in the intervening years, it's really just managing Kymriah to provide it to patients to really
focus on that next wave technology, which we expect to have materially lower COGS, hopefully
much higher throughput times, better efficacy and safety and enable the overall business to be
significantly more attractive and more in line with other oncology agents in the company.
Next question, operator.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Great. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you very much. Kisqali had its first appreciably down quarter, quarter-over-quarter since
launch five years ago. You noted the weakness in new prescriptions, but even during the
pandemic, Kisqali was at worst flat. I am wondering what other reasons there could be for the
current weakness, it seems it could be deeper than simply new prescription trend? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So we did have some stocking movements in the US. Harry, you want to say a word on Kisqali
US. Maybe that would help explain Steve's question.A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thank you Vas. So, in US, Steve, there was a slightly higher year-end stocking effect in the US
at the end of December. That has been worked through in quarter one. Totally for the company
there was nothing, nothing significant. But so that there was an effect on that. And that was
basically impacting the US growth in the high single digit percent point. So that made it a bit
worse than what one would expect. So, but overall, of course, we see (inaudible) we need to see
more NBRx growth where we are just flat, if you will. But that was on a single brand basis, not a
small amount, if you will, that impacted of course quarter one. This was quarter one last year
comparison.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And we would expect in quarter two be at least from where we sit today to see a return to the
historical profiles, Kisqali growth.
I think we have a few more questions, operator. Next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Vas, I promise it's my last. It's on ensovibep. And if you could just give us an update where
obviously COVID is waning hopefully in or certainly in everyone's hopes. But we're still seeing
government's making very significant purchases to stockpile various treatment agents. So can you
tell us where you are in terms of your expectations for the molecule, but specifically your plans
for the subcu trial and whether or not we should expect that to start in the near future?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Matthew. As we note actually in one of the slides, we filed the EUA and the EUA
remains open with the FDA. However, at this point given the latest feedback that in our
discussions with the agency, we would expect the agency to require a Phase III study before
granting an EUA approval or a general approval. We are in discussions now to understand the
final study design and what the agency would expect. And then we need to make a kind of sober
evaluation as to, is it a doable study in light of the waning rates of COVID around the world. And
then we can make an appropriate decision.
Certainly we believe in the profile of the molecule and certainly our discussions with US
government, they're excited about the concept of a one-time subcu therapy. Alongside that we
do have a once a day oral agent that is currently completing as the various preclinical tox and
early studies. We should have a read on whether it's developable over the summer and then we
have to have a similar conversation. It's a Mpro inhibitor. And we have to have a similar
conversation with FDA as to what would be the clinical development requirement. And again in
the context, is it developable and how long would it take to just accrue the events required.
Thanks, Matt.Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Last question, operator. I think it's Graham. Graham?
Operator
Thank you very much. `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great, thanks to that. Going for round three. So as you just -- first of all just a quick follow-up to
the first question I asked on NATALEE. I just wondered, as you are slipping into 2023, is it just
slipping into 2023 or on the event rate that you're looking at the moment. Is it a first half or
second half '23 read? And then on Cosentyx, which is my actual follow-up, you got (inaudible)
Phase II data I think this year, it's a large indication, lots of patients. Just wondered if you are
thinking about this as a longer-term opportunity because on your IP slide, it says Cosentyx passes
2029 plus I'm wondering, are you looking at additional IP protection strategies for Cosentyx
beyond 2029? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Graham. On NATALEE, nothing more I can really say at this point. I think we'll
continue to update the event rates and provide more granularity on when we would expect a
final readout over the course of this year. But I think we give you the best forecast we have now
that it's now pushed into 2023. On Cosentyx, we do have the (inaudible) readout upcoming. And
we are looking at of course the standard patent extension strategies beyond 2029 also currently
to -- continuing to progress in NIBR efforts to develop an oral IL-17A inhibitor, as well as other
lifecycle management strategies, biologic strategies for Cosentyx. Nothing concrete as of yet,
but certainly high on our mind to get Cosentyx to move into the 2030, alongside continuing to
defend the full patent estate of Entresto, we have 10 Orange Book patents now issued and our
goal continues to be to defend that to see how -- to try to keep Entresto protected for as long as
possible as well.
So thank you everyone for the call. I really appreciate it. Great questions from everyone. We'll look
forward to speaking to everybody soon. Thank you again for your interest in Novartis.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.