Q2 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q2 2022 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions)
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, and thank you to all of you who've joined us today on this beautiful
summer's day for Novartis' Quarter Two Results.
Before we start, I'll just read you the safe harbor statement. The information presented today
contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For a description of
some of these factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F and its most recent quarterlyresults on Form 6-K that, respectively, were filed with and furnished to the US Securities and
Exchange Commission.
And with that, I'll hand across to Vas. Thank you.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir, and thanks, everyone, for joining today's conference call. We're pleased to go
over the results. I have with me today, `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO; and Karen Hale, our Chief Legal
Officer.
Moving to Slide 4, as you saw in the release earlier today, we delivered a solid quarter two across
each of our key value drivers; 5% growth across the entire company, as well as in Innovative
Medicines and Sandoz, continuing our productivity agenda with solid core operating income
growth across the business, as well as continued margin expansion in constant currencies, as well
as an upgrade to our expected savings from our transformation program to now $1.5 billion.
Some innovation milestones. Notably, we continue to garner approvals for Scemblix, our new
medicine for CML, including a positive CHMP opinion. And then lastly, three milestones within our
ESG efforts. First, the $250 million R&D commitment as part of the Kigali declaration for
neglected tropical diseases. We've increased our commitment to the clinical trial diversity over
the next 10 years through our Beacon of Hope project. And we also had an upgrade from MSCI to
now AA rating, top quartile within the industry, and we continue to work to further improve our
overall ESG profile.
Moving to the next slide, when you look at Innovative Medicines sales, we grew consistently
across the US and in our ex-US markets, primarily driven by our key growth drivers. We had 6%
sales in the US; 5% sales, ex-US; and you now see on the right hand side of the chart, 59% of our
sales come from our key growth drivers and those key growth drivers are now growing at 21%.
Now, moving to the next slide and zooming in a little closer on the quarter, you saw pretty
consistent performance across our key medicines and we'll go through this in a bit more detail.
Two thing -- two products I wanted to particularly call out; Kesimpta had a very strong quarter, I
think, demonstrating its overall profile as a multiple sclerosis therapy of choice, and Kisqali as well
is now gaining momentum in breast cancer -- in metastatic breast cancer patients, and we'll talk a
little bit more about that throughout the call.
Now, moving to the next slide, we've really focused attention as a company on six key growth
drivers we believe, which will enable us to deliver the growth profile we've outlined, both in the
next five years and also beyond. Notably, Cosentyx and Entresto continue their outstanding
performance towards their respective peak sales goal. We'll talk more about Zolgensma, which
continues its global expansion. Kisqali and Kesimpta, I've already mentioned. In Leqvio, we are
building a strong base, with which we believe we'll enable this medicine to reach a significant
sales potential over time. Taken together, these six brands now constitute 32% of Innovative
Medicines sales, and they're growing at 31%, I think, giving confidence in the growth outlook that
we've outlined.
Now, moving to Slide 8 and going through each of these key brands, starting with Cosentyx.
Cosentyx delivered 12% sales growth on the quarter. When you look at the outlook for Cosentyx,
we continue to guide to a double-digit growth, driven by steady volume growth in the key
geographies, US, Europe and China. We're very confident in the overall clinical profile, now that
we've treated over 700,000 patients across five of the indications indicated for Cosentyx, and
we continue to get important guideline recommendations, including the GRAPPA psoriatic arthritisguidelines, which highlight Cosentyx's unique benefit versus alternative therapies, including the IL-
12/23 and its ability to tackle axial manifestations of the disease.
Overall, we're confident in the $7 billion plus peak sales potential. This will be driven by global
expansion of the product, as well as lifecycle management, where we had some good progress
in the quarter, including approvals in pediatrics in Europe. We've submitted Hidradenitis
suppurativa in EU, and we expect to submit in the US in the second half. We have positive data on
an IV study, looking at Cosentyx's use in axial spondyloarthritis. And lastly, we do anticipate an IV
submission in the US as well in psoriatic arthritis. Four proof points of our ongoing efforts on
lifecycle management for Cosentyx.
Now, moving to slide -- the next slide, Slide 9, and when you look at Entresto, Entresto is
continuing its really dynamic growth globally and in the US. You can see, we delivered 33% growth
with Entresto. Our weekly NBRx continues its strong progression with continued strong growth.
We've now treated over 7 million patients globally and over 1 million patients in the US. Growing in
hospitals, cardiology, and primary care; so, really strong growth across geographies. And we're
confident in the future growth and delivering the $5 billion plus peak sales potential for this brand.
There is only one-third of the addressable population that's been treated, and we see a strong
profile consistently, regardless of the setting the medicine is used in. And lastly, with the approval
of Entresto in hypertension in Japan and china, where there is a high-end -- high unmet need, it
gives another opportunity for future growth.
Now, moving to Slide 10, with Zolgensma. Zolgensma is continuing to demonstrate the power of
a onetime gene therapy to treat really dramatic -- in a dramatic way to treat a terrible disease like
SMA. 26% growth, driven by global expansion; 2,300 patients now treated. We had recent
reimbursement decisions -- positive reimbursement decisions in Australia, Switzerland, and
Greece. And we recently received approval for our North Carolina new manufacturing facility,
which further expands the capacity of our gene therapy network and really brings online the
state-of-the-art facility, continuing our leadership in the gene -- the AAV gene therapy space.
Now, future growth drivers for Zolgensma are going to be the continued global expansion, 43
countries to date and growing. We also want to enable stronger newborn screening programs
outside of the United States. 97% of newborns are screened in the US, but only 30% in Europe,
and those numbers are similar and -- or lower in many other geographies. As we can get more
newborns screened, then we believe Zolgensma is the treatment of choice for these babies,
allows for normalization of their overall development. And we saw that in the Nature publication
that recently summarized the data from one of our earlier studies, with 14 out of 15 patients
walking alone and 11 of them in the normal development window, when treated early with
Zolgensma. I also want to note that both our STEER studies and STRENGTH are progressing well,
and we continue to outlook a submission in intrathecal for Zolgensma for two to 18-year olds in
2025.
Now, moving to the next slide, with Kisqali, we continue to deliver double-digit growth. You see
43% growth and we see this as a brand that, given its recent data releases, is really coming into a
strong profile and a strong growth profile. We're seeing increased traction, based on the clinical
data. I'll talk more about that a little bit later in the presentation. And we saw that at ASCO, once
again, we were able to highlight some of the datasets, particularly around OS in the first-line
setting, which demonstrates the strong profile of Kisqali. The NATALEE adjuvant study primary
analysis is expected in 2023 and continues to progress on track, and I'll talk more about that in
the pipeline section.Now, moving to Kesimpta on the next slide, Slide 12, the launch is continuing to -- and really
continuing on a strong trajectory. We see an acceleration on -- of the brand in the US, and we
continue to work towards providing the medicine globally in our key markets. We have US
demand of 18% growth quarter-over-quarter. We have 3,200 adopters -- physician adopters
since launch. You can see, the NBRx up now 42%. It's a really dynamic growth for this medicine.
And we're working to continue to strengthen the profile and differentiation. We have new
extension data, which demonstrated eight out of 10 patients treated continuously with Kesimpta
had no evidence of disease activity.
From a operational standpoint, we continue to work to drive fast initiation. Patients are now
getting on therapy within six days, 80% of patients achieving that goal. And 77% of patients
remain on therapy at 12 months, which I think, again, demonstrates the medicine's impact, as well
as its ease of use for patients. So, very excited about the outlook for Kesimpta.
Now, moving to the next slide, on Slide 13. With Leqvio, we are laying the foundation, as we've
outlined in 2022, for the ramp we expect over the coming years. And we continue to expect in
the remainder of 2022 for a steady ramp-up of Leqvio. But I think there is important proof points
that we are beginning to lay that groundwork successfully. First, with respect to access -- and as a
reminder, Leqvio is under the medical benefit, we have 65% of patients now covered with
aligned to our label or near our label, and that's within six months of launch. This is higher than
relevant competitor brands, both from PCSK monoclonal antibodies and/or other recently
launched anticholesterol therapeutics, and those brands have been in the market for many years.
So I think it demonstrates we've been able to drive fast access and the J-code now is in place as
of July 1. So I think from an access perspective, we're progressing well, progressing on or ahead
of our plan, and I think that sets us up well for the future.
Secondly, on affordability, we can now confirm that two-thirds of patients have zero co-pay for
Leqvio, including Medicare Part B patients with supplemental insurance. This again, we believe,
will enable a strong uptake and strong adherence to this medicine, so patients can get the
benefit that they need from lower cholesterol.
And lastly, we're making progress, working through logistics and administration for this medicine
in cardiologists' offices, as well as in relevant hospitals and medical centers. We've increased the
number of unique locations ordering Leqvio to over 700. We're expanding the depth now, with
55% of our customers already having placed repeat orders. And we're seeing growing usage
now with 2,100 HCPs and now, 3,900 patients in the service center.
So all of this taken together, I think, points to a strong future for the brand and we'll continue to
work through the second half of this year to build out this base to enable long-term growth.
Now, moving to the next slide, Slide 14 with Pluvicto, and moving to our two recently launched
medicines in oncology, Pluvicto and Scemblix. The Pluvicto is launched and really progressing in a
strong manner and it's either at or above our own expectations. We've seen our manufacturing
issues remediated and we've cleared our backlog. Commercial and clinical supply resumed in
June. We have a permanent A code that was granted in July and that'll be effective in October.
More -- over 50% of insured lives now are covered. We have over 100 RLT sites now operational,
40 sites have completed orders. So, a strong trajectory from the start and we're hoping that --
hoping to maintain that over the coming months.
We're preparing for further expansion with this medicine, given the clinical profile we've seen to
date. Both the Phase 3 studies are on track, both in the pre-taxane setting and the hormone-
sensitive setting, with a readout for the pre-taxane study still slated for the -- before the end ofthis year. The manufacturing scale-up is ongoing. We have a new facility in Indianapolis that we
plan to bring online in the second half of next year, and we have capacity expansions ongoing in
our Italy and New Jersey sites. And we're making significant investments to ensure logistics can
support access, as the patient population that can be reached were radioligand therapies
continue to expand across Pluvicto, Lutathera, and our pipeline.
So, moving to the next slide, Slide 15. Scemblix as well is off to a very strong US launch. And then
we achieved the, as I noted earlier, important regulatory milestones in the EU. $31 million of sales,
primarily driven in that third-line setting; 44% share in the third line, which I think is a good marker,
given how recently we launched the medicine; and 16% NBRx share, regardless of CML line of
treatment. In terms of future growth for Scemblix, it's going to be driven by the first-line study,
which is enrolling ahead of plan. Just as a reminder, (inaudible) investigator choice of TKI and has
a CHMP positive opinion in the ex-US markets, where we continue to work to get a global rollout
of the medicine.
So, moving to the next slide and turning to Sandoz. As you saw, Sandoz had a really solid quarter
in quarter two, and we've raised the full year guidance for Sandoz, and Harry will talk a little bit
more about that. When you look at the drivers for Sandoz sales performance, it's primarily in
Europe where we are a leader, the leading generics company with 4% growth, driven by both
launches, as well as recovery of the health care systems. We have double-digit growth in the rest
of world markets, Japan and other emerging markets. And we've seen a stabilization in the US
business, setting us up with future biosimilars launches and small molecules launches to drive
growth in the US over the years to come.
You can see, our retail sales growth in the quarter was 4%, biopharma was up 11%. So we've
raised the guidance, as mentioned. And when you look longer term, we believe this creates a
solid base of growth -- for growth, 2023 and beyond, and a lot of that will be driven by the
biosimilars portfolio. The portfolio of biosimilars in Sandoz targets $80 billion of originator sales;
over 15 assets in the portfolio; and some recent progress, including the acceptance of the
adalimumab high concentration formulation, as well as natalizumab in the EU. We're also
continuing to pursue small molecule opportunities to bolster the small molecule portfolio. Overall,
the strategic review for Sandoz is continuing to progress on track, and we expect an update at
the latest by the end of this year.
So, moving to the next slide, on Slide 17. Our broad pipeline of novel medicines progressed in
quarter two. But we've also worked to focus our efforts, as you saw in both our earnings release,
as well as with some of our pipeline decision, five core therapeutic areas, while being
opportunistic in other therapeutic areas. And we're trying to make consequential decisions to
really ensure we're focused in getting scale in those five core therapeutic areas.
On this slide, a few things to highlight. We had important designations and milestone. Scemblix,
as I mentioned. Pelacarsen completed enrollment for the Phase 3 HORIZON study, so on track on
its journey to become the first medicine to treat Lp(a)-driven cardiovascular outcomes. JDQ443,
our G12C inhibitor for solid tumors; the Phase 3 study in second/third-line non-small cell lung
cancer was initiated, and we continue to also progress combination studies for that medicine.
Cosentyx was filed -- had a filing for Hidradenitis suppurativa in Europe, and we continue to work
towards the US filing.
And then lastly, we continue to streamline the portfolio. We have a number of projects that we
made the decision to either partner or stop [ph]. And notably, we're exiting our efforts --
development efforts in COPD and general asthma with a decision to partner two assets in thatportfolio. And we'll continue to look to streamline the medicine portfolio in our pipeline, so that
we can focus on the medicines that matter most in our core therapeutic areas.
So, moving to Slide 18. I did want to say another word on Kisqali. Given the OS benefit now we've
seen across all three of -- all three of the Phase 4 trials in the metastatic setting we've conducted
to date, on the left-hand side you can see the results that we've generated in the first-line
metastatic setting. You can see, impressive risk reduction; importantly, median OS that has been
achieved consistently across these three studies, the longest median OS ever published and
we've seen that same OS benefit regardless of situation. We also maintained that benefit even
after prior CDK4/6 use. So, we think this dataset is part of the reason we're seeing the real
growth acceleration behind Kisqali.
Now, in the middle of frame, you see that -- the reason for this clinically, we believe, is that Kisqali
is unique in its ability to hit the CDK4 target and we hit it eight times harder than we hit CDK6,
and that's relevant, because we believe the CDK4 is the key driver of the benefits you're seeing
for this medicine, and you can see our relative performance versus -- in preclinical studies versus
our competition.
Now, when you look at the adjuvant study, it's fully enrolled, as we've already noted. We've
already cleared the first futility analysis. The primary analysis is planned at 500 iDFS events, and
we expect that by the end of 2023. The two interim analyses are to be conducted at 350 and
425 event. We have not yet reached the first of those interim analyses. We expect that in the
coming quarters. We do guide for this study to really complete at the end of next year, when we
reach the full number of events, but we'll, of course, keep the market updated as we progress
through these interim analyses.
Now, moving to the next slide, on Slide 19. Our -- we're on track largely against our key 2022
events. Just three things to note, three submission-enabling readouts coming up in the second
half of this year; CANOPY A, iptacopan in PNH, and as already mentioned, Pluvicto in the pre-
taxane setting. So, we'll look forward to the study readouts and updating all of you as we get that
data in-house.
So with that, I will hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Vas. Good morning, and good afternoon, everybody. I'm now going
to walk you through some of the financials for the second quarter and the first half. And as
always, my comments refer to growth rates in constant currencies, unless otherwise noted.
So on the next slide, yes, we show our quarter two and half one financial results summary. As you
can see, quarter two sales and core operating income, both grew 5% in constant currencies, with
sales benefiting from the continued strong performance of our key growth brands, and core
operating income growth, driven mainly by the higher sales. However, operating income and net
income declined significantly in the quarter. This was mainly due to prior-year divestment gains
from tail-end [ph] products and higher impairments and higher restructuring costs this quarter,
mainly for the transformation for growth program. Core EPS grew 1%. However, if you exclude the
impact of the prior-year Roche income, core EPS would have grown 10%.
Overall, we delivered solid sales and core operating and income growth for the quarter, resulting
also in a strong operational half one performance, with sales growing 5% and core operating
income, 7%. Core EPS in half one grew 11%, excluding the Roche stake impact.On the next slide, I would like to drill down a bit into the performance by division. So, for quarter
two, you can see that Innovative Medicines' topline grew 5% and the bottom line 6%, resulting in
an improvement in the core margin of 50 basis points to 37.2%. Sandoz net sales also grew 5%,
although core operating income decreased 4%, mainly due to increased M&S investments and
higher other expenses. This was reflected in the core margin, which decreased to 20.4%.
Overall, for the first half, we saw strong performance for Innovative Medicines and Sandoz.
Innovative Medicines sales growing 5% and core operating income, 6% in half one. Sandoz grew
6% on the topline and 10% on the bottom line in half one, driven by a very strong quarter one.
And as a reminder, as we discussed in April, Sandoz benefited from a return towards normal
business dynamics, compared to a lower prior-year base. Our half one core margin improved by
30 basis points for Innovative Medicines, 70 basis points for Sandoz, and 60 basis points for the
total Group.
Turning now to our guidance on Slide 23. So, within the divisions, we expect Innovative Medicines
sales growing mid-single digits and core operating income growing mid-to-high single digit ahead
of sales. The expected IM core margin increase will be driven by expected continued good
topline momentum and continuation of our productivity programs; of course, including the new
organizational structure giving us some benefits in the second half already.
For Sandoz, the performance year-to-date allows us to upgrade sales guidance to grow low-
single digit, which is a one-notch upgrade, and core operating income guidance is upgraded by
two notches to now be broadly in line with the prior year.
For the Group, we confirm our overall full year guidance. We continue to expect both top and
bottom line to grow mid-single digit in 2022. The key assumption for this guidance is that we see
a continuing return to normal global healthcare systems, including prescription dynamics and that
no Gilenya and no Sandostatin LAR generics would enter in US in 2022. As many of you know, in
June of this year, the US appeals court held the Gilenya US dosing regimen patent invalid. We
plan to petition the appeals court for further review to uphold validity of this patent. And as a
reminder, there is no generic competition in the US at this point in time for Gilenya, and in quarter
two, US sales were $332 million for Gilenya. It is worth noting that US Gilenya sales have been
steadily declining due to competitive pressures and, of course, our key focus and (inaudible)
being on Kesimpta.
Next slide, please. I would like to provide some further details on the expectations for the second
half dynamics on top and bottom line. We expect sales to continue to grow mid-single digit,
bringing us to our guidance for the full year. For half two core operating income, we expect to
grow slightly slower, compared to half one, at low-to-mid single digit. This is mainly due to the
higher prior-year base for Sandoz in half two. And as you know, half one core operating income
growth benefited partly from a very low prior-year base at Sandoz. We will, of course, continue to
monitor the impacts of inflation and utility cost, particularly on the Sandoz product portfolio, as
well as the situation around COVID-related lockdowns in China, given that we are seeing
improving signs as of June, which we will continue to monitor in half two.
On the next slide, I would like to provide an update on our new simplified organization model and
the financial impacts of the restructuring. As Vas discussed earlier, we have increased our
estimate of SG&A savings to approximately $1.5 billion. We anticipate the savings to be fully
embedded by 2024. This year, we also expect some savings, but the overall impact will be
minimal, as we will be offsetting higher energy cost and inflationary pressures.Part of the $1.5 billion savings, we expect to be reinvested into our pipeline and a significant part
that contributes to achieve our mid to long-term, low 40s Innovative Medicines core margin
guidance. With regards to the onetime restructuring costs, we could narrow this range a bit and
we estimate this now to be 1 time to 1.2 times of the annual structural savings of $1.5 billion.
On Slide 26, I want to provide an update on expected currency impacts if currencies stay at the
current levels. Obviously, currency impacts are significant this year, given the strength --
strengthening US dollar against many currencies. So, if currencies stay as they are now, for the full
year, we estimate the impact on topline to be negative 6 percent points to 7 percent points and
on the bottom line, negative 7 percent points to 8 percent points. And given it's volatile, we
wanted to give you also bit of an outlook for 2023. So, for the full year 2023, we would expect
sales to be impacted by negative 2% and core operating income, negative 2% to 3% in 2023
versus 2022. As a reminder, we update these currency impacts on our website monthly and I
think, especially in these times, quite important to watch that.
Finally, on page number 27 -- thank you. Finally, a reminder about our capital allocation priorities,
where we remain disciplined and shareholder focused, of course. We aim to balance investing in
the business with returning capital to shareholders via our dividend and share buybacks. In the
first half, our investment in the organic business was $4.5 billion in R&D and $0.5 billion in CapEx.
We also had bolt-on M&A, which was around $0.9 billion, mainly for the Gyroscope acquisition.
Alongside this, as you can see, in terms of returning capital to shareholders, we paid our annual
dividend of $7.5 billion earlier this year, and have $9.4 billion still to be executed of our ongoing
$15 billion share buyback program, of which we have completed $5.6 billion by the end of June.
And with that, I hand it back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So, if we move to the last slide, Slide 29, we continue to progress against our
top 2022 priorities, as we've outlined. Successful launches, particularly ensuring the foundation is
laid for Leqvio, but driving the dynamic performance of Kesimpta, Pluvicto, and Scemblix, which,
as you've seen, are continuing apace. Maintaining of the growth momentum across our six key in-
line growth drivers. Progressing the pipeline, where we have 20 plus assets, where we expect
significant sales potential with approval potential by 2026, and the pipeline is on track. We are
tracking well on our Sandoz review, and after the solid quarter from Sandoz in quarter two, I'm --
we'll keep you updated as we move towards a update before the end of 2022 at the latest.
And we remain disciplined in our business development, looking for important opportunities to
build out our pipeline, but remaining disciplined with how we allocate our capital. Continuing to
deliver a -- deliver our returns, and you've seen that with our productivity initiatives, our increase
to $1.5 billion of SG&A savings with our new organizational model. And we continue to reinforce
the foundations we believe that in the long run will drive Novartis' performance around culture,
data science, and as I noted earlier, ESG.
So with that, we look forward to taking your questions. If the questioners could please limit
themselves to one question, we will be able to get through, hopefully, the list and allow people
to ask multiple rounds over the course of the call. So operator, we can open the line for
questions.
Questions And Answers
OperatorThank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse from
Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. A question on Kisqali, please, Vas. And you have very clearly set out the
interim analysis timelines and the final analysis timeline. One question that we've received a lot in
recent weeks is how you would communicate when you go past an interim. Would you consider
that a material event, which you have to press release to the market? Obviously, if it's positive, it
would be positive and we'd see a release. But if you simply pass an interim and move forward,
would you see that as requiring a press release or would we simply learn that at the next quarter,
where you would update the timelines? Many thanks, indeed.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Matthew. So I think, as you outlined, clearly, if at any time in the study that we either
get a definitive positive result as determined by the DSMB or a negative result, we would update
the market. Otherwise, our plan would be at the quarterly calls to provide updates on where we
stand on the study. We don't believe passing an interim analysis warrants any sort of further
update.
Thank you very much, Matthew. Next question, operator?
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thanks. I'll jump back in the queue.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi. Just a high-level question on healthcare reform and just talk of reconciliation, pushing ahead,
seems like it's finally going to happen, to us, at least. Your thoughts on the likelihood of this
happening and what it could mean to industry financials into Novartis, specifically, over time and if
you have certain products that you think would be impacted the most?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Tim. I think as everyone is reading in the press, there is renewed momentum
behind a reconciliation package, which would consist of a drug pricing reform and supporting
ACA subsidies. Of course, our overall view remains that there are good and bad elements to the
package. Clearly, Part D reform is needed. Capping out of patient -- patient out of pockets will
be, I think, a positive step, enable patients to fill their prescriptions and also enable in our -- from
our sector, demand to be supported. But of course, there are onerous elements as well, which
we think go too far and don't support long-term innovation, will have detrimental effect to the
long-term outlook for the industry, particularly the negotiation elements.
Now, for Novartis, specifically, we view these as not significant impacts in the near to mid-term.
We've analyzed this quite in a detailed manner. I mean, I think as is well known, we are the
number one company -- pharmaceutical company in Europe and a leader in many emerging
markets. Our business in the US is one we plan to grow significantly over time. But our relativeexposure to the peer set in terms of both government programs and over US -- overall US sales
is at the low end of the peer set. So we would expect to have a far lower effect in our -- impact
on us, relative to our peers. And so, I would say in the near to mid-term, not a significant impact,
overall, net of the positive we get from the Part D reform and, of course, the impact on -- from
inflation caps, as well as negotiations. That's how we see it at the moment. And of course, we'll
continue to analyze as the final bill text is available.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Hello, Richard. Your line is open. Are you on mute? As there is no response from Richard, I will go
to the next --
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hello, sorry. Sorry, apologies. Completely my fault. Just on Kisqali, if you can hear me now, just
wanted to go back to the growth potential in the first-line opportunity and how much of the
Ibrance market you think you can take with the OS benefit. Obviously, we can see Verzenio
benefiting as well, but just your thoughts there? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. With Kisqali, we're starting to see a positive trend on NBRx in the first half
of the year versus the competition and in the metastatic setting, and that comes primarily from
Ibrance and I think that's reflective of the dataset that we have in OS, as I've outlined. It's
important to note as well, in many European and ex-US markets, we are either number one or
close to number one, depending on the market, and we can -- we believe drive additional
momentum in those ex-US markets as well.
So I think it's positive signs. We want to see that trend continue for, hopefully, a couple more
quarters, particularly given that now the dynamic market within breast cancer is starting to
recover. I would know that it's just recently, on our data, coming back to where it was pre-COVID,
which is -- again, is an opportunity for us to gain share, as there is an opportunity either in new
patients or switching patients on to Kisqali. So I think it's all positive directions and we'll see how
the trend goes in the coming months.
Thank you, Richard. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `Thank you for taking the question. Perhaps, I'll take one on Sandoz, please. As you called out,
biosimilars, clearly, a key to returning to reasonable level of growth in the mid term. You've
recently filed the biosimilar Humira, Hyrimoz, high dose in Europe. Could you just give us an
update on where you are with respect to the US for that opportunity, i.e., both as regard to high-
dose filing and potential interchangeability? And how significant an opportunity you think that may
be for business and, indeed, whether that would have any influence on your considerations on
strategic options? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Emmanuel. So, we're on track, overall, to be launching Humira, the adalimumab
biosimilar ad [ph] market formation in the US, and it's our intention to have the high concentration
formulation available. I think, as soon as we have a file accepted by FDA, we'd, of course, put out
a release and update the market. But I would say, overall, we're on track with respect to that.
I think, clearly, the number of entrants when the adalimumab market formation happens will mean
that it will be a highly competitive market. But nonetheless, given the size of the opportunity, it will
help meaningfully drive growth for the brand. I would also note that natalizumab, where we are
one of the early entrants, is a significant opportunity for Sandoz, and I think natalizumab, both in
the US and Europe, is one we're excited about as an opportunity to drive growth within the next
few years. And the other upcoming opportunity for us is denosumab, where, again, I think we
would be one of the earlier entrants amongst biosimilars players. But those would be the three
key upcoming biosimilar launches for Sandoz and particularly, in the US.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I'm just -- I've got one on NATALEE, actually. So, I think, the key
one, Vas, you said you were at 300 event. So I wonder if you could give us an update on how
many events you're at in the trial, and is that the sort of event rate as it sits? But you still have a
couple of months' delay before the DMC reports to you on what the outcome of the -- those
interims are. And in the event you were to get positive data, to what extent can you put subgroup
analysis, et cetera in the press release, so whether you've hit across all subgroups, high risk, low
risk, et cetera? Just what would be in the press release would just be quite interesting to know.
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Graham. On Kisqali, I, obviously, don't want to get into what exactly the number of
events. So I would say the event rate that we've seen -- and as we noted previously, we had a
slower event rate than we had originally projected. And that event rate has continued. So there's
change in the overall event rate. I would also note that you are correct that from the point of a
lock, it does take a few months to get the readout with the DMC, particularly because we work
with one of the large CROs in the US as part of the study. So that's, I think, important to note
from a timeline standpoint.In terms of what's in the release, I mean, I think we typically would only comment on the primary
endpoint. And in this case, that's iDFS across both the medium and high-risk patient populations.
We wouldn't, of course, get into subgroups. I would also note that the DMC's primary basis for
stopping the study would be iDFS. We would hopefully see an OS trend, but I think that's an
important note as well. I would expect -- as will be the case normally in a -- such an oncology
study, OS takes more time to mature and, of course, we'll have to see how it all unfolds over the
coming quarters.
Next question, operator? Thank you, Graham.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line Yukie Aizawa from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Hi. Can you hear me?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Hi. This is `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen. On remibrutinib, is there any sign of liver tox similar to Sanofi's
acalabrutinib, and is there any reason to believe that liver tox is a class effect? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Steve. We've been watching this space very closely. I mean, when you look overall
at BTK inhibitors in cancer, historically, liver has not been a signal, at least to our knowledge, that's
been a significant concern. And also, BTK is not differentially expressed within liver. So, in our
view, this is related to the drug itself, either metabolites or off-target toxicities in the liver. To
date, with remibrutinib, we haven't seen any liver signals. We've taken it forward into chronic
spontaneous urticaria as its first lead indication where there are two pivotal Phase 3s ongoing.
And then similarly, now, are progressing in our MS Studies and also evaluating, taking the
medicine into other areas of rheumatology, dermatology, et cetera. Our hope and expectation is
that the profile of remibrutinib continues to be clean, relative to the peers that -- particularly, with
respect to liver signals. We believe that in the MS market, but also in the dermatology markets,
it's going to be critical to have a medicine that has a safe profile with -- especially, with respect to
more complex side effects like liver.
So, that's where we stand, and we remain optimistic on that unique profile of remibrutinib, based
on its chemical design and the lack of any off-target toxicities seen to date.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?Operator
Thank you. Your next --
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Operator?
Operator
Oh, sorry, sir. Your next question comes from `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick one on Kesimpta. Could
you elaborate a bit on how do you see the dynamic on the ex-US sales? They are still quite small
for time being, but ramping up nicely. Could you give us what should boost these sales here?
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Florent. With respect to Kesimpta, already, we cover the US at length. I mean,
we're starting to now move through, as you know, the longer reimbursement processes that are
required in Europe, Canada, and other global markets. So we would expect to see in the second
half and then moving into next year, more significant sales contributions from our ex-US markets.
Of course, the big market's in Europe, but I was also recently in Canada, where there's a lot of
excitement as well about the medicine. And then to a lesser extent in Asia, Japan, et cetera,
where MS rates are lower, but the market sizes are significant.
I mean, I think it's important to note in those markets, a monthly subcu patient-administered drug
is very attractive because of those markets. There's not the same incentive structures around
infused medicines, as well as the ability to de-load the hospital system by having at-home
administration. So we feel optimistic about the opportunity now for Kesimpta as its next wave of
growth to really be about a global expansion of the medicine.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to ask a question on the development plans for
ligelizumab. I believe kind of the slides just mentioned food allergy, but on clinicaltrials.gov, the
PEARL-PROVOKE study in CINDU still looks to be recruiting. So just, any update on the otherA - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. With ligelizumab, as you know, we made the decision not to take it forward in CSU. But we
continued the development program in seafood allergy and we'll complete the program as well
in CINDU. And we continue to believe the medicine has potential in some of these indications
where IgE inhibition has demonstrated the ability to impact symptomatic disease, as well as the
disease progression.
So we still think the medicine has potential, particularly in food allergy, where, if we could find the
right setting for its use and get a relatively broad label from the regulators, it would have a
significant potential. So the development programs continue on track, and we would expect the
readouts, as we noted in our documentation.
Next question, operator?
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Emily.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thank you for taking my question. A quick two-part product question, if I may, please. Firstly, on
Zolgensma, as you talked about the strong ex-US growth, but actually the growth in the US was
pretty impressive this quarter. I just wonder if there's is any -- anything to add behind that. And
secondly, on Leqvio, if you could update us on the ex-US performance, particularly the UK?
Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. With respect to Zolgensma, we are pleased as well to see the performance in the US.
That's primarily driven by expansion in newborn screening, where, you'll remember when we
launched the medicine, we were down 60%, 70%. And now, we're moving into the mid-to-high
90s. And as we get that newborn screening rate up, it tends to be the case that patients who're
identified in newborn screening, ultimately, receive Zolgensma. And so, I think that will continue as
we move up the newborn screening. But then, of course, we would expect to be back to a steady
state. As with all gene therapies, eventually, you get to the steady state of the ability to identify
the diseases at birth in any so-called incident population.
When you look at the specifics on Leqvio, ex-US, I'd say, in the UK as well, we've been
systematically building up towards what we hope will be a trend break. I think the UK NHS had to,
of course, deal with COVID for much of the first part of this year. In the last few months, we've
now successfully upgraded and enabled NHS EHRs, identified patients who would be able to use
Leqvio. We have now, I think, over 70% of primary healthcare units with Leqvio available on their
formulary. We've launched a large-scale education campaign in the UK.So I would expect to see as well, hopefully, a trend break in Leqvio in the UK is in the first part of
next year, as we continue to build out foundation in the second half and as the NHS works
through the backlog it has from other diseases because of the COVID pandemic. Beyond that,
we see very strong uptake in Germany with Leqvio. On a per population basis, the uptake is very
good. We've assigned successfully larger-scale agreements with certain Middle East
governments to roll out Leqvio at scale in those markets.
And then we also continue to work to bring Leqvio forward in the large markets of Japan and also
are finalizing the plan for a filing in China as well. But all of that is going -- and of course, again, as
always with cardiovascular launches, it takes time. But on this one, I mean, absolutely, our goal is
to ramp this medicine faster than we were able to in Entresto and, obviously, with a runway that
goes to the late 2030s at the very least, a significant opportunity to make this a really, really
significant medicine.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thank you for taking my question. Focusing on radioligand therapies and the recent
manufacturing delays, can you now confirm that you outsource supply from running an inventory
building to both Lutathera and Pluvicto? I wonder, if you can also elaborate your plans for
expansion of RLT manufacturing, supply going forward and how you work around what you've
learned through those recent delays? And is there any risk the recent manufacturing cap could
result in a delay to the ongoing Phase 3 PSMA-4 study, which I think is due by year-end? Thank
you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Kerry. So, a couple of points on radioligand therapy manufacturing, which is a
challenge, but also, I think, points to why, if we can get it right, creates a long-term competitive
advantage. This is a medicine where you cannot build inventory. We make the medicine and
depending on whether it's Lutathera or Pluvicto, we have between three and five days to get it to
its relevant site. And so, because of that, you have to be world class with respect to the supply
chain, and it's not something easy, I think, for anyone to build from scratch. And what we've
learned is to increase capacity with redundant lines in different manufacturing sites to enable us
to ensure we have a steady supply if we were to have a disruption at any one of our sites, and
within those sites, to segregate the line so that the one line having issue doesn't affect any of the
other lines. And we've been able to do that now at the relevant sites, particularly in our Italian site
and our US site.
So with all of that being said, we've cleared the backlog. We are now shipping to order
successfully. We're also with large centers moving to a model where we provide Pluvicto dosesahead; even if they don't have patients ready yet, the supply is there. And of course, that enables
them to book with -- book additional patients with confidence.
And then to further expand the supply, we'll be bringing on a third large-scale manufacturing
facility in Indianapolis. That will actually have automated lines, moving away from more manual
lines, which further increase capacity. So -- and we would expect by mid to second half of next
year to have three separate US manufacturing facilities to support the US for both Lutathera and
Pluvicto, giving us the redundancy of large-scale capacity and, of course, the ability then to fulfill
what we hope, if the data supports, that a potential multi-billion dollar opportunity for Pluvicto
across lines of prostate cancer.
And I'd also take the opportunity to say that the feedback, both from the nuclear radiology
community, as well as urology community, which is an important customer base, of this medicine
has been very positive to date. With respect to the Phase 3 studies, we've been able to fully
reopen enrollment and we currently forecast no issues -- no change in timeline, either for the
pre-taxane study, which is slated to readout before the end of this year, or the hormone-sensitive
study, which is slated to readout in 2024. So both of those studies now are on track and, if
anything, are enrolling slightly ahead of schedule.
Next question? Thanks, Kerry. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Great. Just -- thanks. Just one quick question on iptacopan, Vas. Just wanted to get your thoughts
on relative positioning in PNH and aHUS versus the well-established C5 inhibitors. I just wanted to
get your sense of the ability to compete in the treatment-naive setting, as well as the sort of
patients that are struggling, as we look at this first data set. And then I think the treatment-naive
dataset will come in the first half of next year. Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Seamus. We've done a lot of work with the US team here and really -- to
understand the physician expectations and the dynamics. And overall, we believe that
hematologists would be highly interested in iptacopan, both in the first-line setting and for
patients who are not receiving -- achieving an adequate response to the anti-C5 monoclonal. I
think unlike some of the other areas, where part -- a Part B infused medicine can create a barrier,
this is a low enough volume situation where -- and we believe that patient ease of use to avoid
having to come in and out of the hospital, also very safe drug that can be used across lines of
therapy would be highly attractive for physicians.
So you're correct that the first dataset will be focused both on add-on therapy, as well as switch,
and then we'll have a second dataset, the PNH applied study, which would then be in the frontline
setting and those two datasets, together, will support the overall filing. So we remain optimistic
on that PNH and that, of course, would translate as well as into atypical hemolytic uremic
syndrome in that setting.
I'd also note that the opportunity for -- hopefully, everyone on the call is aware, for iptacopan, it's
not only in that hematology setting, but we also prepare in the renal setting, where this could bethe first medicine approved for C3G glomerulonepathies, as well as a opportunity to treat
patients on the severe end of the spectrum with IgA nephropathy. And then we continue to
expand across a range of other factor B-driven diseases. And the unique profile there is a twice-
a-day oral with a very safe safety profile, which I think, for these rare diseases, will hopefully make
a lot of sense.
Thanks, Seamus. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Question on your BeiGene collaboration, a couple of parts. So first, I'm curious
whether you could provide some color on the FDA's guidance to you not to file a monotherapy. I
assume that they had Western data. I think they do. So I'm just curious as to why. Is it because
they feel the market's well served, site inspections or some other?
And then second, you have an option on the BeiGene ticket. It sounds like Roche is now not going
to be presenting the interim data at ESMO. When do you have to exercise that option? And can
you give us any guidance on what you will do, given the available data?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. On the first question on monotherapy, I think the FDA's assessment of our
overall dataset was that it didn't adequately reflect the US population in terms of the number of
patients and the standard of care that was used in that BeiGene-driven first-line study.
So our focus right now is to finish the filing in the second-line small cell lung cancer -- sorry,
esophageal cancer. And then we have very good data in the first-line setting as well. As we
announced, that's been pushed back as we await the ability for FDA to inspect the facilities in
China. And then, hopefully, we'd be able to have both first and second line in esophageal. We'd
have then, hopefully, second line in non-small cell lung cancer, and we would expand from there. I
do think that the FDA is making it very clear now that they expect a -- any studies to be filed, that
they're global in nature, they have an appropriate amount of US patients, and that the standard
of care used reflects standard of care in the US.
With respect to the anti-TIGIT, we haven't changed. No change from our option agreement and
the option agreement is driven off the data from ociperlimab, the BeiGene anti-TIGIT molecule.
And so, that option would be based on when their dataset becomes available. And we will
continue to wait for that -- their data to mature, which we would expect, I think, if I'm not
mistaken, but we can verify in the second half of -- in the second half of -- first or second half of
next year.
Now, in terms of the Roche dataset, I mean, it doesn't change anything for us. We'll continue to
wait and watch as the field evolves, and then make an appropriate decision. I think it's important
that we -- everyone would like to understand where is the appropriate use of this medicine and in
which PD-1 subgroup all-comers and if there is a place, which place would it actually be. But for us,
there is no change of plan at this point in time.
Thank you, Andrew. Next question, operator?Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS `
Hello. Thank you. Could you help us understand who the typical US prescriber of Leqvio is, who is
already prescribing to multiple patients or who is already a repeat prescriber? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Laura. I spent -- it's a great question. I spent three days now in the field here in the
US, meeting clinicians, visiting hospital centers, visiting larger cardiology centers. I think right now,
where we see the strongest uptake are in group cardiology practices, where they already have
the ability to run by and bill. They make their own decisions on how they want to approach
treating for cholesterol and have, I think, the infrastructure largely set up and also the scale.
So, I'd say group cardiology, mid to large-size group cardiology practices have been really, I think,
a key area so far for the medicine, combined with, I would say, large volume cardiologists and
smaller practices who are leveraging alternative injection centers, where we continue to see solid
uptake. And that's a solid base for us to grow from. Now, the goal is to move into larger centers,
where you, of course, have to work through the pharmacy and the various P&T committees to
get everything set up there.
Now, the J-code being in place and the overall clinical experience increasing is helping. And then
also, moving towards smaller cardiology offices, where there is the need to set up buy and bill
capabilities, which, historically, have not been in place for those cardiology offices. What I would
say though is what I consistently hear, regardless, and I think our teams here on the ground, is a
lot of enthusiasm for a twice-a-year physician-administered medicine. They can modify the single
most important risk factor in cardiologists' mind for preventing repeat cardiology events --
cardiovascular events.
And I think seeing that and hearing that again and again gives us confidence, gives me
confidence that we will work through the logistical hurdles, which seems to be the primary topic,
and then get this medicine to wide-scale use. I think we often hear back from practices, especially
when they put the patient on the medicine and then at the next visit, they see a significant drop in
the LDL levels, that's a very winning proposition after a single dose. And then I think those
practices get really excited about getting more patients on therapy.
So again, laying all the foundation, but I think the -- all the right steps are being taken to get us to
where we need to be.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from GS. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thank you. Vas, a big picture kind of capital allocation question for you. If we look at Slide 27,
kind of first half -- obviously, it's only first half, which shows that you've kind of returnedsomewhere about $13 billion kind of to shareholders versus investing kind of about $6 billion in
businesses and your kind of organic and bolt-on transactions. As we look forward to the next kind
of 12 to 18 months, do you expect that balance to be somewhat similar to what we have seen in
the first half? Do you expect that to be more counterbalanced by greater investments, either
from an R&D or an M&A perspective for Novartis?
And then just kind of more specifically, you are telling us that you'd provide us an update on
Sandoz by the end of the year. What is that update expected to be? Are we going to get a
decision on what you would do? Is it going to be if you plan to separate it? Will we get details on
structuring of separation, et cetera? So just any color you might be able to provide on what that
detail or what update might involve? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Keyur. So I'll let Harry start and then I can add on. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you. Hi, Keyur. So on the capital allocation, of course, all things are a bit skewed by
our dividend being a annual dividend, right, the $7.5 billion. So if you want to do it mathematically,
you almost have to half that and put it on two sides, but it's the annual dividend. Overall, of
course, all of these elements -- R&D, we expect to continue to grow in line with sales at least.
And so, there will be continued growth of R&D investments and we don't expect margin leverage
from the R&D line as we go forward. More from the SG&A line, where also our transformation for
growth program is targeted at and where we have some gap to benchmarks and we can -- we
have found some structural opportunities, which is great.
And then in terms of how much goes to bolt-on M&A, that, obviously, depends on the
opportunities we find. And given, our very attractive net debt position and strong cash flows and
balance sheet, of course, we have quite significant bolt-on M&A firepower, if you will. And if we
don't find the right opportunities, of course, share buybacks will always continue to be part of the
mix.
In terms of Sandoz, I think you said it all. We made very good progress, in line with our plans on
the carve-out financials, on looking at all different options. So would be, of course, happy to give
a preliminary decision by end of year. But this is, of course, subject to Board approval and from
that -- and the progress overall on our whole planning. But end of year should be quite -- giving
you some good hints to in what direction it goes, given that we take appropriate time for all the
homework we are doing on the carve-out financial separation cost, separation costs, tax
situations and all of that. So it would be -- I think end of year, we -- later, we should be in a good
position to inform you about the next steps here. Vas?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
No, that's perfect. I think Harry said it all. Thank you, Keyur. Thanks, Harry. Next question,
operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Some of the work we've done suggests that people costs are
around 40% to 50% of the total cost for the industry. And so, my question is, how we should think
about the timing on the -- of the inflationary impact on salaries? Is it fair to assume that on the
whole, 2022 salaries and, therefore, your guidance, has factored in only last year's inflation and
that, really, we have to wait until next year's salary rounds before we start to see this year's
inflation baked into your cost base on the salary side? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Naresh. Harry, you want to take that?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. You're absolutely right, I mean, the current inflationary effects, mainly on energy, utilities,
freight costs and so on, those cost categories, as we speak. On wages and salaries, not much
yet, if anything. And so, that needs to be closely monitored and I would expect this to come more
in annual cycles. If there is something short term, it's probably depending on certain countries. Of
course, we always monitor the markets to be very competitive.
And we have, of course, quite a big, if you will, workforce in Switzerland where inflation and wage
increases are below, I would say, developed market average. So from that standpoint, our home
base gives us also here a bit of a competitive advantage. But we have to watch it, right? As you
say, the wage and salaries are a large portion of the P&L of any pharma company, given the
innovation-driven and people-intensive business. And we have to watch that, and we'll monitor
this, of course. I would say, we believe it is manageable for us, but we have to monitor how the
situation develops.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Thanks, Harry. Thanks, Naresh. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Sarita Kapila, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Sarita Kapila, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. Please, could you discuss where you stand on the
development of the diabetes and obesity franchise? So, you have the MBL949 in Phase 2. I don't
believe the mechanism has been disclosed, but it appears to be dosed every two weeks. And
you also have an existing cardiovascular and metabolic commercial platform. And there are a
number of assets focused on diabesity in Phase 1/2, which remain unpartnered. So it looks like,
from today's update, respiratory is less of a focus. But it's not necessarily clear where you stand
on diabesity and adding assets around Entresto, Leqvio, and TQJ. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks. Thanks for the question, and noted the Morgan Stanley report as well on obesity.
Yeah. I mean, I think we, of course, are observing the significant unmet need for better obesitymedicines. And because we do have a dedicated cardiovascular research unit in-house, led by
Sean Kaufman [ph], really, I think, global leader and the thinking on developing world-class
cardiometabolic drugs, we do have assets in our portfolio.
We have not disclosed NBL, but we are awaiting our Phase 2 data on weight loss with NBL. And if
that's positive, that would be an exciting opportunity to, hopefully, address with a unique
mechanism of action obesity on a large scale. And I think based on that readout, we would
determine if we advance other earlier-stage opportunities and combination partners we would
have for NBL, as well as potential external opportunities. So I think more to come. Certainly
observing the need for better obesity drugs and, hopefully, alternative mechanisms to those
already out there is something we're looking at, and we'll keep the market up to date as we learn
more.
Q - `Sarita Kapila, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi. Thanks so much for taking my question. A question on Cosentyx, please. You've talked a little
bit about the aim for this year. Wondering if you could just talk a little bit about next year. And in
particular, you've also talked a lot about Humira biosimilars in your plan there in the US. Can you
just talk a little bit about how you see coverage negotiations for Cosentyx next year? And
perhaps you could just talk about the impact of HS, which, I guess, is unlikely to be approved for
the negotiating cycle this time around. But IV, on the other hand, also available, and how you think
that fits into the potential patient access dynamics for Cosentyx going into next year? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Peter. I mean, I think right now, our assessment is that -- with the introduction of
adalimumab biosimilars that it's a manageable situation. I mean, we already have significant gross
to net on Cosentyx in some accounts. In other accounts, we have very strong overall positioning
and as a first-line therapy. And of course, we'll have to see as the upcoming year unfolds and
also, how some of the upcoming legislation that potentially might be passed by Congress will
impact the gross to net environment, given that there would be, if the law is passed as currently
designed, less ability to offset price -- increased rebates of price increases. I think there is a
possibility we see, a rethink on rebating at least on the industry side on how the whole structure
of the market works. It's all to be determined and to be seen.
I mean, I think for us, strategically on Cosentyx in the US, the goal is within rheumatology and
dermatology to grow with the market and you see healthy market growth in both of those
categories and as you point out, expand both in terms of indications, we would hope to get
Hidradenitis approved over the course of next year, which then means in 2024, it would be an
additional labeled indication for us and a unique labeled indication for Cosentyx, but also toaxial SpA, as well as psoriatic arthritis would enable providers to also provide Cosentyx in those
reimbursement settings. And hopefully, that also helps us manage the overall payer environment.
It's probably the best answer I can give at this point in time. But I think as we learn more in the
second half of the year, as we enter towards the January -- the negotiations in Q4, we'll keep you
posted.
Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Just a couple of follow-on housekeeping items, please. Harry, the quarter,
we saw a significantly lower finance charges and also significantly lower corporate costs than
consensus was anticipating. I know there was a hyperinflationary write-back in the finance charge.
Can you give us any help with what we should anticipate for both those lines for the full year?
And then if I can cheat and ask another question, Vas, you obviously de-emphasized COPD within
development. Does that mean that we can anticipate that you may consider divesting your legacy
respiratory assets, or that's something where you're going to maintain an existing commercial
franchise? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, Matthew. Welcome to the second round. So on the corporate cost, we guided so far to
$600 million to $650 million this year. Our new guidance now would be a notch down, $550
million to $600 million. Now, the biggest piece of that is actually currency, because, as you can
imagine, given our headquarters in Switzerland, most of our corporate costs are in Swiss francs.
And the Swiss franc also weakened versus the dollar. So the corporate dollars, if you will, will be a
little bit less and we will be a bit lower. If you take in constant currencies, which is probably hard
for you to model, on corporate costs, right, this year's quarter two costs were almost only $5
million lower than last year's quarter two costs. And of course, we do want to work on corporate
cost efficiencies. So I think that are just the corporate part.
In terms of the core cost on net financial results, we, of course, do have some income, right; we
have some hedging gains, which is the other side of the currency impact. So that should also be a
little bit lower. But of course, both of these is the corporate cost, a part of our core operating
income guidance in constant currencies and then a bit of gains on the net financial results also
versus prior year, but not so significant.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And then, Matthew, on the respiratory side of things, I think as you rightly point out,
we do have a business in inhaled respiratory LABA/LAMA/ICS outside of the US, primarily in
Europe and, to some extent, in emerging markets. And as well as we have the Xolair businessoutside DNS in severe asthma, as well as a co-promote in the US. All of those businesses remain
intact and of course, we will continue to continue to drive them.
We always do evaluate what is the right mix in the market. And I think with our recent
announcement -- the transformation announcement, where we moved to a single Innovative
Medicines unit in every country that we operate in, we are going through an exercise to ask what
is the right portfolio, not necessarily specific to respiratory, but what is the right portfolio of
medicines for us to really focus our resources on and where can we optimize or de-prioritize so
that we drive the most growth out of the business and really have the most impact that we can
from the portfolio. So as we get some better clarity on those decisions and if anything changes,
we'll, of course, let you know.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
And Vas, I don't know I don't know if my mic's on. I don't know whether a follow-up's appropriate.
But could we see those spun out with Sandoz, given that they'd fit with that kind of long lifecycle
ex-US footprint that Sandoz has?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So I'm getting in trouble with all of my IR colleagues for taking your follow-on, Matthew. But I will
answer it since we've known each other for so long. The -- right now, our intention is not to move
any of our Innovative Medicines business with any consideration with Sandoz. We'll keep Sandoz
as a pure-play, small molecule generics and biosimilars business.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thanks, and sorry for that.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Matthew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. So just firstly, with Kisqali, you previously
suggested that adjuvant is a $6 billion opportunity. But I'm just curious, how we should think about
it, because when you look at the epidemiology, it would suggest a much larger opportunity in
intermediate patient pool. So I'm just curious what assumptions you're making in terms of which
actually receive the drug in this population, because really, if we see a decent penetration, the
market potential should be significantly larger.
And then just to be cheeky, because we've done one round, just on sabatolimab, given the delay
in filing due to needing Phase 3 OS data and the high hopes that physicians seem to have for
VENCLEXTA and MDS from the VERONA trial, I'm just curious how you're thinking about the
potential for the product in MDS at this point. Does it now become somewhat of a lower priority,
or do you still believe that greater than $1 billion opportunity you discussed previously in MDS is
still feasible? Thank you.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Wimal. On Kisqali and the adjuvant setting, we do believe that with the possibility
of adding intermediate risk on top of high risk, that is a significant expansion in the patient
population, probably 3x to 4x what we see in the high-risk patient population. We previously
guided to, I think, $6 billion based on what we saw in kind of consensus outlooks and various
market projections. But I mean, I would agree that if we are successful in demonstrating a
meaningful benefit across that entire intermediate risk range, there could be a larger opportunity
for the medicine. And we're certainly doing that work now as we move towards the final readout
of the study. So I agree, it is a significant opportunity and to be a fundamental inflection point for
the company if Kisqali is successful and most importantly, for all of those women with breast
cancer who need better therapeutics so that their cancers don't recur. But I think it's a good push,
and we'll try to come back with better numbers.
On sabatolimab, I think the data that we have suggest that we need to wait for the OS data in
Phase 3. The opportunity for this medicine is both across AML and MDS. We do know that there is
a rapidly changing treatment landscape in MDS. Nonetheless, we think that if the medicine has a
unique mechanism of action with -- targeting TIM-3 and could be used in combination with other
agents and if the safety profile would reasonably hold up, we do think it has that $1 billion
potential in each of the indications. But I would know we need to wait now for the full Phase 3
studies, and it wouldn't be prudent to put too much more on to it until we see that data readout.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great. Thanks, Vas.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator? And we'll try to do as many as we can in the last five minutes.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my question. It's a follow-up on Leqvio in the US. Feedback we've
received recently from US physicians is that they're still seeing difficulties accessing injection
centers and the reimbursement is still challenging. So I just wondered whether that's just an issue
of experience and lack of infrastructure, or whether there are other barriers that payers are
putting into place in order to manage utilization, such as requirement for specific injection centers
or anything you haven't expected?
And then can I just ask a clarification, because I think I heard you say that the final NATALEE
readout was the end of next year. But I might have misheard that. So could I just clarify that
timeline? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. So first on -- on NATALEE, it would be in the second half of next year, which I
think is what we guided to previously, not end. I didn't mean to give a new timeline. Timeline is
exactly as we've said previously, so no change in timeline.On Leqvio, I think there is an element of experience and also understanding the Part B and the
payer dynamic. There is 30% to 40% of patients who are in Medicare Part B fee-for-service that
don't have any relevant blocks and can access the medicines. They're a set of patients where
there is a prior authorization and then there's a set of patients that do have a step edit. And I
think physicians are just getting experienced seeing how different patients actually have to move
through the system. I think as they get smarter about that and understand those dynamics, as
offices get better, and as we get better supporting offices, we should be able to overcome
those.
And as I noted, we have a very high percentage of patients covered now to the full Leqvio label.
To my knowledge, there's no restrictions on which alternative injection centers or other
administration centers that can be used that would really be impacting that perception. I think it's
just if you happen to put a certain -- a patient on a certain insurance as the first patient through
the system, you do have to work through the reimbursement hurdles and get that all set up in the
office; normal thing for a US healthcare launch in cardiovascular, things that we're well adept at
managing, having successfully launched Entresto, and things we're working very hard to resolve
as quickly as possible.
Next question, operator?
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Perfect. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for the follow-up. Just one on the LoEs that we should expect in '23. I think Promacta is
slated, but there are some formulation and use patents that might actually push that out. And
maybe similarly, just anything else like Lucentis that we should be thinking about? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. Yeah, on Promacta, we're continuing to work to really support all the full
range of patents we have on the medicine. And I think in appropriate time, if we're successful,
we'll provide an update on Promacta. But it is something we're very focused on.
And then on Lucentis, we do expect the biosimilar -- a few biosimilar entries in Europe. I think it's
important to note that with the broad scale availability of Avastin for now many, many years that
we believe the biosimilars market has, in effect, already happened in Europe. So we would
expect a moderate decline on the launch of the biosimilars, but maybe not what you would see
with other biologics when a -- when biosimilar entry occurs. So that's how we're forecasting
Lucentis now for the coming years.
And one last question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your final question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking the follow-up. So just one on Gilenya. So, obviously, you've had the
overturning the decision from the appeals court and you said you're going to petition. So just help
us understand time frame for the petition? Does that prevent a launch happening in the
intervening time frame, so your level of confidence that we won't see a launch this year, or is the
guidance just a guidance assumption but that could change depending on what happens at the
court?
And then just one last one. Kisqali growth was just well above prescription growth, although,
obviously, we are seeing resurgence there. Is that reflective of real volume growth, or could it be
just a sort of prescription retail versus other channels that we're seeing and actually, the reported
growth is much more in line with the real volume growth? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. On Gilenya, right now, no generics can enter the market. We are petitioning the court and
we would expect to get a response from the court in the coming months. If granted, then it
would be another set of months before the hearing and then the hearing would take another set
of months. As a reminder, we guided to generics entering in 2024. So really, what we look at here
is between now and that timeline when exactly the entry might happen. So we'll know more, I
think, as the court gives us feedback once we -- we have yet -- we are in the process of
submitting the petition. The petition would then need to be reviewed. We -- it will be rejected at
that point or the petition would be granted and then we would then move forward from there.
So that's kind of the scenarios right now on Gilenya. But to remind again, the long stop date was
anyway in '24. So from a mid-term growth standpoint, this is not having a significant bearing. Also
in Europe, where we were granted the patent by the European Patent Office, we expect that
patent to be issued later this year, and we'll continue to defend Gilenya across Europe. So a lot of
things, puts and takes, I think, on Gilenya at the moment.
And I think on your question on Kisqali, I don't know the answer. So we'll just have to follow up
with you. But we'll get back to you on that to make sure you're clear on the volume/price
dynamics. But I would say that what we see in our numbers is a strong growth in underlying
demand for Kisqali that we'd like to sustain.
So, thanks, everyone, for joining the call. Apologies, we didn't get to every single question. But I
really appreciate everyone taking the time, and we'll look forward to catching up soon. Bye-bye.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thanks for participating. You may now
disconnect.