Q2 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Second Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chris Stevo,
Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Chelsea. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Pfizer's second quarter earnings call.
We anticipate that this call will last 90 minutes. I'm joined today by Dr. `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman
and CEO; Dave Denton, our CFO; and `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and, President of Worldwide Research and
Development and Medical. Joining for the Q&A session, we will also have `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, Group
President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Business Innovation Officer;
`William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Development Officer; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel.
The materials for this call and other earnings-related materials are on the Investor Relations
section of pfizer.com. Please see our forward-looking statements disclaimer on Slide 3 and
additional information regarding these statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is
available in our earnings release and in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q under Risk Factors andForward-Looking Statements. Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial
risks and uncertainties, speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to
update or revise any of the statements. With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Hello, everyone. I am proud to say that Pfizer continued to deliver strong
operational performance in the second quarter and has increased its full-year 2022 operational
financial forecasts for revenue and adjusted diluted earnings per shares, all while operating in a
challenging foreign exchange environment.
Compared with the second quarter of 2021, global revenues were up 53% operationally to $27.7
billion and adjusted diluted EPS increased 100% operationally to $2.04. Both results exceeded
consensus analyst expectations, and the quarterly revenue figure represented the largest in
Pfizer's history. Key growth drivers for the quarter included Paxlovid, Comirnaty, Eliquis and
Vyndaqel/Vyndamax globally and our Prevnar family of products in the U.S.
Year to date, we have reached an estimated 845 million patients around the world with our
innovative medicines and vaccines, which represents a 77% increase from the prior-year period.
And we did all this while also taking steps to help address broader issues impacting global health,
including climate change, equitable access and the war in Ukraine.
So, where do we go from here? After two and half long years, like everyone else, we would hope
that this global health crisis would be over soon. But as much as hope is important, hope is not
science. And science is telling us that COVID-19 likely will remain a major global healthcare
concern for years to come. We believe that Pfizer is well positioned not only to maintain, but to
grow both, our commercial and scientific leadership in the battle against COVID-19.
In terms of our commercial leadership, we believe Pfizer's skills are even better suited for
operating in open markets than they are for government-contracting markets and will be even
more competitive when this transition happens. Recently, Angela announced a new commercial
structure that prepares us to provide even better support for the ongoing Comirnaty and
Paxlovid revenue streams.
In terms of our scientific leadership, we expect to further enhance our position through the
continued introduction of new innovations, including preparation for new variants of concern and
potentially improving the durability of protection. So far, we have been fortunate that most of the
variants have led to less severe illness, but there remains the possibility that a future variant could
emerge that combines Omicron's contagiousness with the original virus's severity. This is a
scenario no one wants to imagine, but one for which we need to be prepared and that's why we
are doing all these investments. That's why also it is critical that Pfizer continues to invest in the
research and development of COVID-19 vaccines and treatments.
With this context as a backdrop, let me provide an update on our current COVID-19 offerings and
then continue with other products. I will start with Comirnaty. To date, we have shipped more than
3.6 billion doses of our vaccine to 180 countries and territories around the world. Comirnaty
remains the most utilized COVID-19 vaccine in the markets in which we operate that report
market share data. Pfizer's cumulative share of doses administered in these markets have
increased from 52% on January of this year to 63% in July of this year. In developed markets, our
share has increased from 59% to 68% over that same time period.
Next, I would like to briefly touch on the topic of vaccine boosters for the fall. Outside the U.S.,
global regulators have issued guidance to advance an Omicron-adapted bivalent vaccinecandidate to help address the continued evolution of the virus. As such, Pfizer and BioNTech have
submitted data to the European Medicines Agency on the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity
of the companies' bivalent Omicron BA.1-adapted vaccine candidate. We also continue to work
with health authorities around the globe on regulatory submissions.
The U.S. Food & Drug Administration recently asked biopharmaceutical companies, including
Pfizer, to develop a modified vaccine containing an Omicron BA.4/BA.5 component and we begin
clinical trials with these vaccine candidates. Pfizer is currently proceeding with development of a
COVID-19 bivalent Omicron BA.4/BA.5 booster vaccine candidate and is targeting this fall for
rollout in the U.S., subject, of course, to regulatory authorization. Pfizer is well positioned to satisfy
its current contractual obligations and potential demand within its production capacity through the
end of the year. Because of our robust manufacturing capabilities, we are planning to deliver both
variant vaccines in the fall, pending regulatory approvals.
Turning to Paxlovid, we continue to be very pleased with how things are progressing in the U.S. as
we are seeing several initiatives supporting increased access for eligible patients. First, the
number of facilities with Paxlovid supply have continued to increase with more than 41,000 sites
live as of July 15, an increase of more than 7,000 sites since early May. We are pleased with the
FDA's July 6th revision of the Emergency Use Authorization for Paxlovid that authorized state-
licensed pharmacists to prescribe the treatment under certain conditions, thereby expanding
access for patients.
As you can see on this slide, we have seen a nearly five-fold increase in Paxlovid utilization since
the first quarter. We also continue to retain greater than 90% market share of oral COVID-19
treatments in the U.S. and are taking a state-by-state approach to engaging key government
officials to discuss their access strategies. We're also continuing to work with states to educate
consumers, healthcare providers and pharmacists about the importance of treating all
appropriate high-risk patients rather than limiting treatment to the severely immunocompromised
and unvaccinated.
In spite of the strong growth we have seen in Paxlovid uptake in the U.S. due to our government's
efforts, we estimate that a significant amount of eligible patients outside the U.S. are not yet
being treated with the drug and may not know they are at high risk of progressing to severe
disease. So, we believe there remains substantial opportunity to grow Paxlovid utilization. For
international developed markets, we are seeing significant increases in usage across many
markets reflecting the recent wave of BA.4/BA.5 and resulting increases in hospitalizations, ICU
admissions and deaths. For example, over the month from June 24 to July 24, average daily
deaths in Europe almost doubled from a low of 0.6 per 1 million people to 1.15 per 1 million. In
Japan, they almost tripled from 0.12 per 1 million people to 0.34 per 1 million people. And in
Australia, they increased from 1.78 per 1 million people to 2.59 per 1 million.
While we have less precise numbers on market shares outside the U.S., our internal estimates
indicate that we saw an estimated 116% increase in usage between June 24 and July 15 across
international developed markets where we have supply agreements. So, we believe there is a
significant opportunity to continue the growth outside the U.S. as physicians become more
knowledgeable about Paxlovid and treat appropriate patients.
While COVID-19 remains top-of-mind for many people, we are seeing encouraging performances
with some of our other innovative products, as well, and I wanted to take a moment to highlight
two of them. We are very pleased with the success of our U.S. launch of Prevnar 20 for adults.
Second-quarter U.S. revenues for our Prevnar family of vaccines for adults were up 337%
operationally, compared with the prior-year quarter, to $431 million with Prevnar 20 representingmore than three quarters of the total adult revenue. The great majority of U.S. healthcare
networks, IDNs and retailers who have made formulary decisions have chosen Prevnar 20 alone
as their higher valency pneumococcal vaccine of choice to help protect adults. This has resulted in
Prevnar 20 having a 97% market share.
This is also the first time that there has been a routine recommendation for Prevnar for people in
the 19-64 age group with underlying medical conditions. This group has an increased risk for
contracting pneumococcal pneumonia and, unfortunately, has historically been the hardest to
activate. Lastly, we believe the simplicity of Prevnar 20 being the only vaccine that can help
protect patients with one dose in one visit is preferable to competitors' offerings.
Quarterly revenues for Ibrance grew 1% in the U.S. compared with the same quarter last year,
despite a continued increase in the proportion of patients accessing Ibrance through assistance
program. This marked the first quarterly revenue uptick in the U.S. since the fourth quarter of
2020, which is an encouraging sign. Total volume in the U.S. increased 3% compared with the
year-ago quarter.
Before I turn it over to Mikael, I want to touch on some actions we have taken recently to further
demonstrate our commitment to Environmental, Social and Governance, ESG) principles. We
recently announced an Accord for a Healthier World. Under this Accord, we are offering all of our
patented, high-quality products that are available in the U.S. or the EU on a not-for-profit basis for
1.2 billion people living in 45 lower-income countries. This includes all future Pfizer products as
well.
I am thrilled to say that the first product under this Accord has arrived in Rwanda, with more on
the way. Pfizer's experts also held a session for 100 Rwandan medical professionals to discuss
efficacy, safety and dosing of this medicine. This is just the first step of Accord implementation,
but an important one that will impact many lives.
We also recently announced our commitment to achieve the Net-Zero Standard across our value
chain by year 2040. This is 10 years ahead of a new voluntary external standard. This includes
aiming to reduce our company emissions by 95% and value chain emissions by 90% with the next
roughly 18 years.
In response to the war in Ukraine, we are donating the equivalent of all profits from sales in
Russia to causes that provide direct humanitarian support to the people of Ukraine. Our first
down payment of $5 million is going to eight global and local NGOs to support humanitarian relief
and response efforts and we will continue to channel these profits to the Ukrainian people until
peace is achieved.
I am also very proud to share with you that in a recently published report from MSCI, Pfizer's
annual ESG rating increased three notches compared with June 2021, going from B to A. This is
just the latest external recognition we have received for our commitment to sustainable and
ethical business practices. I couldn't be prouder of our colleagues' commitment to good
governance practices, quality and integrity.
With that, I will turn it over to Mikael to update you on our R&D efforts. After Mikael, Dave will
provide financial details on the second quarter and our outlook for the remainder of 2022.
`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you, Albert. I'd like to start by highlighting two recent leadership appointments. I've
appointed Annaliesa Anderson to lead Vaccine Research & Development, succeeding KathrinJansen, who previously announced her retirement. With more than two decades of biopharm
R&D experience, Liesa most recently served as CSO for Bacterial Research and Hospital. Over
the last two years, she has led the team of infectious disease biologists that designed and
delivered PAXLOVID to an emergency use authorization. Under her leadership, we also advanced
several bacterial vaccine programs into clinical development and approval.
I've also named Charlotte Allerton, CSO for Anti-Infectives, a new research unit. Creating this new
research unit allows us to expand our focus beyond medicines that typically are used in hospitals.
Charlotte is an esteemed scientist who will broaden our anti-viral strategies with additional efforts
in anti-bacterial and anti-fungal science and medicines. Charlotte has been our Head of Medicine
Design, most notably co-leading the discovery and development of PAXLOVID, and will continue
in that role, as well.
I have had the privilege to work closely with Liesa and Charlotte for more than 10 years and have
been continually impressed by them as world class scientists in their respective fields of
expertise. Both have demonstrated good product hunting skills and a sound business mindset.
I'm looking forward to working with them in their new roles. Let's begin with COVID-19. The
pandemic continues to evolve into a disease which is causing significant disease burden, including
high rates of acute disease, medical care utilization, hospitalization and deaths, during the entire
year. A growing number of patients affected by acute COVID infections are developing chronic
disease and suffering from long COVID symptoms affecting multiple organs such as the lungs,
heart, kidney, brain and the vascular system.
We have seen major waves of variants of concern emerge quickly, become dominant, then be
superseded by the next variant.
Omicron and its sublineages are the most antigenically distant compared to prior variants of
concern, more transmissible and show evidence of partial immune escape from existing vaccines.
As the composition of SARs-CoV-2 changes, it is essential we advance new approaches to
extend the level of protection that COMIRNATY originally conveyed. In a clinical trial, we evaluated
the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of mono- and bivalent Omicron BA.1-modified vaccines
administered as a fourth dose in more than 1,900 participants over age 55. We are also
evaluating different doses of mono- and bivalent BA.1 in participants 18-55 years of age. While we
saw promising responses to both mono- and bivalent versions in the over-55 population, we
moved forward with bivalent following guidance from regulators.
The BA.1 vaccine candidate elicited a superior immune response for BA.1 compared to the current
version of the vaccine, a seroresponse rate which exceeded noninferiority and neutralization
activity which increased substantially. The BA.1 vaccine neutralized wild type and Delta similarly to
the current version of the vaccine, suggesting that Omicron-modified version maintained
responses for the ancestral strain and other viral variants.
Based on these data and following guidance from regulators, we have completed regulatory
submissions in Europe, UK and Canada for the 30-microgram bivalent vaccine in individuals 12 and
older and plan submissions in other markets soon. The data also showed this vaccine candidate
neutralized Omicron BA.4 and BA.5, though to a lesser extent than BA.1. This suggested a need
to develop both a BA.1-modified vaccine and a BA.4/5-modified vaccine.
We studied BA.4/5 monovalent and bivalent booster candidates in mice and found a substantial
increase in neutralization responses to all Omicron variants of concern. Neutralizing titers against
BA.4/5 increased 11-fold for the monovalent and 4.8-fold for the bivalent compared tomonovalent BA.1 vaccine. These data were shared at the recent FDA Advisory Committee
meeting as a potential surrogate to help expedite development of a BA.4/5 vaccine.
We plan to submit the BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine candidate for Emergency Use Authorization in the
U.S. in preparation for the fall booster campaign. To adapt more rapidly, we have agreed with
FDA that this submission will be based on safety and immunogenicity data generated in adults
with an Omicron-modified BA.1 vaccine and supported by BA.4/5 bivalent-specific preclinical data
and BA.4/5 bivalent Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls data.
This strategy is bolstered by previous experience showing that overall responses have been
similar between human clinical and mouse data, our clinical experience with Beta- and Omicron-
modified vaccine candidates and by leveraging our mRNA platform and manufacturing
experience for the current vaccine. To support future potential U.S. licensure and global
registrations, we plan to initiate a clinical study to evaluate the BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. The clinical
study design is under discussion with the FDA.
We aspire to continue leading with science and working to identify vaccines that will help provide
strong and durable protection as new SARS-CoV-2 variants emerge. We aim to deliver a next-
generation COVID-19 vaccine that can provide durable antibody and T-cell immune protection
against severe disease and hospitalization for at least one year.
We plan to take a stepwise approach by designing and testing different candidates that engage
multiple arms of the immune system including antibodies and T cells. First, yesterday we
announced the start of a Phase 2 study evaluating a bivalent modRNA vaccine candidate which
consists of RNA encoding novel enhanced prefusion spike proteins for the SARS-CoV-2 ancestral
strain and an Omicron variant. The enhanced spike protein encoded from the mRNA has been
modified with the aim of increasing the magnitude and breadth of antibody neutralization
response that could better protect against COVID-19. We project delivering key clinical data this
fall.
Second, we plan to initiate a proof-of-concept study with a potential pan-SARS-CoV-2 vaccine
candidate by the end of the year. This combines the super-stabilized spike sequences with a T-
cell enhancing construct, aiming to extend durability of protection against severe disease and
new emerging SARs-CoV-2 viral variants. Now, turning to PAXLOVID. Last month, we submitted a
New Drug Application to U.S. FDA, seeking approval for the treatment of COVID-19 in both
vaccinated and unvaccinated adults and pediatric patients, 12 years and over, weighing at least 40
kilograms and at high risk for progression to severe illness. We anticipate a PDUFA date in the
first quarter of 2023. We plan to generate further data in those who are immunocompromised,
hospitalized with severe COVID-19 and at increased risk for poor outcomes due to the disease or
who are pregnant.
We also are considering multiple collaborative studies to evaluate potential treatment for long
COVID. Finally, we are working with the FDA to finalize a protocol to study patients who may be in
need of retreatment. According to CDC, a brief return of symptoms may be part of the natural
history of SARS-CoV-2 infection in some people. We believe the occurrence of COVID-19
rebound is uncommon and not uniquely associated with any specific treatment. At this time,
cases are being reported at a rate consistent with the EPIC-HR trial.
Turning now to flu. We know that currently available vaccines are not optimal in addressing the
unmet need as each year many people are infected, hospitalized and die, resulting in
tremendous public health and economic impact. In part, this is because the flu vaccinedevelopment cycle is inefficient. And even when current seasonal vaccine strains match circulating
strains well, they typically confer only 40% to 60% protection.
Potential advantages of the mRNA platform include shortened timelines to enable a quicker
response each season, improved strain matching, faster and more reliable manufacturing and
broader immune responses from both antibodies and T cells, the latter needed particularly in
older adults.
Based on our experience with COVID-19, T-cell responses appear to be critical for protection
against severe disease and hospitalization in infectious viral disease. Here we show Phase 2 T-cell
data for our quadrivalent modRNA flu vaccine candidates in subjects 65 and older. We believe this
is the first evidence of a flu vaccine candidate inducing substantial responses for both CD4 and
CD8 T-cells.
On the left, at day seven the CD4 T-cell response was more than two-fold for all four flu strains
for our vaccine compared to a current high dose vaccine now recommended in the U.S. for adults
65 and older. Over half of the cohort receiving our vaccine candidate had a more than two-fold
response. On the right, at day seven the CD8 T-cell response and responder rates were greater
for all four strains for our vaccine candidate versus the comparator.
Our belief is that these encouraging T cell responses, combined with higher seroconversion rates
for -- through A strains, which are the most predominant circulating strains and have pandemic
potential, may translate into improved efficacy over current seasonal flu vaccines, particularly in
those 65 and older. Based on these data, we plan to initiate a Phase 3 efficacy study this year.
We're excited to share that new data on our oral GLP-1 receptor agonists, two abstracts on twice-
daily danuglipron and one on our once-daily candidate known as 1532, have been accepted for
the European Association for the Study of Diabetes conference in September. These
investigational medicines were designed in-house by Pfizer's innovative chemistry and discovery
teams.
In a Phase 1 study in adults with type 2 diabetes, after only six weeks of treatment, 1532 robustly
reduced Mean Daily Glucose to almost near-normal levels. Participants also experienced weight
loss of up to 5 kilograms, compared with 2 kilograms for placebo. We believe this to be a
potentially best-in-class profile across both injectables and orals. Similar changes in body weight
were observed in participants with non-diabetic obesity. 1532 is characterized by favorable once-
daily pharmacokinetics, low risk for drug-drug interactions, robust efficacy across multiple
metabolic endpoints, and GLP-1 receptor agonist class-like tolerability which overall encouraged
us to plan for a Phase 2 study to pick the winning candidate prior to a potential Phase 3 study
start. These development programs may lead to potential indications in type 2 diabetes, obesity,
NASH and cardiovascular risk reduction in type 2 diabetes and obesity patients.
Over the 12 past months, we have built a strong Inflammation & Immunology portfolio with
diverse products to help address multiple drivers of disease and unmet need. CIBINQO was
approved for atopic dermatitis in adults and last week received priority review designation in the
U.S. for adolescents 12 to 18 years. We are nearing a regulatory submission for etrasimod in
ulcerative colitis. We have submitted regulatory applications in the U.S., Europe and UK for
ritlecitinib for alopecia areata and are awaiting acceptances. We also plan to start a Phase 3 study
of ritlecitinib in vitiligo this year.
We are pleased to now share promising new updated data from our anti-Interferon beta
monoclonal antibody in specialized rheumatology. Patients with dermatomyositis show elevatedAs we continue our development of this candidate, a potential breakthrough therapy for hard-to-
treat dermatomyositis which attacks the skin and muscles, we believe it may have the ability to
address a broader set of inflammatory autoimmune disease, possibly including polymyositis and
lupus.
On our third quarter 2021 call, I shared data from our ongoing Phase 2 dermatomyositis study,
focused on skin inflammation and showing significant reduction in disease activity when
compared with placebo in just three months of treatment. Now, both doses met the primary
efficacy endpoint in skin predominant disease. The disease also manifests with progressively
debilitating muscle weakness and fatigue. Early data suggest that in a small cohort of patients
with muscle predominant disease, our candidate resulted in numerically better efficacy scores
across all key muscle endpoints, including patient-reported outcomes, after three weeks. We plan
to submit the data for presentation once the study completes.
Now, a promising update on elranatamab, our investigational B-cell maturation antigen CD3-
targeted bispecific antibody. At ASCO, we presented data from a Phase 1 trial in people with
relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma whose disease is refractory to at least one agent in each
of the three major classes of medications approved for the disease. We saw a confirmed overall
response rate of 64% and 35% of patients achieved stringent Complete Response or Complete
Response. More than half who received prior BCMA-directed therapy, such as an antibody-drug
conjugate or chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy, achieved a response. Responders'
probability of being event free at nine months was 77%.
Elranatamab elicited durable Minimal Residual Disease or MRD negativity, meaning no disease
was detected after treatment in all evaluable patients who experienced a Complete Response or
stringent Complete Response. Molecular responses were durable as well, with 60% -- 62% of
those complete responders documented to have MRD negativity at more than six months,
including two patients who were MRD negative beyond 18 months.
MagnetisMM-1 results, and emerging data from MagnetisMM-3, which is studying triple-class
refractory multiple myeloma, supports further development across a broader program with
potential registration-enabling studies MagnetisMM-5 in patients with double-class exposed
multiple myeloma and MagnetisMM-7 in newly diagnosed post-transplant patients with multiple
myeloma. There is potential for deep and durable results that can be broadly accessible to
patients due to off-the-shelf, subcutaneous, and convenient dosing. The efficacy and safety
profile we have seen to date in a challenging patient population supports advancement into
earlier lines of treatment. Finally, here is a snapshot of select milestones for this year, showing
healthy progress in the pipeline. It was an important quarter for COVID execution and we look
forward to sharing complete readouts from anti-Interferon Beta and the modFlu candidate
before the end of the year. Thank you for your attention. Let me turn it over to Dave.
`David Denton, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Mikael and good morning, everyone. As this is my first call as CFO, I thought I would
set the stage for the next chapter of Pfizer, and our relentless focus on creating long term
shareholder value. Over the past few years, Pfizer's cash generation capabilities have expanded
significantly and the efficient deployment of this capital is more critical than ever. It's clear to me
the company is uniquely positioned for both growth and at the same time enhancing financial
returns.
And as we look to the future of the company, we are focused on three primary areas to drive
significant shareholder value. First and foremost is our continued emphasis and investment inmedicines, deploying more than $50 billion in this area in the past three years alone. Our second
priority is maintaining and growing Pfizer's dividend, paying out more than $25 billion to
shareholders over this period. We recognize that our dividend represents an important
component of returns for our investors.
And finally, from time to time, we will return capital to shareholders through value-enhancing
share repurchases. Over the past three years, the company has allocated nearly $9 billion in this
area. Clearly, maximizing shareholder value will be a major focus and I believe that all three areas
will contribute to our success. More recently, in year to date, we deployed more than $12 billion
into innovation, paid dividends of $4.5 billion, and repurchased $2 billion worth of our shares. This
demonstrates an ongoing commitment to our robust capital deployment framework.
With that, now let me briefly review our financial results for the quarter. I will confine my remarks
largely to adjusted and operational growth figures. Turning to the income statement. Revenues
increased 53% operationally in the second quarter of 2022. These results were driven by
momentum in Paxlovid sales, strong sales of the COVID-19 vaccine, and underlying strength from
a number of our key products.
Excluding Paxlovid and Comirnaty, Biopharma product revenues grew operationally by 2%
compared to the prior year. In-line products, Xeljanz and Chantix, were impacted by labelling
changes and a global pause in shipments, respectively, while Ibrance continued to transition into a
new COVID normal market environment. PC1, our contract manufacturing business, grew 89%
operationally in the second quarter of 2021 and therefore faced a tough comparison versus last
year, with PC1 declining by 25% operationally. And now bringing that all together, Pfizer's non-
COVID-related revenues grew by 1% operationally in the second quarter.
Adjusted cost of sales dollars grew more slowly than revenues, resulting in gross margin rate
expansion of 570 basis points versus the second quarter of LY. This improvement in gross margin
is largely due to the impact of higher-margin Paxlovid sales, partially offset by higher COVID-19
vaccine sales, and the impact of a $450 million write-off of COVID-related inventory that had
expired or is expected to expire. Given the unpredictable nature of the virus, we chose to
manufacture and hold excess stock to ensure we could meet any global health demand for
products if an extreme need were to arise.
Adjusted SI&A expenses in the second quarter grew by 7% operationally. The increase was
primarily driven by spending for Paxlovid and Comirnaty, and higher healthcare reform fees. The
27% operational increase in adjusted R&D expense in Q2 was primarily driven by investments in
multiple late-stage clinical programs, including programs to both prevent and treat COVID-19 and
costs to develop recently-acquired programs.
The effective tax rate on adjusted income in the quarter of 15.4% declined by 170 bps versus last
year driven by a favorable jurisdictional mix of earnings. And as a result, reported diluted earnings
per share of $1.73 grew by 77%, while adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.04 grew 92% and
on operational basis adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 100% in the quarter. Foreign
exchange movements continue to dampen our results, negatively impacting revenues and
adjusted earnings per share by 7% and $0.08 per share.
So with that, let's move to our 2022 guidance. Given our strong second quarter performance and
our improving outlook for the year, we are increasing our operational expectations for both
revenues and adjusted earnings per share. For the full year, we are increasing our operational
revenue expectations by $2 billion and operational adjusted diluted earnings per share
expectations by $0.24.Unfortunately, given additional U.S. dollar strengthening since we last updated guidance in early
May, foreign exchange negatively impacts revenues by approximately $2 billion, leaving our
reported revenue guidance range unchanged at $98 billion to $102 billion. This represents an
operational growth rate of 29% at the mid-point compared to 2021, a 200 basis point
improvement over prior expectations. The improvement in our operational adjusted diluted
earnings per share outlook of $0.24 is also negatively impacted by foreign exchange movements,
compressing EPS by $0.19. The net impact of these cross currents allows the company to raise the
low-end of its adjusted earnings per share outlook by $0.05 to $6.30 to $6.45 of share. This
represents 65% operational growth at the midpoint compared to 2021.
Regarding our COVID-19-related revenues, we continue to expect the vaccine revenue for the
year to be approximately $32 billion, unchanged compared to the prior guidance provided on
May 3rd despite the impact of approximately $1 billion of incremental negative foreign exchange.
For Paxlovid, we expect sales of approximately $22 billion, keeping the guidance unchanged again
despite an incremental $300 million headwind due to FX. Our non-COVID-related revenues are
absorbing approximately $700 million of impact from negative foreign exchange.
Now given the seasonality that we expect, I would also like to give you some color on the
expected cadence of these COVID-related revenues across the second half. Based on current
guidance for Comirnaty, we expect approximately 25% of second half sales in Q3 and 75% of
sales in Q4, driven by expected deliveries of Omicron-adapted vaccines in Q4, again subject to
regulatory approval. Conversely for Paxlovid, we expect approximately 60% of sales in Q3 and
40% in Q4.
So, with that, let me give you some detail on changes in our cost and expense guidance. We are
decreasing our expected adjusted SI&A spend by $300 million across the range to $12.2 billion to
$13.2 billion. Additionally, we are also increasing our guidance for adjusted R&D expense by $500
million at the low-end only, with the new range of $11.5 billion to $12 billion, reflecting incremental
investments in multiple programs, including mRNA vaccine programs outside of COVID-19 and
other programs. We are also slightly reducing our expected effective tax rate on adjusted income
by 50 basis points to approximately 15.5%. 2022 guidance once again assumes no incremental
share repurchases beyond the $2 billion of share repurchases that we completed in March of
2022.
So in closing, it's an exciting time in the history of Pfizer. We believe that our strong financial
performance in the quarter and our improving operational outlook for the year sets the stage for
long-term shareholder value creation. So with that, let me now turn it over to Chris to start the
Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Dave. At this time, let's start the Q&A session. Please limit yourself to one question per
caller. And if you have additional questions, we ask you to please get back in the queue and we
will address as many questions as we have time to do so. And if you have any remaining
questions afterwards, the R&D team will be available to answer those questions for you as well.
Chelsea, if you could queue up the callers, please?
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question come from the line of `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays.Q - `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Good morning. Appreciate all the disclosures there at the end, but I wanted to follow up
on the Comirnaty guide again. Obviously you had some incremental contracts that got signed
since the last time you gave guidance, you highlighted sort of the FX headwind. So I guess trying
to tease out exactly kind of explicitly kind of what you're assuming around potentially, I guess, EU
doses getting pushed into 2023 and just some additional color there if you can please? Thank
you.
A - `David Denton, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Carter, this is Dave. Thank you for the question. Let me walk you the guidance for this year from a
vaccine perspective. As you well know, we had a guidance of 32 billion to begin with as we enter
Q1 -- come out of Q1. There's really three moving parts as I think about our guidance for the year.
One is we do have an incremental contract from the USG for 105 million doses this year, which is
an uptick to that guidance. Secondly, we're experiencing headwinds from an FX perspective to
the tune of a $1 billion since Q1 but for the year really $2 billion in that product alone. And then
third, as I just articulated, the cadence of deliveries in the back half is really skewed to Q4. And
with that, some ex-U.S. deliveries could move from November into December of the calendar
year. And if that were to occur, given our one-month lag from a reporting perspective, that would
fall -- those revenues would fall into Q1 of 2023. I do not know whether that's going to happen,
but I'm planning that it might happen. So therefore I'd probably be conservative in my approach,
in my outlook to the revenue guide for that specific medicine.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Okay. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Robyn Karnauskas, Analyst, Truist Securities with Truist Securities.
Q - `Robyn Karnauskas, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Hi, guys, thanks for taking my question and all the color on the call today. I guess, mine is on
Paxlovid and maybe you could talk a little bit about -- I know there, why you said there is low rate
in line with clinical trials for rebounding, maybe that's under-reported and you outlined your plan
for new trials. What are you doing potentially decrease that potential for rebounding and the new
studies? Are you extending, doubling the dose? And maybe some trends, a couple of -- give us
more color on some trends that you're seeing on Paxlovid? I know you mentioned globally we're
hearing in some states it's more limited versus others. Can you just give us some more color
there on trends you're seeing on access? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. William, why don't you speak a little bit about the program, what we haven't rebounding.
And then Angela you speak a little bit about the trend of the revenues and the uptake.
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. Thanks, Albert, and thanks for the question. So, as we reported earlier in the EPIC-HR study,
we did see single agent percent of potential rebound, but we also saw it in the placebo arm of
the very similar rate. Since then we have seen other studies coming out including from the Mayowith ours in terms of single-digit percent of rebound. And it's also been seen not only with
placebo, but also with competitor antivirals. And internally, we also have data from real world data
as well as additional pharmacovigilance data showing again that it's a very similar low percentage
rate of recurrence.
That said though, we are working with the FDA to finalize plans for a trial in which we would treat
such patients and we're still deciding on the final outline of that. And in addition, as Mike will
outline, we will be looking at other cohorts of patients, for example, immunocompromised
patients who have a large unmet medical need. And then in that setting, we will be looking at, for
example, 5, 10 and 15 days of dosing to determine the optimum dose regimen for those
patients.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, William. And I need to say that we are very serious about the Paxlovid and we are
looking very diligently all of the anecdotal reports that are coming. But all of the data, I repeat all
of the data, our internal data that we are detecting rebounds by approximately checking viral
loads. Or the external data that have been reported through pharmacovigilance to watch. Or for
studies that have been performed by certain partners is very reputable, certain partners like
Kaiser Permanente or Mayo Clinic that are consistently looking this is the low single-digit, actually
less than 1% in the external studies. And it was, as we have repeated, around 2% in the
methodology we used in ours and very consistent with the numbers of pre-placebo.
So although we try to see if there is a need to do something about it, seriously we can't find any
dataset other than anecdotal reports. Also I want to emphasize that even the anecdotal reports,
they are all indicating that it is a mile. So, we don't have any rebound that it is more severe, right.
And clearly, we haven't identified any single case that we have resistance through the Paxlovid.
So we are looking into it. And William said that we are going to run also some studies. We are
discussing our protocols with FDA to see for retreatment of those cases with good health. But so
far, our conclusion overall we are looking a lot. It is a very small percentage, similar to COVID,
placebo or COVID, other antivirals and with very mild symptoms. Angela, what about the trends
internationally and in the U.S. if you want?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
So globally, I think that we're doing really well. We're making excellent progress. We have made
and manufactured 30 million doses and we delivered 23.5 of those doses. So I think that the
contracting is going well, that demand and expectations for the need for Paxlovid is definitely up
there. But maybe let me use some U.S. examples where things -- where we have a little bit more
data and where things I think are going particularly well. The U.S. actually contracted a 10.8 million
doses with us so far and 7.4 million doses of all of those have already been allocated to all the
states. So I think that gives you a sense of how much demand is coming in from all of the states.
And then every single week, our utilization of OpEx level has also increased. In fact, most recently,
we hit an all-time high of 389,000 doses of Paxlovid that we use in -- just in one week. So that
gives you a sense of sort of the increase and the momentum. What's really driving this is
obviously to get the education and the familiarity and experience now physicians as well as
patients, but also the excellent work that is being done at the federal as well as the state level --
at the state level in terms of education and utilization.
And I want to call out in particular the Test to Treat program that I think has been particularly
effective and very positive. To date, more than 41,000 pharmacies are now Test to Treat centersand that means that just gives access to a tremendous amount of the population to be able to
access Paxlovid. And also recently pharmacists are now able to prescribe Paxlovid in certain
limitations.
And over and above whatever the states and the federal government are doing, Pfizer is also
aggressively and sort of be supporting education. So, actually we have leveraged the entire Pfizer
field force to provide education. We're running webinars. And to date we've reached over
300,000 healthcare professionals as well as 80,000 pharmacists, just to give you a sense of the
extent and the breadth of reach that we have accomplished.
I mean, all of that also complemented by public service announcements about driving awareness
of the treatment, but also the individual risk that each patient could carry and making them aware
that they could be a potential candidate for Paxlovid. So I think with all of these efforts that have
gone on and that we are continuing, we feel really good about the momentum of Paxlovid, the
utilization of Paxlovid and the benefit that Paxlovid can bring particularly in a time when there are
surges going on around the entire world.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Robyn. Next question please, Chelsea.
Operator
Your next questions come from the line of `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, thanks for taking the question. I had a two-part one on your mRNA seasonal flu vaccine
program. I was just wondering if you had any HAI titer data that you can share from the trial? We
saw the CD -- the T-cell data, but again I'm wondering if there's any titer data you can share? And
then anything on the safety, tolerability there? Is it fair to assume that the profile is similar to
Comirnaty or are there any particular differences you'd like to call out? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Terence. Mikael, why don't you take this question.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. We will share details in upcoming conference, but I can just give a little bit more color. As
you know, the highest medical burden and hospitalization occurs in the 65 plus where the A
strains are the most dominant. We had very strong titers against the A strains. And exceeding
what you would see with the current recommended vaccines. So we are very bullish about our
ability with mRNA to end use both strong antibody response and CD4/CD8 T cells, which are not
in use on our current standard of care. And this is the reason why we are sharing today that we
are announcing to Phase III study.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Terence. Next question please.A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Tolerability -- sorry, tolerability of this 30 microgram. Sorry, Terence, I didn't know that. Far us
tolerability was, of course, supported by our billion of doses of the platform in COVID. And on top
of that, in older adults, the 30-microgram have a very good acceptance, the main patient group.
And I believe it's going to be excellent and very similar to other available flu vaccines.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Also so Mikael, you spoke about A. You didn't speak about the B strains in the immunogenicity
results. They were similar to the current high dose of (inaudible).
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah, I didn't mentioned the B strains. We noted in general lower response to B strains with both
standard of care. And we edged on the lower side with our vaccine. That's why I was so
encouraged to see the unique piece of response against the B-cell strain and the totality of that
data make us encouraged that we will have a strong product for both A&B.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And the thing how confident we feel it is that although the regulatory pathway, it is just to
demonstrate non-inferiority in immunogenicity, we are going for an efficacy trial. So the trial that is
-- we announced yesterday, is going to measure real efficacy in flu, which we believe that we
expect -- of course, science is unpredictable, but we expect to win with flying colors. Let's go to
the next one.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi guys, thanks for taking my question. I had a question and a clarification. The questions on
Paxlovid. I know the Test to Treat program from the Biden administration has been a big driver of
volumes. And my question is, how would the demand dynamics change when we transition to a
commercial purchasing model? And let's say the Test to Treat is still in place, would that -- would
there be any change or not?
And my clarification is, Mikael I think some comments you might have made at a recent non-
transcripted meeting on the TL1A program and whether there's been a signal consistent across
the Phase 2A and Phase 2B, could you please clarify that? Thank you very much. And I'm referring
to the interim analysis that happened reasonably.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Angela, what do you think? If we got to open commercial market, do you think that we will be
better or worse both with COVID?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
So I think that there are elements that we will be able to implement in the commercial market
that currently that we don't. So for sure, you've just heard me share comments about the efforts
that we've put into Paxlovid already here in the U.S. and ex-U.S., right. The execution and thesupport of education, support of our entire field forces, support of retail, support of patients
through education again and PSAs, all that will continue. But I think what happens in a full
commercial launches that you will have multiple distributors and multiple points of distribution
throughout the entire country. You will have stocking by every pharmacist -- pharmacy and
pharmacist and various points of views. And so I think that in a commercial setting, actually you'll
be able to reach a much broader set of channels that we currently even do today. So I think that's
one difference.
I think the second difference is that what you can do from a commercial perspective will also look
different. Remember today we're under EUA and while we could do a lot of education, key things
like sampling cannot be done in an EUA. So that's going to be an example of another difference
that will happen post EUA.
And then I think finally, even if you think about consumer education, today we've really limited
ourselves to unbranded and sort of disease awareness education, but again in a commercial
setting, you could support through branded education and talk a lot more about the product. And
so all of these are things that actually Pfizer does in the commercial organization or Pfizer does
really well. This is our sweet spot. So I think that we look forward to building on top of what the
government has been doing, which has been really excellent and building on top of that to do
more and to support greater initiatives across the country.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela, well said. What about the TL1A, Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Briefly, this is our internally discovered antibody against TL1A, a member of the TNF superfamily
that is associated with inflammatory diseases. Yes, we have consistent robust efficacy for old
comer UC patients and very strong efficacy consistent close to trial for prospectively defined
position biomarker. Tolerability was very good. Now this is induction data and later this year we
will have maintenance data. And as we get those dataset, we will decide about next step. Thank
you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let's go to the next call.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great, thank you for taking my question and congrats on the early oral GLP-1 data, especially for
once daily. My question is how much incremental data we are going to see in September from
the one you presented today? And also how soon can you move this area into bigger trials? And
how do you see the biggest differentiation versus the oral semaglutide at this point? Thank you
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael, maybe also you take that question.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `Yeah. We are very excited about this new dataset 1532 that you will see at the EASD meeting in
Stockholm in September. There will be additional data. And I think you will find HbA1c very
encouraging, although this was a short study. I think compared to oral semaglutide, the
differentiation is substantial. This is a true small molecule that can be given as once a day, it's
completely independent on fasting or meal concordance. And I think you will be able to reach
higher effects on both glucose as well as on weight reduction. As I reported now, we were almost
at 100 mg/dL reduction over four to six week and 5 kilogram. And we haven't yet optimized the
titration to even higher doses. So we are very encouraged of what we see. We are going to a
share with regulators soon our next trial set and move swiftly to allow us to peak the winter and
the regimen for a potential Phase 3 study to come off to the Phase 2b.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Mikael. And just to add to that, this is for us clearly high priority project. We have a
designation within the company what we call the lightspeed projects, project of significant value
to pay service and as a result also significant economic value, where we give this designation until
we move them with the speed of light. And we overinvest to make sure what we de-risk and we
move fast. And I review personally on a biweekly -- on the bimonthly basis the progress of these
program. So that is going to be one of them. Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets with BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Thank you so much for taking my question and congrats on the progress. I would love for your
perspective on the provision for Medicare to negotiate directly with manufacturers the part of the
now coined inflation reduced map that we have press reports, reporting deal which we
mentioned in Schumer [ph]. And what kind of -- what's the potential long-term impact on your
R&D and innovation? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. I'm disappointed with what I'm reading in the newspapers. Of course, we can't know
exactly what will happen because we have seen that the situation is very volatile. But everything
that they are reporting, they are going to implement a price setting, in reality it's not price
negotiation because they are forcing there will by implementing a 95% tax according to previous
guidance, that will cause the industry significant. We estimate $270 billion over 10 years. There is a
positive provision on there, but they are reducing the out of pocket cost for the patients. That's a
significant one. But it's too little and too late. They could do way more because that will cost them
10% of the $370 billion what they're going to collect. They are basically not doing that to alleviate
patients cost because they could give all the money and then make significant, significant
difference to the patient. They're just giving a part of that. And they want even to start it, if I
understood well, from year 2025.
So, although that out of pocket is a very positive provision, there is one is a provision, but I think
we will force the industry to reduce our limit if it goes to the way that they are suggesting. So
other than that, I don't have anything to add. We will wait to see how the -- what exactly in reality
that means and we'll go from there. And also I want to say it is very disappointing that they are
choosing to single out one industry. Everything in this deal from what I understand, factual of what
is affecting everyone. But then there are specific measures to affect only the pharma industry,
particularly when we are out of the pandemic will be seeing the status proven, the value thatbrings to public health and to the global economy that we will be in a very different point in this
global economy if we didn't have the investments and the thriving life sciences sector. And
they're choosing to single out this industry. I think it is wrong. And I hope that the reason will
prevail when this discussion goes to Congress. Let's move to the next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. `
Hi, thanks for taking my question here. Just curious if some of the setbacks that we've seen in the
CD47 space change your view on the market opportunity for your Trillium asset? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, why don't we go to William.
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah, sure. So thanks for the question, Louise. So we saw the news the other day. Internally, we
remain confident in our program with Trillium and we proceed with the programs that we are
planning. And we'll let the data speak for itself when they come out.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `David Risinger, Analyst, SVB Securities with SVB Securities.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, SVB Securities `
Yes, thanks very much and congratulations on the performance. I wanted to ask a little bit about
Vyndaqel and Vyndamax. The performance was below our and consensus expectations. If you
could speak to that? And also talk about the sequential prospects going forward, i.e., has the
product peaked out in the U.S. and how should we think about future prospects relative to the
sales that you booked? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David. Angela, what do you think?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
We continue to be really pleased with how Vyndaqel is doing, if you look at just from a diagnosis
perspective, quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year, we continue to do a really great job of
effectively finding and identifying who that ATTR-CM patients are, diagnosing them, and then
bringing them on to therapies. So in this quarter, we have reached an all-time high over 40%
diagnosis rate. And I think that this is well beyond what we thought we would be able to do in the
timeframe that we have had.
So we continue to believe in the growth that this product has. The real-world data that we've
been generating now and the overall survival benefits are really compelling. And the fact that weare the only product being able to demonstrate these benefits I think speaks well to how we will
continue to be able to build in this market despite competition that will arise. I think what you're
referring to in terms of the impact and the expectations really is a one-time effect in and it was in
Japan. And this was a very specific price decrease that was planned and driven by regulation.
When Vyndaqel was launched in Japan, again based on pricing regulation in the country that was
specific to the country, it was a much higher price than any other country we had. And so by
regulation, again it's the 75% price decrease that we're seeing is a function of that. But the
underlying growth of Vyndaqel in Japan is really strong. We had just in the first half of 2022 69%
volume growth. We had 32% year-over-year new patient starts. So hopefully this gives you a
sense that the net revenue impacts you see are in fact not a reflection of the demand and the
true underlying demand whether it's in the U.S. or ex-U.S.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Angela. That you, David. Let's go to the next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A question on your RSV vaccine. There doesn't seem to be anything but a brief
mention of the program in the press release or the slides and really nothing in prepared remarks
that we have Phase 3 data results coming out very soon. So I'm wondering why? But really my
main question is why you recently changed the primary endpoint in the Phase 3 trial including
downsizing of the trial? And that comes on top of the delay and readout as announced earlier this
year. And if I can slip one in on your quadrivalent mRNA flu, when would we likely see results from
your Phase 3 that you're starting up?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Mikael, both question goes to you. I think the first question I think was for RSV, right.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. We have made a great progress into RSV Adult file. As you know, we run it through two
different seasons in the Northern and Southern Hemisphere to make sure we had good patient
experience and cases since looking good for readout that would come soon. I remain very
positive about RSV Adult based on our Phase 2 challenge data that was stellar. And the role is
particular entity and that we're targeting play. And as you know, we are the only one that are
targeting the two forms of this prefusion.
You also asked about modRNA flu. Yes, as Albert mentioned, we are going deep here with an
efficacy study. We are incorporating about the data that we are seeing. We think it's a unique
dataset. And we plan to soon embark on our Phase 3 of the proper dialog with regulators. Of
course, this is an event trial. But if the season is robust, which you can ever know, we would
expect that Phase 3 to readout next year.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Exactly. And also I'm sorry if we gave the impression that RSV is not important. It was extremely
important. There is no better good news this is why we didn't mention it must, but still remains avery good news. But the previous studies were extremely strong. And that the current studies are
progressing very well. So we have very high confidence options and surprise that we will launch
next year a very robust product, both in adults and in maternal, the maternal adults, both sides
are progressing very well. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, guys. Thanks so much for taking the question. Just had a couple on tax little bit real quick.
Can you give us an update on the number of countries you're in contract discussions with? I'm just
thinking relative to the start of the year. And then related what's been the biggest contributor
supply expansion in 2Q? And when do you think you guys will be fully, fully normalize? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let's go to Angela for the number of countries and where we are without?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Yeah. So we are in contract with a significant number of countries at this point. Maybe I can talk
about it from a dose perspective. So more than 35 million treatment courses have already been
contracted with a number of countries. And this is what we publicly disclosed. There are additional
doses that I can't talk about because either the country didn't want us to disclose them publicly or
we're in the middle of negotiations with them.
So I think to answer your question, since we last left off, we have made progress with our
contracting. I think what's -- maybe what's more important to clarify is just that the approach that
countries are taking to contract with us is just really different to where we were in Comirnaty. In
Comirnaty, they were interested in securing large amounts of doses upfront, but that's in fact not
the case here in Paxlovid. And the reason being that number one, they're being prudent with how
they are ordering and they are able to do that because they know that we have the
manufacturing capacity and that we can pivot as we need. The countries are also trying to
manage inventory and not to have too much-aged product lying around. And so I think that this is
what's driving the more smaller, more frequent contracting rather than big, big contracts that like
you saw in Comirnaty.
The other thing I will also say is and the reason why I'm talking of doses rather than specific
countries is because we're also working with supranational organizations who are acting on behalf
of multiple countries. So I think Global Fund, I think UNICEF, these are -- in addition to the bilaterals
are also important organizations who are helping us to supply and bring doses into the countries.
So I think all in all great progress and I think you should expect to see that this is one of these
things that will just keep inching away because of how countries want to manage the inventory
and the supply.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. And also to because you had also a question on supplier ramp up, we have
done tremendous, tremendous progress on that field. Actually we have been able to reduce
dramatically the lead-time. So how much time it's needed for manufacturing. And we have
improved dramatically our yields. So supply is not an issue. Actually, we moved almost everythingin-house now in terms of API and finished products. Thank you very much. Next, go to the next
question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great, thanks so much for the questions. Just one follow-up on the Paxlovid comments. As we
move, I guess, from some of these large government orders that we saw with the U.S., et cetera,
earlier this year to maybe there is more kind of on-demand similar contracts. How do we think
about what the impact that has on pricing? Is I think you were giving some volume based
discounts before? Just help us, I guess we think about kind of 2023 and beyond what pricing
does for that business.
And then kind of be your question I had was just on Ibrance dynamics, I think you mentioned in
the prepared remarks, you're seeing signs of a recovery for your business there? I am just
interested in how you can assume the balance of just overall market dynamics relative to the
competitive landscape with obviously when your competitors with an adjuvant indication? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So thank you very much. We do not provide, let's say, forward-looking projections from pricing.
And particularly, every time I speak about pricing is becoming big. So I want to make sure what --
we respect that. I know what you are asking. And I can give a very high level answer. Clearly we
are providing special pricing when we are contracting very, very big quantities with governments.
That's also the incentive for the government to buy big quantities because the price is really,
really very attractive. If we move to normal market, the prices would reflect both in vaccines and
on the virus, the prices of similar volume, similar technology and products that they are out there.
And clearly also when you move to private commercial markets, the complexities are getting way,
way higher. We will need to go to single doses in the vaccine, so manufacturing complexes are
very higher. We need to have distribution to small distribution centers, including physician offices.
So all of that creates a very big complexity, but also could be taken into consideration as we price
our products at that time.
And I want to emphasize that also those present significant opportunities for us. Because the
open market, it is way more complex, way more diverse. You have millions of customers rather
than one or two. And this plays to our strengths in terms of having a global presence or within the
U.S., dramatic presence in every single territory of the country with thousands of people that they
are calling physicians, hospitals, accounts in -- the payers accounts, et cetera, et cetera. So it's
something that if we see a turn into this market, also we will see us being able to compete more
of a position of strength than not. As regards to Ibrance, Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure. As you say, the metastatic breast cancer CDK46 market is incredibly competitive yet, I will
emphasize that Ibrance continues to be the leading CDK46 inhibitor. In fact, we have a 74%
market share across all patients in first-line therapy. So -- and I think that this number has been
pretty consistent as we talk about it every quarter. And I think it demonstrates just thetremendous experience that physicians and patients have and the confidence they have in
Ibrance despite new competition.
The patient experience, the fact that we have real well clinical evidence, all of this really adds to
the confidence that we have in this brand. And even though, Ibrance is a mature brand, we do
continue to see growth and where the growth will come from the following places. You're going
to see growth from the CDK class. You're going to see growth from the recovery of new patient
starts, which as you know, has not recovered to the levels of prior to the pandemic as well as
stabilization of the Pap through time when economic conditions improve. And actually want to
make a special point of this class growth because therein lies, I think, a tremendous opportunity
for all of us.
Today, well last year this time, the CDK class was 48% in first-line metastatic breast cancer use.
This quarter, it was 54%. So even though it's grown that still means that the majority of the time
CDKs are not being used. And I think all of us, in this class, really need to focus on those as you
know the leading priority in helping to grow each of our brands, but also to grow the class to
impact patient outcome.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you very much. First a quick word of welcome and appreciation to David for your proactive
commentary on the phasing of revenues. It really mirrors what your predecessor had often firmly
referred to as the rhythm of the numbers. Very helpful to get insight on near-term factors that are
generating push-pulls on those numbers. My question is on business development, however, and
I'm not sure that Amir has joined us. But perhaps if you could update us on your latest thoughts
with the team in terms of how you're feeling about areas of focus particularly in view of recent
broader commentary, for instance, from the FTC, taking a look at competitive dynamic care. And
then secondly, as you reflect upon the overall ecosystem and the receptivity given things like
lower relatively speaking Biotech valuations, are you sensing any shifts or trends or changes in the
mindset potential targets partners acquirers? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Amir is here and he will be happy to speak about it. Amir.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Chris, thank you for the question. Let me just start with your specific FTC point. I think we've
demonstrated a very strong track record of shepherding our transactions to date through the
regulatory process. And that's been largely built on having just a close successful constructive and
collaborative relationships with regulatory bodies globally.
In addition, our business development focus and I'll recap our priorities in a second, is focused on
how do we use our unique abilities to translate emerging science into breakthrough medicines.
So most of the deals that we do are pro-patient and they are pro innovation. So we're confident
that we can continue to advance our BD strategies in a successful way.We've been very clear that our goal is to add $25 billion of risk-adjusted revenue by 2030. And I
think we are making very good progress against that. This year, you saw our transaction with
ReViral and subsequently with Biohaven which respectively we believe have the potential to add
$1.5 billion and $6 billion in peak sales to our business. And this was on the back of a very active
2021.
And going forward, we are leaving very few stones unturned when we look at opportunities. And
our focus is going to be consistent. It's on scientific substrate that has a potential breakthrough
for patients, deals that accelerate our top line growth in the back half of the decade, and then
opportunities where we can add substantial value, whether that's through our scientific chops
and/or our commercial capabilities. And we're going to be very open to deal structures. And
we've said before, we're also going to be agnostic to size. We've been clear about the fact that
cost synergy driven deals are not where our focus is going to be and we're going to be
extremely disciplined. I think we're very excited about the opportunities that are ahead of us and
the flexibility that our balance sheet gives us to pursue those. And on your question on valuation
fluctuations, those market valuation fluctuations are not going to drive our BD strategy. We're
going to remain focused on fundamentals in the way that I described.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And it's very important when we are aiming very high to also be able at the same time
to be disciplined, disciplined in value for the science and paying the right price for the right
science, so that the capital that we will dispose would be maximized in producing value for
patients and our shareholders. So we go very big, $25 billion, but as we are improving, we are
very, very disciplined in how we are allocating our capital and we will continue doing that. With
that, let's go to the next question. Thank you, Amir.
Operator
Your next question come from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi with Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Two-part question please. Your former head of vaccines is now your competitor, GSK.
When he topline the recent positive Phase 3 data for the RSV vaccine candidate, which is adjuvant
data, observation he made was he stressed the same level of efficacy in the older patient cohort
than in the younger patient cohort. It's possible to imagine that this may be uniquely related to
the adjuvant that they have, given the immunosenescence of the aging population of T cells.
Given your vaccine does not have an adjuvant background, is that a concern, particularly over
follow -- longer years follow-up? And then second, just following up on a question on Ibrance.
Could you talk to your Arvinas compound, ARV-471? We come up with market shares which are
materially lower than yours. But whatever the number is, it's clearly reducing quite significantly as
competition builds momentum in the market. How are you thinking about, as you transition this
drug into Phase 3, both what combinations you're going to run and what are you going to use as
the control arm for the combination of a SERD plus a CDK4/6?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew. Just to make a correction, it was not the head of our vaccines that joined. He
was another member of the vaccines team, but by no means was the fact. Let's move to Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `Yeah. I am very optimistic about our RSV vaccine construct. We have seen high immune titer that
are critical for the vaccine across all ages. In fact, we are the only one that have showed -- caused
strain A and B for RSV the very high titers which differ between all the vaccines including the one
that you mentioned because they mainly measure across cross activity from A to B strain. So that
was important also by our challenge data that looked formidable. So while nobody can predict
the exact outcome of studies and comparing one study to another, we remain very bullish that
our bivalent vaccine should stand out in performance and in tolerability. Please note, some of
that, even including the one that you referred to, often associated with somewhat unpleasant
side effects. And that was one part of our differentiation to achieve with Bivalent very high date
that is for and with best-in-class tolerability.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And what about Ibrance?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
The ARV471, I can only speak about the science here that we see that drug being active in several
lines as by itself best in class estrogen receptor PROTEC. And we are going to set up our studies
in a patient population, which contains many as estrogen receptor mutants which often are poorly
managed by the current available fulvestrant or other sides. And we think this is a unique
opportunity. And number two, the drug seemed to combine very well with our own CDK46 drugs
and we think it could advance into early metastatic lines and positive over time even to early
breast cancer, maybe that are combined with always CDK4. So we have very high hopes for that
clause of drugs ARV471 run combined with our pipeline.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Anything to add, William?
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah, I would just add, as you mentioned, Mikael, the preclinical data shows that AR degradation
could be superior to selective estrogen receptor integrators and so we're very excited about this
potential to be superior to SERDs that are being developed.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you from your lips to God's ears. Also I want to add on the RSV because this is the second
question that came in and maybe we give the impression that we are not very hot on it. We are
extremely hot on it. Clearly very important product for us. Clearly very important product for GSK.
So there will be a lot of speculation, maybe the adjuvant will do that or maybe the other thing will
do this. I think data will speak on the sales. With the totality of data available so far what I have
seen, we have higher reasons to believe we are better. But you never know before the end of
the trials. But right now, with all in all, it looks like we have very, very strong profile with all the data
that we have seen so far. We are waiting a lot with a lot of excitement to unblind the data and
see the reality. And then, of course, the best will win. So let's move now to Steve.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen with Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `Thank you so much. I would just like to understand more deeply Pfizer's thinking on Factor XI. I can
think of three possibilities. First Pfizer believes there is simply no room to improve upon Eliquis.
Second, Pfizer believes Factor XI could be very useful, but you haven't found the ideal candidate.
Or third, Pfizer is not sure the jury is still out? Any thoughts?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we have answered it before and maybe Mikael also can give some color because they are
very, very good question. But bottom line is, we are looking for signs that it could provide hope
that we can have something better than Eliquis and we haven't found. So that's the reality.
According to our opinion, there is not much maturity right now to overcome that brilliant -- the
very good profile of Eliquis. Mikael, anything to add? But as simple as that.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
I think you said it very well. In the TL [ph] field placement, the platelet inhibitor and the ESI are
going to be genericized. Eliquis and rivaroxaban great drugs. Eliquis being a market leader of
Factor X inhibitor or by the time Factor XI comes to market close to or already genericized. So the
room for an expensive drug in an area with this many great treatments that require tremendously
high R&D expense coming off the patients have gone through multiple great drugs. For us, it
doesn't look like the best area to deploy capital. We always wish other good luck for the benefit
of patients.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
Your final question will come from the line of `Elliott Bosco, Analyst, UBS with UBS.
Q - `Elliott Bosco, Analyst, UBS
Hi, this is `Elliott Bosco, Analyst, UBS from UBS on for Colin Bristow. Thanks for taking our questions. Just a few
unpacks little bit. You mentioned countries needing to manage all their supply. Do you think that
current Paxlovid use trends will result in excess inventory versus what has been contractually
purchased? And additionally, could you comment on the recent Codexis retainer arrangement
and how we should think about that with regard to a 2023 Paxlovid demand? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure. No, I think that the way we are manufacturing Paxlovid with, of course, great knowledge
from our prior experiences with Comirnaty, but also in terms of our negotiations and discussions
with countries is actually allowing us to do and supply planning very well. So we are manufacturing
as we need and according to the contracts and according to the demand that the countries are
providing us. So I think we're doing that on a -- in a very prudent and in a very -- in a prudent and
an effective way. So I didn't -- we didn't -- your second question.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, what was the second question, I'm not sure.
Q - `Elliott Bosco, Analyst, UBS
Codexis, the enzyme supplier for Paxlovid.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it was there. You want to -- I did refer to it, but maybe also you can reiterate it to David.
A - `David Denton, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah, I think, Albert indicated this earlier in his remarks is that in fact over the last several
quarters, we've improved our manufacturing process, reduce the cycle time. And importantly,
improve the yield from an output perspective. So therefore, we don't need as much raw
materials and API to produce the same amount of finished goods. And then finally, we've actually
invested in our network to make sure that we can actually produce some API as well. So we're in
good shape.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
It's what I said before, we are moving most of it now because we could weigh faster than what
we anticipated moving inside. So that created some considerations of raw materials to some
external suppliers. I'm sorry about that.
I think that was the last question. Let me close with a few takeaways. The first one as you see, we
continue to deliver strong operational performance. We increased our full-year '22 operational
financial forecast while maintaining a challenging foreign exchange environment. So I think a few
companies likely would be able to do that. We believe we are well positioned not only to maintain
but also to grow both our commercial and scientific leadership in the battle against COVID-19. It
will be for us a very important focus and we believe that the medical need will be fair for the
years to come. That's why we're investing so heavily.
We continue to focus on driving long-term shareholder returns by remaining very disciplined both
on our operations and our incremental capital deployment. You saw even in this quarter, but even
more, we are using our administrative expenses, our SI&A is going down and then we reinvest in
R&D because we have programs that we are starting that we feel is a very good return on our
investment. And we continue to advance our internal scientific pipeline, while executing against
our previously announced plans to potentially add at least $25 billion of risk adjusted revenues
through business development opportunities, so on 20:30 top line.
Just I want very quickly to see that this results in R&D are yielding our -- this effort in R&D are
yielding results. Just to mention, few of the potential approvals and launches that we are going to
have in the next few months. See Bingo, we expect to launch the adolescence next year. And, of
course, next year would be very our first year where we expect to have full access for this drug.
We expect to launch next year RSV maternal. We expect to launch next year RSV adults. We
expect to launch next year Prevnar to MD for pediatrics. We expect to launch next year
elranatamab for triple class refractory myeloma. We expect to launch next year ritlecitinib for
alopecia areata. We expect to launch next year Pentavalent, a pneumococcal vaccine. We expect
to launch next year Talapro for prostate cancer metastatic castration basins. We expect to launch
-- or we did already Myofibril for endometriosis. And then a little bit later, we expect -- may be
this net in '23 or beginning of '24, DMD and flu mRNA.So it is -- this is the organic. I'm not referring to the Biohaven's NURTEC that is coming and one of
their molecules. I am referring mainly to the organically developed pipelines assets. I don't think
that much of that has been a factor into what some of the analysts are projecting. That's why I'm
emphasizing them, so that they can pay a little bit more attention. Those are very high probability
of success, the ones that I mentioned. They are not in the pocket clearly, all of them. And some
clearly might not make it to the gross line, but we believe they are seriously derisk all of that.
So, with that in mind, I'm really looking forward to further have 6% CAGR by '25 in our business as
we promised in 2019. In fact, year-to-date we are at 6%, excluding BD and excluding COVID. And I
think we will do that by 2025. We will maintain this 6% CAGR. And we will do more by BD that we
have right now implemented. So, I think we have a very good growth prospects and we will
maintain our leadership in the call. Thank you very, very much for your interest. And for those that
have summer vacations yet. enjoy your summer vacations.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Pfizer's second quarter 2022 earnings conference call. You
may now disconnect.