Q2 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the SAP Q2 2022 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is
being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations, Chief
Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead sir.
`Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Thank you and welcome everyone. Thanks for joining us today on our earnings call to discuss
SAP's Q2 and first half 2022 results. On our Investor Relations website you can find the deck
supplementing today's call. With me today are CEO, `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; and CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, who
will make opening remarks. `Scott Russell, Customer Success, who leads our Customer Success Organization is also
with us for Q&A.
Now let's do the safe harbor. During this call we'll make forward-looking statements, which are
predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based
on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainties that
could cause actual results and outcomes to materially differ. Additional information regarding
these risks and uncertainties may be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, including but not limited to the risk factors section of SAP's Annual Report on Form
20-F for 2021.
Unless otherwise stated all financial numbers on this call are non-IFRS. Loss rates and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS year-over-year at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial
measures we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures
of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And with that, I'd like to turn over to Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `Yes. Thank you, Anthony and thanks to all of you for joining today. This has been a good quarter
for SAP despite the challenging political and macroeconomic environment. Our cloud and total
revenue have exceeded market expectations and are progressing faster than we expected at
34% and 13% nominal respectively. Our top line cloud performance is clearly ahead of plan,
further accelerated by the current macroeconomic environment and currency tailwinds.
Customers are actually turning to us now more than ever to help them address their most
pressing concerns, business model transformation and process automation, supply chain
resilience and sustainable operations. We see demand for SAP technology continuing to increase
with an increased focus on transforming and automating mission-critical business policies and the
core functions of an enterprise. As we have seen in previous economic pullbacks, companies that
balance cost efficiency measures with strategic investments in technology are more resilient and
better able to offset margin pressure. We are also seeing a powerful snowball effect from our
platform and ecosystem businesses as the adoption of SAP solutions accelerates.
Let's take a look now at some of our top line numbers for Q2. In Q2, we hit the major milestone
of cloud revenue becoming our largest revenue stream for the first time. Cloud revenue was up
24% at constant currency and up 34% at nominal levels. Current cloud backlog growth
accelerated at 25% and now exceeds EUR10 billion, another first. Current cloud backlog for SAP
S/4HANA hit a record 87% growth and stands at EUR2.3 billion, driven by continued strong
adoption of RISE with SAP. In addition, S/4HANA cloud revenue growth continue to accelerate at
72%. Customers are choosing us for the power of our integrated portfolio. First, core ERP, second
the SAP Business Technology platform. And third, our best-in-class solutions. Our strategy is
focused on investing in and capitalizing on the integration of these assets. This provides
unmatched superior solutions for our customers and extensive cross-sell opportunities for SAP.
I'd like to now provide an update on our strategy execution. Since we initiated our transformation
almost two years ago, our performance is well ahead of plan. SAP has always been
acknowledged as the category leader for ERP. Now just as SAP invented ERP decades ago, we
are leading the ERP transition to the cloud. This has led to over EUR2.2 billion of current cloud
backlog for SAP S/4HANA as I mentioned earlier. The momentum we are seeing today
increasingly comes from the power of being a platform company. Our business technology
platform now has a one way exceeding EUR1.4 billion, and there are more than 14,000 customers
using the platform.
Turning to our core line of Business Solutions. They are all growing by double-digits in both cloud
revenue and current cloud backlog. We see customers increasingly choosing to adopt the full
portfolio from SAP given the enhanced value from our integrated solutions. For example, many of
our customers opt for our Intelligent Spend solutions to achieve cost savings across their entire
direct and indirect spend, as well as travel and expense and third-party workforce. The potential
for cross-selling is tremendous. In Q2 we saw RISE with SAP being across and upsell catalyst with
more than 85% of RISE deals including additional cloud solutions. And 77% of RISE customers
adopting the SAP business technology platform.
We have also entered key new growth markets. Recognizing that no business can succeed in
isolation, we pioneered a new approach in building the SAP business network. The SAP business
network allows customers to connect real-time across their suppliers in industry specific networks.
This boosts transparency and provides the resilience so desperately needed in today's
environment. Our new sustainability portfolio complements the SAP Business Network, enabling
transparency across value chains, helping our customers to meet regulatory requirements and
contribute to a sustainable future. Underpinning this leadership position is our business
transformation as a service offering, RISE with SAP.Since RISE with SAP was launched at the beginning of last year, we have seen the offering going
from gaining traction to gaining momentum, to becoming the preferred choice for our customers
as they move to the cloud. RISE with SAP helps customers with the hardest part of their transition,
re-designing how their companies want. We offer our customers so much more than a technology
transition. RISE with SAP helps them first, to redesign their end-to-end business processes.
Second, transition to a new agile ERP in the cloud. And third, innovate on the platform to design
their own custom solutions.
In Q2, RISE customers included Moderna, ABB Information Systems, RWE, HeidelbergCement and
Bridgestone. Moderna's pioneering vaccine is helping the world overcome the COVID-19
pandemic. They selected RISE with SAP to support their ambitious growth targets through
scalable, automated end-to-end processes across research and development, sourcing and
distribution and support functions. RWE, the leading German utility company is adopting RISE with
SAP to support its international expansion and its sustainability initiatives as part of its Growing
Green strategy.
The success of RISE with SAP in turn drove strong performance across our line of business
applications including S/4HANA. We see continued costs and upsell momentum, which means we
continue to create about 2.5 times the value from a customer after they have adopted RISE with
SAP. We now have around 20,000 S/4HANA customers, up 15% year-over-year with more than
60% of our customers being net new. We are also seeing strong momentum for S/4HANA in the
cloud, with approximately 6,000 customers and over 600 wins in Q2. We are seeing increasing
traction in the mid-market and in the start-up community. For example, the French unicorn
Doctolib is an online and mobile booking platform that helps users find doctors and make
appointments. They selected S/4HANA Cloud as an easy to implement, robust, scalable solution
providing fast time to value.
Now our order entry growth for S/4HANA cloud and on-premise clearly exceeded 30%,
demonstrating significant gains in market share. SAP's business technology platform enables
customer innovation and infrastructure integration. This quarter the global leader
HeidelbergCement decided to move on their on-premise ERP on Orcale to S/4HANA Cloud on
Azure. They will be using SAP's Business Technology Platform as an integration and development
platform to provide access to SAP services. Our sustainability solutions have taken on an even
more important role given the energy crisis. ERGO Group, one of the largest insurance groups in
Europe has chosen SAP to help them navigate the highly regulated sustainability expectations of
the financial services industry, of course, in Germany. ERGO aims to open new sustainable
business practices, create climate neutral business operations and create transparency
throughout its business by reporting in accordance with the international guidelines set out by the
GI [ph].
Our Intelligent Spend and Business Network division has taken on new meaning as companies
plan for continued inflationary pressures and a need to diligently manage cost. Wins this quarter
include BeiGene, the leading biotech company specializing in anti-cancer drugs. They chose SAP
Ariba to quickly build a cloud-based procurement management platform to support different
languages and regulations around the world in addition to improving efficiency.
Turning to our customer engagement portfolio. Positivo Tecnologia, a Brazilian technology
company is using SAP CX solutions to automate their marketing campaigns based on customer
behavior analysis. This will enable them to personalize their customer engagements and create
more opportunities for customer cross-sell, up-sell, conversion and retention. In Q2, ASUS the
global leader in personal computer, monitors, graphics cards and (inaudible) shows SAP success
factors to bring its vision for employees to life. The solution will provide a one-stop servicesupported by data analysis and insights. SAP Signavio, part of our business process intelligent
portfolio is going from strength to strength. Corning, which is one of the world's leading
innovators in material science selected the full SAP Signavio suite to drive governance and
collaborative process management excellence as they transform their ERP systems. Customers
this quarter also include Moet Hennessy and ALTANA, the German chemical company.
I'd like to spend a little time talking about our outlook. We are entering the second half of the
year with very strong cloud pipeline. Given our strategy maps directly onto our customers most
pressing challenges, we see the shift from CapEx to OpEx spend combined with currency
tailwinds completely offsetting the top-line impact of our Russia exit. On the bottom line, we are
adjusting our guidance based on two one-time impacts. First, our intended full withdrawal from
Russia. Second, in the current macro environment, our customers are shifting to the cloud faster
than expected, as they continue to move from upfront capital expenditure to recurring
operational expenditure. This leads to an additional transactional impact on our short-term
profitability with clear mid-term upside as our cloud strategy continues to pay off. We are
managing a significant portion of these one-time impacts with additional measures around
discretionary spend.
Looking beyond 2022, we are clearly ahead of plan to deliver upon the promise we made in
October 2020 when we announced our new strategy. We are confident we will achieve double-
digit operating profit growth in 2023 while keeping the promise of flat to slightly declining
operating profit through 2021 and 2022 versus 2020. And we are well on track to achieving all the
performance goals for our 2025 mid-term ambitions.
On the bottom line, the investments we made over the last two years, put us in a good position
to deliver double-digit profit growth starting next year. Very importantly, we also have a strategic
initiative in place to consolidate and simplify our portfolio. This will result in increased focus on our
core (inaudible) solutions, providing even stronger synergies across our suite of solutions,
complemented by potential acquisitions in our core. We will provide an update on our 2025
ambition in the next quarters once we have more clarity on the macroeconomic situation.
In summary, this has been a good quarter. We made significant investments during 2021 and the
first half of 2022, which now enables us to further scale our execution. Our strategy is perfectly
aligned to the challenges our customers are facing and we look forward to helping them come
out of the current environment stronger and more resilient.
Thank you again for joining us today. And I will now hand over to Luka to talk through our results in
more detail. Luca?
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Christian. Yes, there are definitely many topics affecting businesses worldwide today
and creating a challenging environment. Nonetheless as Christian said, delivered a good quarter,
proving that our strategy is working and our solution portfolio is meeting customer demand. Our
portfolio is more relevant than ever for our customers and the transformation to the cloud
continues to deliver them even more exciting opportunities. We are helping them transform their
businesses, create more resilient supply chains and accelerate their sustainability efforts.
In the second quarter, we saw robust double-digit cloud order entry growth with a particularly
strong momentum in North America and Latin America. The trend towards larger cloud
transactions also accelerated and deals with the volume greater than EUR5 million, contributed
48% to our cloud order entry in the quarter. This was again driven by our RISE with SAP offering.from S/4HANA and our Business Technology Platform. To reiterate, we continue driving strong
top line growth and cloud revenue became the largest revenue stream up 24%. Our current
cloud backlog exceeded EUR10 billion for the first time and was up 25%, accelerating from the
23% growth that we saw in the first quarter. Again the war in Ukraine had a dampening impact of 1
percentage point on that growth rate. S/4HANA current cloud backlog was up a record 87% and
contributed more than EUR2.2 billion to the overall current cloud backlog, becoming the biggest
contributor.
At our Financial Analyst Conference, we introduced a new disclosure to reflect the evolution of
our strategy. Our SaaS and PaaS portfolio combined grew an impressive 26%. And breaking it
down, SaaS cloud revenue was up 24% and PaaS cloud revenue was up 40%. The strong cloud
growth was primarily driven by an outstanding contribution of S/4HANA Cloud, Qualtrics, the
Business Technology Platform and SAP Signavio. In addition, we also saw strong double-digit
contributions from our other SaaS offerings including, Concur, which continued its path of
recovery and grew by 20%.
Fueled by this cloud revenue momentum as well as the strong growth in services revenue, our
total revenue was up 5% in the quarter. Our cloud revenue performance was strong across all
regions in the second quarter. EMEA increased by 27%, Americas by 22%, and APJ by 26%.
Germany had an outstanding cloud revenue performance. While the US, Brazil, Japan, India and
Switzerland were particularly strong.
Let's now take a look at the bottom line. Starting with gross margins. Due to revenue mix effects,
our total gross margin decreased by 30 basis points to 73%. Very importantly our cloud gross
profit growth of 28% was supported by continued upward trend of our cloud gross margin. Year-
over-year it expanded by more than 2 percentage points, and reached 72%. And that is despite
increased investments into our next generation cloud delivery program. Our non-IFRS. operating
profit was down by 16% to EUR1,680 million, mainly driven by reduced contribution from software
licenses revenue as well as significant bad debt expenses related to the war in Ukraine. In
addition, we incurred restructuring expenses of EUR130 million mainly due to the exit from Russia,
impacting IFRS operating profit, which was down 32% to EUR673 million. Excluding the direct
impact of the war in Ukraine, IFRS operating profit would have been down 3% and non-IFRS
operating profit down 10%.
Let me now turn to EPS and cash flow. The decline of earnings per share that you saw in the
quarter reflects a contribution to financial income by Sapphire Ventures, which was EUR1 billion
lower than over the same period last year. Our IFRS effective tax rate was up 42.5 percentage
points to 62.2%. This was mainly due to the reduction in tax exempt income contributed by
Sapphire Ventures and an additional increase of non-deductible expenses in the context of share-
based compensation and restructuring expenses related to the war in Ukraine. As compared to
that, our non-IFRS effective tax rate was only up 10 percentage points to 29.3% as it was
unaffected by the increase in non-deductible expenses.
Our free cash flow for the first 6 months came in at approximately EUR2.81 billion [ph]. The year-
over-year decline is mainly due to the reduced profitability in the quarter and impacts from
working capital caused by our continuous move to the cloud. In the second half, however, we
expect a more favorable cash flow due to lower cash taxes and increased profitability. We are
therefore reiterating our free cash flow outlook of above EUR4.5 billion for the year.
On the tax line, we are updating our full-year 2022 IFRS effective tax rate guidance to 34% to
38%. This adjustment mainly results from an updated projection of non-deductible expenses and
the lower expected 2022 financial income contribution of Sapphire Ventures given current marketconditions. As the updated non-deductible expenses are not included in non-IFRS, we continued
to anticipate a full year non-IFRS effective tax rate of 23% to 27%, but now expect to be at the
upper end of this range.
Let's now turn to the outlook. As you've seen in today's release, we are reaffirming our revenue
outlook for the full year. We are updating our operating profit outlook range to reflect the
expected operating profit impact of approximately EUR350 million from the war in Ukraine and a
potential continued marked decline of software licenses revenue due to the current macro
environment. Finally, a few words on sustainability and some strategic initiatives. We continue to
make progress on the sustainability front as both an enabler and the exemplar. We have the
biggest positive impact through our solutions and we have announced new innovations in the SAP
Cloud for sustainable enterprises solution. For example the enhanced SAP Product Footprint
Management solution helps customers reduce product carbon footprints at scale.
Further, Taulia announced a partnership with EcoVadis, who will provide ESG ratings for Taulia's
sustainable supplier finance solution. We have also achieved positive milestones around diversity.
For example, women in management have increased further to 28.8%. Demonstrating further
positive impact, our SAP.iO Foundries has achieved its goal of supporting 200 companies in its
portfolio that are managed or founded by underrepresented individuals earlier than expected.
So in conclusion, the results of this quarter once again prove that our strategy is resonating,
confirmed by our current cloud backlog performance. In our discussion with customers, we are
clearly seeing that they look to strategic investments in technology to help them solve their most
pressing business imperatives. We are now ready to capitalize on our substantial growth
investments of the last 18 months by delivering sustained growth and profitability expansion. This
makes us confident that we are making strong progress towards our mid-term ambition. And
based on our strong cloud momentum and favorable currency development, we expect to
provide an update to our ambition in the upcoming quarters.
Thank you. And we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Operator, please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). We will now take our first question from `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America from
Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi, good afternoon. Fred from Bank of America. Two questions please. One is around what's
driving the change around license deceleration, any specific end markets size of clients that you
can point to and what has changed versus to one when you gave that unchanged guidance
considering we already had a fair amount of concern on end markets?
And secondly, if you can touch around pricing. We have a high inflationary environment across
your geography. Can you share with us the actions you're taking to pass that on to a degree. And
if you can split that between cloud maintenance and license? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `Yes, so let me first take the question right away on pricing. And indeed, I mean what we are
seeing is also across the world high inflation, and of course increasing cost. But at the same time
what we're also having a very sticky cloud business. And with that actually of course, we will -- we
are planning to offset some of these cost increases we will see with additional price increases.
And we are just in the planning for that, and we will release our new price schedule then in the
upcoming weeks and months. But definitely of course we will and have to react to this inflationary
pressure and maybe Luca you can comment on the profit outlook.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, absolutely. So first of all, in terms of the momentum that we are seeing on the software
license side and I will invite Scott also to make some comments around that. I mean, we were
always in our planning for the full year, even on normal conditions we were assuming a negative
software license performance in Q1, given that the prior year Q1 was very strong with double-digit
growth. And so, that was for us back then not a strong signal of something deteriorating
fundamentally. What we see now in Q2 is actually on the one hand, a strong acceleration of the
transition to the cloud that you see us in a very strong S/4HANA results that Christian has talked
about. And that is not to the detriment of the total order entry for S/4HANA as Christian has also
said with clearly more than 30% growth combined across cloud and on-premise, we are clearly
gaining market share here. But the shift has become really more pronounced. And that's why we
had the decline of 38%.
And it's a combination, I would say, of this accelerating shift because in the current environment
the customer preferences for OpEx versus CapEx investments is clearly further increasing. And
certainly in some markets also macro concerns. Broadly speaking, I would say, and Scott perhaps
you can add some flavor on it, we see a very constructive demand environment in Americas and
in Asia. In Europe, it's a little bit of tale of two cities, the closer you get to Russia and Ukraine, so
in our Middle and Eastern Europe region there we clearly see a lower kind of conversion of
pipeline to actual closings, and the rest of Europe was actually very solid quarter as well in
particular on the cloud side of the house.
So when you take all of this together indeed after Q1, we left our guidance unchanged because
we were focused on our ability to absorb the impact from the Russia exit as a direct impact. And
when you take a look at that we have now reduced our guidance for operating profit at the
midpoint by EUR250 million. The impact from Russia is actually EUR350 million alone. So we are
actually absorbing a good part of that. But you see now the indirect impact of the stronger shift
from on-prem to cloud that comes along with it outside of Russia, and that is something that we
have now come better to appreciate. And therefore it made sense for us to de-risk the outlook
for 2022. But we now feel very confident that this outlook is safe and supports the continuation of
the shift that we have seen in the first half to also extend into the second half.
Perhaps Scott any color or commentary around the momentum and also this shift that you're
seeing in the market.
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yes, sure, Luka. In addition to what you described around the shift from the CapEx, the OpEx and
the market conditions, what we've seen in the market since the launch of RISE is the willingness of
companies to move their mission critical workloads to the cloud run by SAP. You now take the
current environment, the need of a safe, secure, reliable, scalable platform that allows them to
accelerate and grow is more relevant than ever, which means the demand continues to increase
for RISE with SAP and S/4 in the cloud, but that correspondingly means the demand combinedwith the other factors that Luka described has reduced. And we can see that as a validation of the
strategy and acceleration of the strategy.
So whether you're Baker Hughes oilfield or ABB Information Systems or the Defense Logistics
Agency or many others, these big organizations, let alone the 60% net new customers, their
acceleration to move to a platform that they're looking at not for one year, two year, three years,
they're looking five years, ten years out in their decisions that they're making here and they're
looking for that scalable cloud platform. So I see it is a positive, but it is certainly an accelerated
shift.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Thank you. And we'll take the next question please.
Operator
Next question from `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research (Europe) from Citigroup. Please go ahead.
Q - `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research (Europe) `
Thank you. Hello, everyone. `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research (Europe) from Citi. Two questions if I may. My first question is
with regards to the cloud momentum in the context of macro. Now you've talked about obviously
strong secular drivers underpinning your portfolio. But if there was to be a stronger recession
going into 2023, do you have any views on how do you think your cloud growth is likely to trend?
What is the sort of discussions you're having with customers? Yes, they see a need for it today,
but do you see that changing going forward? And the reason I ask this is because typically in the
past recessions that we have had, cloud was a small part. So would be keen to know your
thoughts on the same.
And the second question I have is with regards to your operating margin performance, we have
seen two quarters in a row where the strength in the cloud seems to have been offset by a
weaker-than-expected operating margin outcome. Can you talk about what drove it on the OpEx
side, particularly the sales and marketing expenses. And if you see merit in potentially giving
better maybe quarterly guidance on operating margin as we go forward to reduce this lack of
understanding? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, so let me take the first question on the outlook for cloud for the second half, but also for
2023. And of course when you have conversation these days with our customers, I mean, first
what we clearly can confirm is that our cloud pipeline compared to three months ago actually
increased. So we see stronger demand. And why is that? It's not necessarily only the move to the
cloud. When you talk about SAP, and when you talk about RISE with SAP, it's about, you know, is
the CEO willing now to stop the business transformation of a car manufacturer or for retailer or
utilities, the answer is clearly, no. They want to continue full-speed to build more resilient digital
business models when it comes to new license model, when it comes to more intelligent pricing,
quoting, when it comes to re-skilling the workforce. This is all SAP, this is all RISE with SAP and
there is no slowdown.
The second one, of course when we look into our portfolio and into the pipeline, oftentimes
these days companies see less of a demand challenge but a huge supply chain challenge. So also
there, it comes to resilient supply chain. So SAP Business Network, what can we do with IBP with
our leading supply chain solutions to make these supply chains more resilient. Also there thepipeline is up, and then when you -- utilities, oil and gas, and others, of course everyone wants to
also transform into a more sustainable enterprise. And there we have new technology, we are
offering a green ledger. And also that is of high demand. So when you would ask me today, we
see a very robust pipeline. I see also no signs of a slowdown in the cloud with regard to our SaaS
portfolio, with regard to our PaaS portfolio. So on that side, we are very confident.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and perhaps just to complement this with two factors. Let's not forget that many of SAP's
stronghold industries, I think will not so much be subject to recessionary risk. I mean, we have the
E&G industries obviously as a stronghold, we have pharma as a stronghold, with Moderna what
we have seen now. We have all of the others essentially as well, we have retail as a stronghold.
So I think that gives us also good support in addition to the strength of the portfolio. And the
other point is the backlog as well. As I've talked about I think now for a number of quarters, not
only do we see a significant surge in our current cloud backlog and the continued strength there,
we actually had significantly higher growth rates in terms of Cloud TCV than the annualized
contract values for a long time now since the advent of RISE with SAP.
And so, this gives us already a very strong coverage through what we have contracted and what
will come in guaranteed into the current cloud backlog of future quarters. And of course also into
the revenue line, and that's an additional safety net that you don't necessarily already see in the
current cloud backlog.
Now quickly on your operating margin topic result, I think that's a valid point. But we have started
actually since the beginning of the year, I've already given some commentary around seasonality
including actually also the impact that we have to expect from Russia in Q2. And I am happy to
expand on this. First of all in the quarter, in the first half year, you are absolutely right, the sales
and marketing ratio has been significantly up, why? Because we have front-loaded investments
and we were always clear about that. I said that on the Q4 call that we have to expect negative
profitability in the first half and then improvements in the second half year. You want to actually
have your territories covered so that you can drive for the strong growth that we have expected,
and that's exactly what has happened.
So we added almost 3,800 heads on the go-to-market front year-over-year in the first half year.
And obviously that comes with incremental expenses there, but that was planned and that will
actually moderate in the second half year and certainly for 2023, we expect a further reduction in
the sales and marketing ratio. Let's also not forget that COVID is pretty much behind us when it
comes to customer engagement. So on the marketing side of the house, we have returned to
physical events with Sapphire coming back. Yes, it costs a bit more than a purely virtual event, but
I can ensure you, that it also drives significantly more pipeline. And so, from that perspective,
that's a worthwhile investment that we see -- we will see the pay off on with the continued
momentum on the revenue front.
So, I think it's important that I use this opportunity to give you then also some more color
commentary around how you should think about the second half year. I mean, on the CCB and on
the cloud revenue side, it's essentially pretty much what I shared also as expectations in our Q1
call. And after Q4, so we continued to believe that we will exit the year with CCB growth rate that
is similar to the one that we saw in Q4, 2021. I am also reasonably confident that we will be able
to absorb the impact of Russia as a part of that. And it should be a pretty steady road from here
on, that we see in the second half year.
On the cloud revenue front, it's quite similar. So you should expect quite stable growth from whatare still expecting negative operating profit. And then a return to positive operating profit in Q4
making then the room for the return to double-digit growth in 2023. Why is that so?
Well, first of all, because as we said the front-loaded investments that we made, means that we
will start to scale profits in particular towards the end of the year, we will have really digested the
impact of the war in Ukraine in Q4. In particular we will have released most of the employees that
we still retain in Russia by then. And that will of course be relief on the operating profit line as
well. The comparables on the expense side will become a lot easier because last year Q4 we
had already very significant hiring and significant investments in pipeline generation and so on as
well as we anticipate close of our pending divestiture in Q4, and that will of course provide help.
Please remember, last year we had the Fioneer joint venture set up in Q3. And of course, we
don't have a comparable event in Q3 of this year. Hopefully that helps to understand the dynamic
a bit better.
Q - `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research (Europe) `
Thank you, Christian. Thank you, Luka.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Next question please.
Operator
Next question from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, afternoon Christian, afternoon Luka. Thanks so much for taking the question. Just first of all
maybe on the assumptions for the second half on the profitability side. I mean, you've alluded to
the shift to cloud and macro having an impact. Are you basically assuming a continuation of the
situation in the second quarter, ie, a little bit of weakness in parts of Europe, getting the licenses
and that continued cloud strength also impacting licenses for the second half or have you also
made the assumption that as more macro cycles go that weakness could spread to other parts
of Europe and maybe some other parts of the world on licenses. And so there's a little bit of
incremental caution. So just in terms of what you're assuming, particularly on the macro side for
second half of this year.
And then maybe secondly, as we look forward into next year, again I think most investors I speak
to are expecting the recession or certainly a slowdown. Could you maybe just talk a little bit about
how you would manage the cost through that maintaining investments versus as you say, already
starting to focus on discretionary spend. And is there a level of growth where it would be
impossible for you to grow at double digit next year as the current guidance suggests? Thank
you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, let me take this. So, first of all, on the second half guide, yes, we -- actually we don't see the
software license to cloud transformation only happening in parts of Europe. This is actually
something, which is already happening at a global level. And we expect in our guidance that it will
continue to happen at the same pace as what we have seen in Q2. And obviously against this, we
are running already with our cost flex program and productivity program that you have alluded to.
And that of course means that we are taking out expenses in discretionary areas. We havethis down. And because we have actually already made the significant moves with close to 5,500
additional employees in the last three quarters. And so, we are well set up to continue to
capitalize on the growth opportunities without kind of adding on the investment front to the same
extent.
The only exception here would be the continuation of our cloud delivery harmonization program,
which is well underway now. We have a very clear line of sight now that will complete in the first
half and then we'll make room to yet another significant step up in cloud profitability. So from that
perspective, we feel that we are appropriately covered, that the guidance is safe now because
what we saw in Q2 on the license side was not confined to only parts of Europe, but was actually
a broad-based trend that we saw.
And in 2023, look, I mean, we have said that we are committed to a double-digit growth over the
2022 numbers because that question might be asked -- let me answer it proactively right away.
Yes, and that would also include the divestiture. So whatever one-time gain we derived from that
in 2022, we would build off the double-digit growth for 2023 on that basis. Frankly we see
ourselves set up very well with the investments that we have made now. We certainly don't see
the need for additional investments in 2023 at the same levels of headcount increases as we saw
in the last two years to drive for those numbers. And there will be a very significant natural benefit
from the ending of the cloud delivery harmonization program.
Just to give you a view here. In Q2, we had more than EUR100 million in investments tied up in
the cloud delivery harmonization program. They expect similar amounts in the second half year
once this has tapered off. Of course that is already a very big help. So I would say, if we continued
to assume a difficult, but not a doomsday macro environment for 2023, we're extremely
confident that we will drive for the double digit growth.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
And Adam, maybe also just let me summarize it from a strategy perspective. When we look back,
I mean, we started this transformation 2.5 years ago, and Scott, I guess it's fair to say that last
year it took a bit of time until really RISE took off. And we had good software quarters, a bit better
than expected. Now this year also because of the macroeconomics, we're actually a bit below
plan. But what we see is now on the cloud, we have a super resilient business. I mean, once
you're going into this project and you're moving the ERP to the cloud, you're transforming, you
are not going away, (inaudible) are super high. And also the backlog now we built up with the
platform, Nestle just celebrated a BIGO Live. Now we are co-innovating on the platform building
new apps surrounding the core.
So, we see new businesses also for the customers we already closed. If you would have asked
me two years ago, will all line of businesses go double digit? Not all were in the shape and form
of today. Also that one super resilient now, good quos, gaining market share back in
procurement, success factor, the core is developing really well. And now with the, you know, the
little bit weaker software license business, I mean, for 2023, that gives us a higher recurring
revenue share, that gives us even more confidence that we're going to make the double-digit
operating profit growth because we are actually clearly on plan, if you take out Russia on the
profit side, we have a more resilient, more recurring revenue base and the cloud actually
performs well ahead of plan, I would say.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And perhaps just a last comment, you see that resilience also in our support revenues, which aredeclines. So also their the stickiness is extremely high. And we have actually again had very, very
nice multipliers in terms of software support to cloud conversions, actually this quarter around the
3x mark, which is quite remarkable. And I don't see this going away or changing anytime in the
foreseeable future either.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks for the details. That's very helpful.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Thank you. We'll take the next question please.
Operator
Next question is from `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, thanks for taking my questions. And Christian you were very clear on the strong pipeline on
the cloud side, but then if we look at Qualtrics and also some other software peers, there is a bit
of commentary that deal cycles are maybe lengthening and things -- it's tougher to get decisions
done really. So I just wanted to check with you, I mean, is Qualtrics really the exception here in
your portfolio? And are you pretty confident that deal cycles are not lengthening in the rest of
trial portfolio from what you see right now?
And then second question just for Luka, given the cloud investments are not really going to
expand further into the second half, how should we think about the cloud gross margin
trajectory? I mean, can we stay around that 72% level into the second half or how should we think
about that? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, let me start with the Qualtrics question and (inaudible). I mean with Qualtrics, the last two
years we built more and more integrated (inaudible) packages how we call it, where we can
embed Qualtrics into business processes of our core applications. And you have seen how they
have accelerated their growth. They are still on a high growth. And in the second half of the year,
further packages will come, the integration on the product side, we will launch a few more
scenarios around RISE for EIT, where you can track and trace how is the sentiment with regard to
the transformation. We're going to built in Qualtrics into our procurement portfolio, so high
growth areas where we see a lot of opportunities to attach Qualtrics.
So actually I am very confident. The deal cycles, when I look at RISE and S/4HANA, let's start with
the flagship product. The conversations are now going more around, I have certain parts of my
businesses where I see huge optimization potential. Yeah, so can we go on procurement faster?
What can we do on billing a automation, I want to launch new OpEx related license models.
Christian, can we move into that angle? Okay, fair. We are very flexible commercial wise in RISE,
let's go into these areas first. A delay, maybe a shift of priorities, yes, but not a delay. And again,
it's very important, we are not only doing here a shift to the cloud. Only with the shift to the cloud,
I would say, maybe the business case will not look as strong in such a macroeconomic time. But
with everything around with the resilience which comes with our products, this is not a discussion
yet to stop any kind of deal cycles or actually delaying projects. And so, this is where I'm also
gaining a lot of confidence just talking by my -- to my peers. Scott?A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yes, look, I just give you a bit more color to what you described, Christian. The first is, we are not
just moving workloads, we're enhancing capabilities. And when they choose SAP, they're choosing
an enhanced capability, they need a business that can manage inventory levels at different than
what they did before. They go from just in time to just in case. They are moving the ability to be
able to manage multiple supplies in real time because of disruptions to their supply chain, that's
an enhanced capability. So what we are seeing in the deal cycles at volume is a sharper
prioritization about the transformation plan, which is exceptionally good because that means
we're very clear of what outcomes need to be delivered in the cloud by when. But it is not about
delay of deal cycles, it's more about sharper transformation plans, which of course RISE with SAP
brings as a part of the service.
So that would be an overall statement. And it obviously then between all of the different
categories, which are all growing at that double-digit growth, each of them will have a sharper
business priority because businesses need to be clear about the outcomes that they're giving,
that gives us confidence because even in good times, SAP is strong, but in difficult times we're
even stronger.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, and just to add on that then to answer the question on the cloud margin. So first of all, I'm
very pleased with the progress that we have made in 2022 despite the headwinds from the
increasing investments in the cloud delivery harmonization program. The 2.3% cloud margin
increase was actually a bit more than I would have expected. So we are now ahead of plan. And
when I take a look at the second half year, the investments will further slightly increase in the
second half year. But on the same side, I mean, the cloud revenue growth is also very strong.
So while I have at the beginning of the year said that we will look at a flattish cloud margin
development for 2022, I think it's now likely that we will end up with a slight increase in the cloud
margin already in 2022. And then obviously with the investments tapering off in the first half year,
actually our cloud exit margin end of 2023 should be significantly higher than the 72% that you're
highlighting or that you have been asking about. The more important topic is that our absolute
cloud profit is actually getting more and more ahead of our original planning, because of the
success in our cloud momentum and the great success of S/4HANA in particular. And I think that's
the bigger story to watch out for. And one that we are certainly ahead in terms of where we
thought we would be from a mid-term ambition perspective as well.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Very good. Thank you. Next question please.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Very clear. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Yeah.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please goQ - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, thank you very much. I have two questions please. The first one maybe for both Christian
and Scott. As we look at SAP sort of cloud portfolio, it's pretty broad. And I will be curious to
understand the more kind of defensive lower ASP aspect of the mix of the portfolio versus
perhaps more discretionary aspect. I know S/4HANA momentum is pretty strong right now. But if
we were to move to a more cautious or even a more severe macroeconomic scenario next year,
how do you sort of assess the risks of the different sort of pieces of the discretionary versus the
more defensive aspects of the portfolio going forward and impacting kind of backlog growth and
revenue growth in the cloud?
And then the second one was for Luka, you know you talked about kind of the heavy investment
this year, but as we think about cost flex, you know, in the past SAP has shown a significant ability
to reflect cost to protect margin. So in the context of your sort of expected double-digit EBIT
growth next year, how do you sort of see the scope to kind of flex the cost base to kind of hit
that target even in the absence of say, with growth slowing? Thank you.
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
So maybe I'll start, Christian. And then you add comments. So on the first question around the
portfolio and what's discretionary? The interesting businesses have different views about what's
discretionary and what's not, but I'll try to give it at a macro level. First of all, this is one of the
advantages of SAP in our breadth of our portfolio. We're one of the only organizations, I would
argue, the only company that is able to provide solutions that are able to enhance the customers,
whether it's solving employee challenges and retention of their workforce, whether it'd be
solving their supply chain disruptions, whether it be about managing their green line,
sustainability, managing their contingent labor. So our breadth really helps us because each
business will be faced with specific challenges, but through the relationship they can expand.
Having said that, what we are seeing is the macroeconomic situation. Christian speaks a lot about
the ability to be able to manage your supply chain disruptions, your ability to be able to source
and manage your supplier base in a very diverse and real-time environment, they are consistent
and strong. And so, the core part of the portfolio we see really strong demand and pipeline
going forward. And I don't expect that to change because even in a difficult environment, those
needs become more apparent than ever. But then within the other parts of the portfolio, for
example, some businesses are much more focused on the core HR operations, which success
factors provides, but they might not look at discrete solutions that they would consider to be
discretionary. So they focus a lot more on the core capabilities, if they've got decisions to be
made about finite operational OpEx spend.
What I would say is clear, in past macroeconomic difficult environments or uncertainty, there was
always pressure on IT spend. I do not expect that to be the same as in go-forward. Technology
spend continues to be a priority for companies as they need to be able to resist and manage the
disruption and take advantage of opportunity. And that's why our pipeline continues to look
strong across the portfolio and gives us confidence in the outlook.
Christian?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And I mean, when you look into a business case justifying to do RISE with SAP, obviously there is
always a point on how can we outsource certain parts of IT, how can we outsource the one sidemakes the move to the cloud more needed. But then second as Scott just said, I mean, I give you
real-time example, yesterday now with Samsung and other players in the semiconductor industry,
we are now moving them with RISE with SAP, not only to the cloud, but we're actually building a
very resilient supply chain. We are moving them to the network where they find millions of
suppliers and buyers also for their industry, and then we are building a resilient supply chain.
And these are the scenarios, which especially in these times are so crucial. So it's about move to
the cloud, but even more important, it's about resiliency, it's about automation to offset some of
the margin pressure and supply chain challenges our customers are facing.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, just finally on the cost flex scope that you have discussed. I mean, as we have proven on
past occasions that you have rightfully pointed out, if we really had a severe downturn situation to
manage, we have certainly scope for easily finding a mid to high triple-digit million euro in savings
across different expense line items in terms of reduced head count growth and third-party
expenses and other discretionary expense items on top of what we anyway will see with the
dissolution of the cloud delivery harmonization program. So we have of course significant scope
to manage the bottom line in line with our commitment.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Next question please.
Operator
Next question from `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Yes, and thanks, good afternoon. Christian, could you just say what you're waiting to see in the
marketplace or your own sort of trend in order to revisit the mid-term guidance? And then,
obviously you're suggesting the cloud transitioned faster, so you're substituting the 87% gross
margin on-premise business with currently for the 72% cloud business. I know, Luka, at Sapphire,
you were adamant that the EUR11.5 billion EBIT in 2025, was well-underpinned even if the mix
changed. I'm wondering if you're happy to re-endorse that today? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, so Michael, what do we actually need to uplift of our guidance? First of all, I would value a
few guys, you know, could value again a bit more the growth in the cloud. And I mean, when I
compare this to a year ago, you know, it was all about the growth of course. We realized the
market sentiment existed [ph]. And look, we always said, it's as three year transformation. And
mathematically, it was always the case that the first two years are bit more difficult on the
operating profit side. But just yesterday, I did the math, if you now take out Russia for a second,
we are even ahead of plan on operating profit. So we are well on plan on hitting our mid-term
ambitions.
Now what do we need to have in order to give a new guidance? I would say, look, let us deliver a
great half year too, let us show that the cloud is very resilient. And if the macroeconomicenvironment stays like it is, let's assume that, then you're going to see us beginning of next year
updating the guidance. And I want to emphasize that, you will not only see an update in the
guidance on the top line, there is of course also then an update to be expected on the bottom
line.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
And this will be a positive update all along, because as I said, it's not only the growth on the cloud
side that is great from a momentum perspective, of course, it's also going to -- at the current FX
levels materially supported by the currency. But this drives also much higher absolute cloud profit.
And at the higher growth rates in the cloud actually that can overcompensate the margin
differential in terms of what it contributes from an absolute profit perspective. And therefore, we
expect our momentum to also flow through to the bottom line. As we said, let's watch how the
performance goes, what the macro does if it stays at the same level. And also of course continue
to prove out performance from a backlog perspective. But then we have all ingredients in place
for an update that will please investors of all tastes, I would say.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. And can I just ask, previously you had a 2023 target, and that was replaced in 2020
with a '25 ambition. We're now in -- going to be in '23 in six months time, would you update '25 or
would you introduce a new mid-term target beyond that?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
No, we would look at updating 2025. And of course, we will give guidance for 2023 that you can
then compare to the -- to the old 2023 guidance. And I would say that probably on the cloud side
will look quite pleasant.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Right. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Thank you. And now we will take one final question please. Thank you.
Operator
Our final question comes from `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research from Bernstein Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you very much for taking my question, squeezing it in. And I appreciate the additional detail
you've given on the call so far. I have two (Technical Difficulty) not too complex questions. The first
is, you've said that roughly 52% of S/4HANA SaaS was new customers, and you're winning in
smaller customers. Can you give us any color on what percentage of the S/4HANA Cloud revenue
is from new customers versus how much of a customer base is?
And the second question is, you -- on return of cash, you've added EUR500 million available to
buy back stocks, how should we think about the share count going forward, especially with the
valuation of the stock being down where it is? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `I can start on the net new. And then Scott, you can build on that. So first our net new customer
share for S/4HANA Cloud is 60%, so 6-0. And what kind of customers are those? Oftentimes I
mentioned it in my comments at the beginning, Doctolib is the Unicorn in France, very successful,
high close, neat scalability, also wants to go expand the business now into other segments. This is
where we are winning net new. We're also winning net new in larger customers. But of course,
much less as ERP is very sticky then of course in the mid-sized or in the unicorn community. But
again, you see it from the share of net new customers, I guess that also shows you what kind of
value the product has to offer if you have such a high share of net new customers.
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yeah, maybe I'll add two comments, Christian, if I can. The first, when we launched RISE, we
obviously had a high proportion of net new, but also mid-sized customers when we first launched
as we scaled out the service. What we've seen increasingly is not only have we improved or
increased the total customers moving to RISE, over 2,000 customers now moving to RISE, 400 in
Q2. But also the proportion of larger customers, which in that mix, so the revenue of the order
entry that you will see on larger customers continues to lift, that gives us obviously optimism in
terms of our outlook, but also the revenue mix as an increasing proportion of large customers.
That's not at the expense of the mid-size. The mid-size customers continue to expand, our net
new customers tend to be mid-sized or the unicorns that Christian mentioned, but the big
companies are now moving at scale to move across as well, which means the revenue mix of
large companies is higher.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, and just start to come back on the share buyback and the share count question. I think it's
important to understand, we are buying back the shares just as we did for the first share buyback
that we did in the first half year, primarily in order to satisfy the equity based compensation plans
of our employees and counter any dilution for our shareholders. So essentially we are not
canceling those shares, and therefore the -- you can expect that the aggregate share count will
remain unaffected. But we make sure that we don't create additional dilution. Why have we
decided to buyback an additional EUR500 million in shares? Well, very evidently we are
committed to continuously refilling our equity pool for the share-based compensation plans. And
it makes sense to do a bit more on that in 2022 given where the share price currently is and that
we strongly believe that it does not underpin the true value of the company and its strategy. So
that's why we decided to accelerate the volumes for 2022.
Outside of that our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. We of course will continue to
invest as is reasonable and necessary in our organic business. So we will continue to deleverage
where it makes sense. And obviously in the current interest rate environment, we will continue to
be committed to that. Then we will pay a attractive dividend also in the future. If we have M&A
opportunities then we can pursue them, when they are tuck-ins or so out of the existing cash flow.
And on top of everything else, if we then have no other uses of course we might continue to
accelerate some share buybacks to fuel the treasury stock for our equity programs for
employees at attractive prices. This is not something I would rule out. But again, it will not result in
a long-term reduction of our share count as it's really meant to offset dilution.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you. That's very helpful. I really appreciate. Congrats.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
And this concludes our call for today. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you everyone for joining.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's conference.