Q1 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the SAP Q1 2022 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is
being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief Investor Relations
Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, and welcome everyone. Thanks for joining us today on our earnings call to discuss
SAP's Q1 2022 results. On our Investor Relations website, you can find the deck intended to
supplement today's call. With me today are CEO, `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; and CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer will make
opening remarks. We also have `Scott Russell, Customer Success who leads our Customer Success organization
joining us for Q&A.
Now let's do the Safe Harbor. During this call we'll make forward-looking statements which are
predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based
on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results and outcomes to materially differ. Additional information regarding
these risks and uncertainties may be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, including but not limited to the risk factors section of SAP's Annual Report on Form
20-F for 2021. Unless otherwise stated all financial numbers on this call are non-IFRS. Growth rates
and percentage point changes are non-IFRS year-over-year at constant currencies. Non-IFRS
financial measures we provide should that be not be considered as a substitute for or superior to
the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that we will hold our Financial Analyst Conference as
part of our Sapphire program in Orlando, Florida on May 11. The event will also be webcast on our
website.And with that, I'd like to turn over to Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Anthony and thanks to all of you for joining us today. To start, I want to address
a topic that has been at the top of everyone's mind for the past two months, Russia's ongoing
unjustified war in Ukraine. Above all, this is a human tragedy on a massive scale. And our hearts
and hopes continue to be with the people of Ukraine. Like other companies globally, we have
been working closely with governments and implementing all sanctions imposed by the
international community. We are also going above and beyond those requirements. We were one
of the first technology companies to stop sales and shutdown cloud operations in Russia. In
addition, earlier this week, we announced a structured exit of our direct presence in the country.
These decisions have a financial impact both on the top and bottom line which Luka will comment
on in more detail. But despite the challenging political and macroeconomic environment, Q1 has
been another successful quarter, and we are eagerly awaiting our 2022 outlook for revenue,
operating profit and free cash flow today.
The war is undoubtedly leaving its mark on the technology sector with the risk of cyber attacks
rising, we see more customers adopting cloud solutions for their mission critical systems.
Geopolitical realities are highlighting the appeal of (inaudible) cloud solutions like the one we
announced (inaudible) in the first quarter for the German government.
And with energy diversification top of mind, our sustainability focus takes on new meaning and
importance, which I will describe in more detail later in my remarks. But first, with all of that in
mind, let's take a look at some of our top line numbers for Q1. Cloud revenue closed further
accelerated to 25% as our cloud transition gains further momentum. Current cloud backlog
continued its strong growth at 23%. This is despite typically lower Q1 seasonality and despite the
impact of our wind-down of cloud operations in Russia. Without Russia, CCB growth would be 0.8
percentage points higher. This has led to current cloud backlog now standing at nearly EUR10
billion.
Current cloud backlog for SAP S/4HANA hit a record 79% growth driven by continued strong
adoption of RISE with SAP, our signature offering for business transformation in the cloud. In Q1
alone we added more than EUR200 million to our S/4HANA cloud backlog. In addition, S/4HANA
cloud revenue growth increased sequentially by 10 percentage points from 61% to a record 70%.
Overall, this strong performance sets us up well for ongoing close in the rest of 2022. In an
increasingly volatile world the unique value of SAP's innovative cloud portfolio continues to be
clear.
Customers around the world continue to power our clouds. As they turn to us for solutions to
future proof their business and make them more sustainable, secure and resilient. And their
transformations are enabling our own. We expect continued acceleration of cloud revenue with
up to 26% close by the end of 2022 reflected in our guidance.
Our strong quarterly performance is another proof point for the strategy we introduced in 2020.
Since then, we have seen the COVID pandemic accelerate cloud-based business transformation
around the world. In new geopolitical realities we face amid Russia's ongoing war in Ukraine, are
also likely to fundamentally reshape the world we live in. Even before the conflict began, supply
chains were under pressure worldwide. And businesses from close service stores to auto
manufacturer (inaudible) with an exponential level of uncertainty in their operations. The tragedy
in Ukraine has amplified these tensions revealing even more clearly the importance of resilient
supply chains across every industries.Companies will need to transition their supply chains to make them more resilient, agile and
transparent. Our SAP Business Network can uniquely help our customers across industries and
value chains in deep ways. The power of the SAP Business Network has also been evident in our
relief efforts to support the humanitarian crisis arising from war. Over 2,700 suppliers have ways
to hand to provide humanitarian support to Ukraine. And the request for over EUR100 million
supplies have already been posted on the network during (Technical Difficulty) just recently, an
acquisition for 300,000 first aid kits.
Turning to fossil fuels, it's clear that the movement toward renewables must accelerate.
Sustainability is now clearly not only an economic opportunity, but a key element of stability,
security and even sovereignty. More than any other software company, SAP is in a position to help
governments and industry manage these changes. The scale and depth of our industry expertise
to transparency of our solutions to drive sustainable business practices. And the ability of the SAP
Business Network to create resilient supply chain, showing the increasing relevance of SAP's
portfolio.
Let's turn to an update about RISE with SAP. RISE with SAP is our signature offering for business
transformation as a service. Since we launched RISE with SAP in January 2021, we have seen
significant increases in customer adoption each quarter. Customers are adopting RISE with SAP
for three key reasons. Firstly, RISE enables them to redesign their end-to-end business
processes, based on best practices develop from working with hundreds of thousands of SAP
customers. Secondly, RISE helps them transition to a new agile ERP in the cloud. And finally, RISE
provides a platform to innovate with industry, custom and sustainability solutions. This quarter we
have seen notable progress with our RISE with SAP offering.
Our business poses intelligence offering with cloud revenue almost doubling year-over-year has
now fully integrated SAP scenario. We are seeing nearly 80% of RISE customers adopting our
business technology platform as part of their RISE solution. Transactional spend on the SAP
Business Network has been growing over 95% year-over-year which will drive further revenue
upside. Overall, RISE with SAP drive strong cost and upsell opportunities. If a conversion ratio in
2021 of greater than 2.5, this means we are creating 2.5 times the value from a customer after
they have adopted RISE. This has led to our revenue run rate for the modular cloud ERP now
exceeding EUR7 billion, up more than EUR1 billion from Q1 2021.
In summary, RISE with SAP enables us to partner even more deeply with our customers. We offer
integrated total solutions with single end-to-end accountability from infrastructure to applications.
The success of RISE with SAP in turn draw strong performance across our line of business
applications.
Together with the cloud momentum I mentioned earlier, let's take a look at our progress. New
RISE with SAP customers included Accenture, Microsoft, Wipro, NEC, Ooredoo and the Citizen
Watch Company. Accenture announced they will be expanding their service [ph] offering to help
large enterprises to drive greater value from running RISE with SAP. They are able to offer
bespoke support by drawing from their own experience of running their core financial operations
on a single instance of SAP S/4HANA.
This quarter Microsoft announced it would become the first public cloud provider to adopt RISE
with SAP internally, utilizing SAP S/4HANA to transform its own SAP ERP deployment. This will
enable Microsoft to deploy new technologies faster and establish best practices that benefit our
joint customers in the market. Accenture and Microsoft together with the Wirpo and IBM, are
examples of the snowball effect from our partners, as they help accelerate the adoption of RISE
with SAP around the world. In March, Ooredoo Group chose to partner with SAP to overhaul theirbusiness and digitize the end-to-end processes to enhance the experience of the customers,
suppliers and employees.
In the increasingly important market for electric vehicles China's Rising Auto and India's Exide
Industries also both shows RISE with SAP. Rising Auto is part of one-off China's largest auto
groups. They selected RISE to support key business processes including forecasting,
collaboration with suppliers and a delivery systems for its electric vehicles. Exide Industries
Limited, one of the world's foremost battery companies selected RISE to support our growth,
including the creation of a large new manufacturing facility. Exide anticipate that their RISE
implementation will help them reduce costs by about 10% and support a better recycling
program a great example, sustainability becoming profitable.
Our success with RISE led to create S/4HANA momentum. We now have more than 5,300
S/4HANA cloud customers and our win weight against competitors was 63% for net new deals.
4,700 of these customers are already live demonstrating the fast time-to-value of these
deployments. Customers this quarter include Heineken and (inaudible) Motorcycles. Heineken,
Europe's largest beer producer with over 300 global brands is transitioning to a new digital core
based on SAP S/4HANA. (inaudible) the global leader in high-performance electric motorcycles
and powertrains has chosen SAP S/4HANA over all vehicle to help them replace their legacy
infrastructure and scale their manufacturing operations to meet rising demand.
Our Intelligent Spend and Business Network portfolio had a particularly strong quarter. National
Health Service, Shared Business Services Corp selected SAP Ariba for its new procurement
system, designed to improve and simplify the engagement with its core and complex supply
chain. Air France-KLM was another win for Ariba this quarter. We also saw continued positive
indications of a return to business travel. With Concur transactional revenue increasing by triple
digits year-over-year. L'Oreal the world leader in beauty has renewed its contract for SAP Concur
for an additional three years because there was it.
Turning to our Customer Engagement portfolio. Salling Group, the largest retailer in Denmark
recently invested in SAP Customer Data Platform and SAP (inaudible). These solutions will help
them improve customer lifetime value and the customer experience. Our SuccessFactors
portfolio continues to win significant business over Workday. Grupo DPSP the leading Brazilian
pharmaceutical retailer expanded its SAP's SuccessFactors portfolio to better manage, maintain
and develop its workforce as part of its overall RISE with SAP or retail implementation.
SAP business process intelligent wins this quarter included Nippon Telegraph, Telephone
Corporation, TELUS Communications and Moderna TX. Moderna's success with their COVID-19
vaccine has transformed the company and they will be using SAP BPI to redesign their business
processes based on the next chapter in their growth.
Our business technology platform continues to go from strength to strength. As customers adopt
BTP, a steep backbone to integrate and extend their SAP solutions. We are well on track to
establish SAP as a platform company with this quarter's revenue run rate for BTP exceeding EUR1
billion.
FEMSA the world's largest bottler for Coca-Cola beverages is adopting BTP to optimize the value
from each of its product and line of business, along with billing and cash handling across its Latin
American markets. Last quarter, I spoke to you about the introduction of SAP Cloud for
Sustainable Enterprises, part of our sustainability portfolio. This portfolio helps companies
manage their green line with as much as importance as the top and bottom line, by providing
radical transparency, insights and data. This quarter we announced an important partnership withBCG focused on helping our joint customer base determined strategies for sustainability
transformation.
Customer adoption of our sustainability portfolio is already strong. So let me we reiterate, that
this quarter strong cloud figures continue to show the strength of our strategy, the relevance of
our solutions and the promise of our portfolio. We are powering fundamental business
transformation for our customers, which in turn is driving our own transformation. We are very
confident in our long-term ambition and we are we reiterating our 2022 outlook. We believe SAP
can play a crucial role in helping our customers succeed in an increasingly volatile world.
Thank you again for joining us today. And let me now hand over to Luka to talk through our results
in more detail.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Christian. And before providing you with additional color on our
results, let me first also express my deepest solidarity with the people in Ukraine. Our support for
the people of Ukraine continues and we have already contributed more than EUR3.7 million so far
to support refugees in the region with more to come in the weeks and months to come. Let me
also mention that we have stopped all sales, started to seize cloud operations and have now
decided to winddown our direct business activities in Russia and Belarus. Despite the impact of
the challenging geopolitical and macroeconomic environment, we are pleased with the results we
delivered in the first quarter.
Let me reiterate some of the key messages you just heard from Christian. We are enabling the
transformation of our customers around the world as they turn to us for solutions to future proof
their businesses and make them more sustainable, secure and resilient. At the same time, they
continue to power our growth and thus enable our own transformation. In the first quarter the
trend towards larger cloud transactions continued. Deals with volumes greater than EUR5 million
contributed 45% of our cloud order entry. That's up from 27% in Q1 last year. This was again
driven by RISE with SAP.
Let me now provide you with some background on the key drivers behind this quarter. Christian
already talked about our ongoing cloud momentum and S/4HANA's record contribution, but also
the impact of the new geopolitical realities. Let me add some color here. In the first quarter, our
current cloud backlog expanded to nearly EUR10 billion and was up 23% despite a 0.8
percentage point headwind from our decision to actively shutdown cloud operations in Russia.
Supported by double-digit growth across our solution portfolio, cloud revenue grew 25% again
accelerating for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Our overall SaaS cloud revenue was up 28%. Within that, our Intelligent Spend business returned
to a healthy 16% growth rate and our remaining SaaS/PaaS portfolio was up even 34%, driven by
outstanding contributions of the business technology platform, Qualtrics and most notably 71%
growth of S/4HANA. Fueled by the growth in our more predictable revenue streams as well as
services revenue, our total revenue was up 7%.
Our cloud revenue performance was excellent across all regions in the first quarter. EMEA
increased by 29%, the Americas by 24%, and APJ by 23%. The U.S. and Germany showed
particularly outstanding cloud revenue performances, with the fastest growth in the U.S. for 2.5
years.
Let's now take a look at the bottom line. Due to revenue mix effects our total gross margin
decreased by 30 basis points to 72%. Our cloud gross margin was up 50 basis points, despiteincreased investments into our next generation cloud delivery program as compared to Q1 last
year. This expansion supported our cloud gross profit growth of 26%. Mainly driven by negative
impacts amounting to approximately EUR70 million related to the winddown of our business in
Russia as well as accelerated investments into research and development and sales and
marketing, our operating profit decreased by 7% to EUR1.7 billion against a very strong prior-year
comparable. Our IFRS operating profit was up 10% to EUR105 [ph] billion, primarily driven by
lower restructuring expenses.
Let me now turn to EPS and cash flow. The decrease in EPS mainly reflects a contribution to
financial income by Sapphire Ventures that was more than EUR300 million lower than last year,
given the current market conditions. Our free cash flow came in at EUR2.16 billion. The year-over-
year decrease is mainly attributable to the development of profitability in the quarter and impacts
from working capital due to our continuous move to the cloud. The ongoing cloud business
transformation provides more balance of cash inflows throughout the year.
We are reiterating our full year outlook of above EUR4.5 billion for free cash flow accordingly.
Considering the impact of Sapphire Ventures to our financial income, we are updating our
effective tax rate guidance for the full year. We now expect an effective tax rate of 28% to 32% in
IFRS and 23% to 27% in non-IFRS terms.
Let's now turn to the outlook. As you have seen in today's release, we are reiterating our outlook
for the full year for cloud revenue, cloud and software revenue, as well as operating profit. That
means that we are taking steps to absorb the expected impact of approximately EUR300 million
on the top line and EUR350 million on the bottom line from the war in Ukraine. This is possible
because of our increased cloud momentum, the initiation of disciplined expense management
measures and the benefits associated with the streamlining of our portfolio, that we expect to
execute in the coming months, as we continue to focus on strategic growth drivers.
Finally, a few words on sustainability and some strategic initiatives. Here I would like to highlight
that we published our 10th integrated report on March 3. We expand the disclosure around non-
financials including enhanced representation of Scope 3 emissions as well as EU sustainable
finance disclosures. We also disclosed the results of our second pilot of the value balancing
alliance methodology to which we contribute as accounting member. To complement our
sustainability management solutions, we have also announced some new partnerships to build on
the combined power of SAP and its ecosystem.
Together with Boston Consulting Group, we have launched a joint transformation offering to
identify the business value and sustainability, setting the right climate ambitions and powering an
actionable sustainability roadmap. And we have joined forces with bearing point to deliver carbon
and environmental footprint solutions, helping accelerate our roadmap in this solution area.
So to conclude, the results of the first quarter improved once more that we are on track. Our
strategy addresses the needs of our customers to become sustainable intelligent enterprises.
We continue to build on our cloud momentum and remain confident in our 2025 ambition.
Before moving to Q&A we are very much looking forward to welcoming you to our Financial
Analyst Conference in conjunction with Sapphire, including I was assured the cocktail reception
that will take place on May 11 in Orlando, and we are looking forward to meeting you there in
person. Thank you.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `Alright. I would like to remind you, to only ask one question at a time. And with that operator,
please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you sir. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays Capital
from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Yes, good afternoon, and thank you very much. And maybe I could start with a near-term
question just around the macro and Russia specifically. You had a couple of comments, clearly
from U.S. business is on -- weaker European outlook, you made some commentary here. But
could you add some context to what you're seeing at the end of the quarter into April? And
specifically on Russia, EUR350 million profit impact on EUR300 million of sales. Can you explain
why the profit impact is so large and whether there is a one-off element here that comes back in
2023? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Do you want to do financial impact and then the business impact the macro -- maybe with
Scott.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly. That makes sense. So indeed, I mean, the question is fair, why is there a bigger profit
impact than a revenue impact. Obviously, you would normally expect when you have a revenue
impact some savings and variable expenses flow through and therefore you would have a lower
impact on profits. However, a significant share of the impacts that we expect on the expense side
are actually from a compression of multiple period expenses into the current year, 2022. To
explain, when we for example, decided to discontinue our cloud data center operations, we had
to actually accelerate the amortization of our data center assets because the useful life is
obviously much shorter than originally anticipated and recognize this as expenses. So this is the
primary expense impact that has contributed to the EUR70 million that we experienced already in
Q1.
Now, in Q2, we will have a similar impact, but actually at a larger scale in terms of an accelerated
amortization of sales commissions. We capitalize and then amortize our sales commissions for
past sales over a period of time dependent on the business model. And given that we are also
now looking at discontinuing our direct support and maintenance operations in Russia, we will also
have to adjust here the useful life of the contracts and therefore also the capitalization and
amortization period of sales commissions.
In addition, we have also an impact on bad debt expenses, some of which are coming from prior
periods, that we will have to recognize. For example, with sanctions -- customers, that's the
reason why the impact on profit is actually higher than the impact of revenues and an over-
proportional amount of that will actually have to be reflected in Q2.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, and on the macro side, I mean, of course, there is no headwind coming from Russia. But I
mean, we are reiterating our guidance which is actually then given there is a 350 million hitactually. We are in essence actually waiting our guidance now to absorb this hit. And why do we
do this? I mean, first and foremost, what we see also in Europe, as a high demand still in the
market for ongoing business transformation. So customers now moving more than ever to new
business model, selling, services, resilient supply chains of course of high demand. You have seen
the transactions in our SAP Business Network went up by 95% year-over-year.
The first discussion I have especially with (inaudible) CEOs is all around how can SAP help to make
supply chains more resilient like we did (inaudible) in the automotive and we have now further
examples on the semiconductor, we have further examples in life science and so on. And then
last but not least, of course, when we are now moving in with RISE, you have heard about the
conversion rates and we are seeing more and more an uptick also in our auto line of business
solutions. Needless to say, Scott, I guess, we can say, we are absolutely confident and very bullish
about our pipeline for RISE for the rest of the year. But what we're also seeing is with the platform
and the needs and the revenue run rate of EUR1 billion and an uptick of the ecosystem now
building extensions on the platform. This all makes us very, very confident that we can even
further accelerate our top line momentum.
Scott, anything to add?
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yeah, I think you said it well, Christian. The one thing that I would add in simple terms, these
businesses and companies in Europe and in fact around the world need a business platform to
navigate uncertainty, that's SAP. Leverage SAP, because we're able to provide real-time capability
to deal with the regulatory change. We're able to deal with the cybersecurity challenges, we're
able to deal, help them deal with their supply chain challenges and other factors of uncertainty
that Christian mentioned. And that underpins not only the move to the cloud, but the move to
transform and that's what RISE with SAP brings. So that's been reflected in our pipeline and in our
confidence that despite some of the challenges we see in the world, companies are actually
coming more to SAP, because they need a business to be able to help them transform and run in
this environment going forward. And that's what we're strong at.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Alright. Thank you.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Thank you very much.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Take the next question please.
Operator
The next question from `Toby Ogg, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Toby Ogg, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Could you just give us Luka maybe for you, just give us a
sense for the magnitude of the cloud gross margin headwind from the harmonization investment
in Q1. And then secondly, just as we look a little bit further out into 2023 and the moving parts on
the cloud gross margin. Can you give us a feel for the size of any potential impact to costs thatpersist into the first half of 2023? And then just give us a feel for what you think the right cloud
gross margin level would be, given those costs, but also the higher portion of single-tenant
S/4HANA in the mix? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks very much for the questions. So first of all, the cloud margin impact of the
harmonization program in Q1 was actually quite sizable as we said, it increases -- has increased
over time quarter-over-quarter. And itself for Q1 it has been 1.4 percentage points. So in other
terms -- in other words, without these expenses, the cloud margin would have been up by close
to 2 percentage points in Q1. In terms of the go forward plan, actually in 2023, of course, a
significant part of the cost run rate that we are seeing now in 2022 and 2022 has a higher run rate
than 2021, in that respect will go away, it will disappear. I would say we will have less than half of
those expenses, still in place in 2023, as we run-off the program in the first half year, with the final
retirement of our legacy infrastructures and the decommissioning. So think about a low triple-digit
million, a number as opposed to a significantly more than EUR200 million, that we will have in
2022.
And then in the second half of the year in particular, there will be a significant step-up also due to
the increased efficiency of that cloud infrastructure. So as we had predicted all along, we will see
an exit cloud margin rate in 2023, that will be significantly above the current levels that we see,
where we've always said that in 2022 the cloud margin development will be rather flat. And so in
terms of the further progression, there is no doubt that our profitability in the cloud business will
materially increase. At the same time, I have to say we are ahead of the growth curve as well and
that is also predominantly fueled by the great success of RISE with SAP, which comes along with a
great uptick in S/4HANA cloud and also private cloud deployments That's true. But those are
quite profitable as well. So all of this and the progress in the cloud harmonization initiative that we
have achieved so far make us very confident around our 2025 ambition, in particular, as far as the
absolute contribution of cloud profits to our overall operating profit commitment and ambition is
concerned. So this is on a very positive part.
Q - `Toby Ogg, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. We'll take the next question please.
Operator
The next question from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. `
Hi, good afternoon. Christian, Luka, thanks very much for taking the question. And just first of all,
coming -- asking on current cloud backlog, I know Luka you flagged that this would decelerate in
Q1. I wanted to first of all, you could just confirm that you'd still be expecting this to accelerate
back similar to or above the fourth-quarter levels. Maybe you can give us any kind of background
on what gives you the confidence that would happen that would be really useful.
And then secondly just on the outlook through the year, we're obviously nervous about macro
and around the geopolitical situation. Could you just talk a little bit about the plans in terms ofmore cautious, with the focus be on making sure that the business was in good place to grow in
'23 or would it be to protect the EBIT guidance for this year? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think that's probably for the most part the question to me, but Christian, feel free to
chime in. So first of all, indeed, I mean, when we think about the trajectory on the current cloud
backlog it's exactly as we had said on Q4 earnings, we expected slightly slower start in Q1, just
due to the fact that the sheer business volume in terms of new bookings that we can move in a
Q1 is always the smallest. And therefore we had actually expected a deceleration now, of course,
we did not have the Russia effect in our cards. But otherwise this is exactly as expected. But on
the flip side, we absolutely continue to believe that we will see now -- from now and already
starting in Q2, an acceleration again. And we absolutely believe that we will end the year with the
similar growth profile last year we had 26% in Q4 and we expect the same actually also for Q4 in
2022. The reason why that is fairly simple, first of all in Q1, again the lower volumes and we had
an absolutely spectacular Q1 2021 driven also by some catch-up effect quite frankly from the first
phase of the pandemic. Q1 2022 was very good and strong from a bookings perspective, but
compared to this very spectacular outcome, we always knew that it would be hard to top this.
In Q2 and in Q3 in particular, we face an easier compare. And based on what I see in terms of the
pipeline build-up and the strength there, we are very confident that we will see the acceleration.
So we are very confident about this. In terms of the outlook throughout the year and the
(inaudible) it's very important for us to make sure that we achieve both objectives. We of course
want to make sure and that we meet our commitment in terms of the guidance. But at the same
time, certainly don't want to sacrifice our focus on growth. In order to do this, first of all, we have
already significantly invested. You have seen that in Q1 we onboarded another round about 2,400
employees, about 400 came from the acquisition of Taulia, the rest roughly 2,000 are organic
hires, with clearly biased towards R&D and sales and marketing. Headcount, this will slowdown for
the remainder of the year. It also makes a lot of sense in sales and marketing. For example, to
back-end loads, hiring's at the middle of the year because you would need to have these folks
productive towards the end of the year, to drive business. We have costs prudent when it comes
to discretionary expense, is no doubt about that.
We are also taking a hard look at our portfolio as we always do, as we have done for a number of
years now, to identify areas that can be de-emphasized because they're not strategic to our
growth from a longer-term perspective, and in order to focus our resources on the highest
growth potential areas. In that context, you have seen us in the past few years doing smaller
divestitures that is something that we are looking into, as well the impact of any such divestiture
will not be significant. And perhaps in the low triple-digit million euro range, but that is something
that is possible to happen in the second half of the year as well.
Then perhaps a few words around the profile of the business as we move through the quarters. I
think we have also been clear already without the Russia impact that the first half year in terms of
year-over-year profit development would be more challenging than the second half year,
because last year that was a much better performance so to say, driven by the fact that we had
the pandemic still fully in place Q1 for example at 24% operating profit growth last year. So it isn't
a surprise for us that for example, in Q1 this year we had negative profit development. Actually
we did better than plan without the Russia effect. So that is good.
For Q2 as I said, I expect that an over-proportional amount of the expense impact out of these
EUR350 million will be recognized. We will also recognize a big part, if not the entirety of the
restructuring charge in Q2. So therefore Q2 will be most affected by the situation around the war.And then in the second half year, as first of all, the comparables are getting easier. We are seeing
the fruits of the investments that we have made early on in the year and we continue to harvest
the great strength of our cloud business. That's where the profit levels will significantly claim back
and that's why we are confident that we will remain within the guidance.
And on the cloud revenue side, look, it's also similar to what we said at the beginning of the year,
we expect continued acceleration in particular in the second half of the year, when the full
strength of the great backlog expansion that we have seen in Q4, including the further business
that we have booked in the first half of the year is coming to fruition. In Q2, you might see a small
blip there in terms of the growth rates, because they are for the first time, then the impact from
the cloud discontinuation in Russia that you have seen in the current cloud backlog in Q1, will then
start to show in the cloud revenue figures. But again from second half and full year effect, this will
be fully overshadowed by the strength of our business at a global level. And so we absolutely
believe we will see continued acceleration in the second half year.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. `
That's very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Take the next question please.
Operator
The next question from Stacy Pollard from J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stacy E. Pollard, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thanks very much. Really this is a follow-up a little bit on your comments around the seasonality of
EUR350 million and the other restructuring and kind of how you think of the operating profit or
operating profit impacts through the quarters. But also is there a continuing impact on the base
going into 2023? Or do you catch up and kind of get back on track? So for example, if the base is
a little bit lower EUR350 million lower, let's say in 2022, so we get even better double-digit
growth in operating profit for 2023. Then you might have, I guess the growth goes up, but maybe
the number stays the same, is that you're thinking?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
So first of all, two comments on 2023, because I want to be crystal clear on this. We absolutely
are fully behind our commitment that you will see a double-digit growth in operating profit again
in 2023, that was always our commitment. We said that in October 2020 when we established
the new mid-term ambition framework and the strategy refresh that in 2021 and 2022, we would
see only a flat to slightly declining profit development and then return to double-digit growth.
This absolutely will happen and that remains our commitment and that is obviously of the
guidance that we have been giving for all the flattens to slightly declining profit with a flat to
minus 5, on profit ambition that we had for 2022. And as this is unchanged, also the commitment
for 2023 is unchanged.Now the one thing that I have noted before and that you should take with you obviously is that
the impact that we're having in 2022 from extraordinary expenses is partially a pull forward of
expenses that otherwise we would have seen in later periods, not only in 2023 but also in 2024,
because of the acceleration of the amortization periods for sales commissions. So that is
obviously then translating into a help for 2023 and 2024. And that of course even further ignites
our confidence in being able to drive to that double-digit growth. So in that sense, it is actually a
relief for later years, but we are bearing of course, now the expense load in 2022. I hope that
helps to display the commitment.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe, Stacy, and -- also just to quickly build on that. I mean...
Q - `Stacy E. Pollard, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
No, that's helpful. Yeah.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And with our business actually also transforming our revenue streams are becoming more and
more predictable. Our overall P&L performance becomes more and more predictable and the
way how we now also model this out is, we have strong pipeline multiples in place, which we then
gave us the confidence to actually also reiterate our guidance in the cloud with strong
acceleration in half year two, plus of course also on the profit side. I mean, we know how to
manage then our cost base. We have a plan, how to offset the Russia impact. And then of course
next year going in, we talked about the cloud harmonization program, we know when this effects
will kick in. And then for the West, it's actually a highly predictable revenue combined of course
with a good management of our cost base. That actually will lead into double-digit profit growth
in 2023.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. Alright. We'll take another question please.
Q - `Stacy E. Pollard, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
That's great color. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, good afternoon. Thank you both for taking the question. Two follow-ups please. One, on the
revenue guidance, so you're saying the factor increasing the guidance despite the hit from
Russia. And overall COVID [ph] uncertainties in Europe, so maybe Christian you can spend a bit of
time on the tone of discussions you have with your clients it's fair to say that you're not seeing
any reduction in appetite discussions to post transitions to cloud and mode of projects. And in
general, if you can give us a bit more ammunition on what is actually better than expected.
And then secondly, maybe a question for Christian around -- sorry, for Luka, around cloud
margins. So, I think last year in June you mentioned a step in the cloud gross margins of 75% in2023, towards 80% in '25. Can you confirm that this is still on the agenda and the underlying
assumptions you're taking on business network and SaaS-based margins? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I take the first question, and -- almost every discussion here in Europe, but actually also at the
global scale. And these days one of the biggest topics and this is why we also confident with our
pipeline in the cloud, is the combination of first cybersecurity. We see a huge increase of tax
around the world. And when you look at many customers, I mean, they are not big tech players,
they don't have the investments inside that what other tech players have. And then with RISE
when you then come and say, hey, we're going to protect your stack end-to-end and there is one
party who takes this end-to-end accountability to make sure your data is secure, is a very strong
value proposition.
Second, when you're then dealing with huge supply chain disruptions and a year ago we talked
about semiconductor which is still out there. In the meantime, we are talking about (inaudible) we
are talking about shortages of magnesium of -- in life science we are having a lot of customers
have huge (inaudible) and with regard to the raw material. And this is actually, which is also then
pushing more IT spend.
And then again, we still also see that when you are not transforming your business model, when
you are not offering a more personalized offering for what your customers need in retail, in
utilities when it goes a lot around customer retention. When you are not adapting your pricing
which is all going back to our portfolio, to our technology, then you are going to lose your
competitiveness in the market. And that's together in this sequence I would say, are the
conversations we are having and this is why we also still so confident about our pipeline and our
close momentum.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And just quickly on the cloud margins, so absolutely we still pursue that ambition. I mean,
we have actually reconfirmed it today and that includes of course also the 80% gross margin
ambition for 2025. In terms of the decomposition of the different solution types here, let's start
with the Intelligent Spend Group. I mean, this has already seen a very nice uptick to more than
80% -- 80.7% right now, driven by the revenue recovery in particular in Concur, obviously that
makes a big difference, but again the growth in ISPN [ph] is still only so to say, 16%. So there is a
lot of space for an even further recovery and then those very high margin businesses will actually
further contribute. So post the completion of the cloud harmonization program, in particular for
Ariba, we absolutely expect that also this business will see a further step-up probably to the
levels of 82% to 83%.
The rest of the SaaS/PaaS portfolio is actually were the biggest step-up will occur, that business
is, at the moment bearing the brunt of the corresponding additional cost of cloud investments for
the harmonization program. There is multiple solutions that are affected by this, that's why the
gross margin, there is only around 70, very low-70s dependent on the solution. And so they are,
you should see in the second half year a significant step-up which is good because this is also the
fastest growing part of the business. And then you have an infrastructure-as-a-service business
with its natural margin limitations that will not really significantly further improve beyond let's say
mid-30s. However, we de-emphasized this business consciously as you have seen and as we
have already indicated, the growth is coming down, it will actually at some point turn even
negative. And so from that perspective, in the mix that will be reduced.So the one unknown, that we continue to have, as I already highlighted on prior occasions, is just
the proportion of S/4HANA private cloud in the mix. And therefore the great success of RISE that
is frankly ahead of our plan. We have been -- every single quarter in 2021, ahead of our revenue
plan in the cloud, we are again ahead of our revenue plan in the cloud in Q1 2022. And the reason
is the tremendous success of RISE. So if that continues and therefore S/4HANA private cloud
becomes a far greater part of the overall mix than what was contemplated when we devised our
plan, we might see a situation where we fall slightly short on the margin side. But then we would
overshoot on the absolute cloud profit side and that's why we have started also to break this out
with the tremendous 32% or 26% at constant currency growth. Now that we have seen in Q1 and
we will continue to provide visibility. And therefore from an absolute cloud profit perspective, if
we indeed saw this continued outperformance as of RISE with SAP, that would be a very nice
problem to have, because it would actually provide upsides on the operating profit line.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thank you, Luka. And maybe just one clarification, when you talk about H2 step-up, you talk
about '23, right?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Absolutely. For 2022 as we indicated all along, we should consider a flattish development of cloud
margins, again because the weight of the investment of the cloud harmonization program is quite
significant. 1.4% as I said in Q1, and it will actually further increase over the course of the year.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Many thanks.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. We'll take the next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Michael Briest from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Limited `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Luka and Christian, could you give some context to Luka's planned
departure. And it doesn't seem like it was expected and it was expected by May. And in terms of
succession, the timing around that and the consideration of internal versus external candidates.
And with external any sort of criteria around software expertise, German nationality anything like
that?
And then, Christian, on the corporate call last night the management did suggest that in Europe,
there was a little bit of slippage in order intake. And I'm just curious why you're seeing something
different, especially given that license performance it felt to me that perhaps would have
translated into a stronger cloud backlog number if it was moving from one bucket to another
rather than slippage. So did you see anything in Europe or elsewhere that would fit with Qualtrics
comments? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Perhaps you can get started (Multiple Speakers) my thoughts...A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
(Multiple Speakers) let me also cover your part first, let me share some words here. I mean, there
is no doubt that we -- well, I have always been very happy been very happy, with having Luka
onboard, without any doubt Luka is doing a great job. And Luka and I also now work for some
time together actually, I worked for Luka a few years back. And but when you're doing this, I
guess, for nine years, Luka, now in the meantime, we're going into the ninth year. I mean, it's fair
to say that then also Luka said, hey there is also probably also something else what I can do
going forward. Why I am very happy with is that we still have Luka for the next 12 months, because
we are talking here a lot about the transformation about increasing our profit by double-digit.
And I really want to finish and then of course afterwards continue this journey with Luka on my
side. And this is why I'm very happy to have Luka onboard for at least another year. And then
actually, yeah, the surge has now started, the supervisor will make the final call. Luka is involved,
I'm involved, so I'm pretty sure that we will also have a smooth transition then.
Luka, anything to add from your side?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
No, it's right at the end of the day I've lost my job, I have lost every opportunity to work at SAP
and I will laugh my last year as well and will be very hard to leave SAP. But I have recognized
through all of the work in the last many years, working with customers as well as serving as a
Board sponsor for our businesses in Latin America in the Middle East, in Japan, running now own
businesses with Business Process Intelligence, you have heard that this is actually working quite
well, also now with Taulia, that I have a passion for this. And I would like to expand on this passion
and learn something new as well. So it's more likely that my next role will be in general
management than necessarily in a pure financial background and that's just an opportunity that I
think in a very collaborative fashion, now we have discussed that now is the right point in time.
Also because I want to develop BPI into a state where we can release it to the mainstream
operations of SAP by the end of the year. And therefore it then fused just naturally, but -- and
that's also the reason why, I will stay through March 31st.
I absolutely want to give you that commitment and fulfill the commitment for the return to
double-digit growth on the bottom line in 2023. And that's why I wouldn't miss the opportunity to
give the outlook for 2023 as well. There's not a lot more to be said about that, other than that we
are really doing this in full friendship, otherwise you wouldn't work for another year. The company
and we are going to depart as friends. I will always be a member of the SAP family and on the
best possible terms. So nothing more and absolutely the company will stay on course for its 2025
ambition because it has the right strategy, it has the right operational priorities and it has a great
management team with, but also in the future without me.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And then Michael, on the sentiment in Europe, and I would tell you if I would have heard the CEO
say, we have to scale back our IT budget or we have to postpone certain SAP projects. But in
reality, what we are talking about, I mean, last week we -- I was with a huge semiconductor
supplier for machine so to produce semiconductors at mass scale in Netherlands. And there we
are talking about building a digital twin with Siemens, to further scale the production to help to
cover the rising demand. We thought as we are talking about cyber and how we can protect the
landscape, because (inaudible) on-premise landscape, raising number of attacks and they feelbetter protected and when they are giving this into the hands to SAP and other technology
partners of SAP with RISE.
And then again a lot of customers also just have started with their business transformation. It's
not like that every customer now already finished a business transformation is actually the other
way around. And so -- and there is no CEO who will now say, hey, (inaudible) slowed down the
pace of my transformation, I need this as a foundation. And then let's not underestimate the
power of our platform that now more and more partners are to start to build on that and also the
business network. I mean, it's almost -- I sometimes feel this is a forgotten asset, but in times like
these, there is the Ukrainian example, what we are doing here on the metal supply, there are so
many others, and we see such a strong push into this network, that we really feel this is also a
new way of running businesses and supply chains going forward. And that net-net gives us the
confidence that there will be no reduced demand in half year through, it will be the other way
around.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Limited `
Thank you very much. And looking forward to seeing both in-person next month.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Indeed, including at the cocktail reception.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. And we'll take a couple of more questions, so we can take the next question please.
Operator
The next question from `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore from Evercore. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore `
Yes. Thanks very much Christian. I was wondering if you could add just a little bit more color
around the S/4HANA Cloud Backlog growth this quarter. Just what are you seeing in terms of new
customers versus our transitions from existing customers and any color I guess geographically
would be helpful. Thanks.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
On the geographically if you, Scott please also then support me, I can give you my global fuel
first. It's great to see and that we are winning also a lot of net new deals. I guess only in Q1, it was
roughly over 1,500 net new customers, which we report on Board, so 1,500. This is what other
companies maybe doing a year. And then of course with the conversion when we designed wise,
of course, it was always our intention to speed-up and accelerate the adoption of S/4HANA
cloud, but even more important is the platform, it's the business technology platform. And now
we are seeing in the next wave that we are suddenly winning huge deals against Workday in
SuccessFactors because we can provide this integrated view, this modular ERP which then
provides capabilities like total workforce management. Management mash-up productivity on the
real-time simulate attrition weights and half the impact on the P&L. And now we talk and this is
why RISE provide such a great conversion factor and also allows us to increase our footprint over
time. And come back in fields, which maybe don't have supported so well in the last two years
and this is why also in Ariba, mean procure to pay now sitting on one procurement platform
where you can tailor their needs for direct and for indirect procurement. Connected to thenetwork, having supplier risk management, for new legal requirements, which you have to secure
human right, that there are no human right violations in your supply chain. This is what SAP can do.
And this is what we are doing with RISE. This is where we putting them or enable them to adopt
to this new capabilities, what customers need going forward. And this is actually net new and the
installed base shift for both is really coming in where we well and we are clearly ahead of plan
when I look at our initial RISE plan. Scott?
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yeah. So two additional comments to add a bit of color on what Christian said. First of all, just on
the solution side, so as mentioned the S/4HANA cloud just continues to propel not only the
growth of that at that platform driving the resiliency in the growth and the process transformation
the company's need around the world. But it also then brings in the portfolio. Christian mentioned
earlier that 80% of our S/4HANA cloud brings the technology platform. Businesses, whether
they're in Europe, U.S. or in Asia are looking for scale and innovation and RISE brings both. It
brings the transformation capability best for cloud, but they also get the innovation with the
business technology platform, which means they can extend and be able to win a bite on that.
And that's why it's been such a strong growth driver, together with Signavio being a key element
as well.
On the regional side, I guess, the way I would describe it, it's a good position to be in when
you're not dependent on a particular region or business, all of them are growing strongly, you can
see it in the Q1 cloud revenue that all of them are growing strongly in mid-20s or better. And in
particularly the Americas given the size of that market is particularly pleasing and it's impressive in
the growth rates and including the order of entry in Q1 was really strong considering the market
dynamics. But around the Europe and EMEA and in Asia our pipeline reflects that consistency. So
whilst we had some solutions that will be up and down in a particular quarter or particular market,
overall, the pipeline continues to grow strongly in line with the revenue outlook that we've
described and that's consistent across the world. Which probably gives us a level, a level of
confidence that our capability in the solutions are more in demand than ever considering the
market dynamics. And that gives us confidence going forward.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
And now we will take one final question, please.
Operator
Our final question comes from `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, thanks for taking my question. Look, quite a few economists seem to see a risk of a kind of
broader recession next year on a global basis. Obviously, we don't have a crystal ball, but
Christian you talked to the resilience of the business and the predictability. I think we know how a
good part of SAP behaves in the recession from the past and we also know how the licensing ERPbusiness will behave. But how should we think about the new S/4HANA cloud business to RISE
business from your perspective? I mean, maybe you can talk a little bit, A. from an operational
side, you're saying, customers can even pause or slow these transformational multi-year projects,
is that possible? And then second be just from a financial perspective, how would you expect to
be impacted on that part of the business? Should we really go into recession? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So look, and of course in the conversations concerns come up about and out of rising
inflation and 10 customers really put this inflation and then the increase in their cost base always
on top on the pricing side. But then the next part of the conversation is, can you help me on cash
flow optimization? And then we come into the play where we say, hey, okay, we connect you with
the platform with RISE to our network, to give you access to more suppliers. We have now Taulia
connected to it, where we can hopefully also get better financing conditions. We have actually
good ways with S/4HANA cloud on offering, making sure you can offer much faster new services
with new license models, which also can help you to drive higher customer retention and
hopefully higher prices.
And so these are the conversations, what we are having to offset this increasing pressure, which
clearly is out, I mean, there is no debate about that. But technology can really, really help. And
again, this is so important. We are not only talking here about a technical migration in the cloud
and this is where SAP comes into play. And you can look back, when Brexit [ph] happened, all
other things happened in the past. Always -- it was always there, it was strong demand for better
business software to offset some of these challenges what customers see out there in the
market. And even with the geopolitical tensions, customers now turning to SAP and that's why
also the Russia situation, this is not easy for us. I mean, that we have large multinationals wanting
businesses all over the world and they need solutions and they need solutions now which actually
also drives our business. Why the world becomes more complex? Software is needed to
overcome this complexity. And this is why we definitely don't see a hit on our pipeline, it's the
other way around. We actually see strong multiples and we will remain where we confident, also
about further acceleration of our cloud business.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Helpful. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
And this concludes our call for today. Thanks for joining.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much. Bye-bye.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks a lot, everyone.
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `Thank you.