S1 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you very much for participating in this financial results announcement despite your
occupied schedule. We would like to start the presentation on the Financial Year 2023 Second
Quarter Financial Results.
First of all, let me introduce to you the participants from TMC. The Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer, `Kenta Kon, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; Chief Communication Officer, `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer; the Chief Officer of our
Accounting Group, `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group; Chief Officer of Purchasing Group, `Kazunari Kumakura, Chief Officer, Purchasing Group;
and Deputy Chief Officer, Production Department, `Yoshio Nakamura, Deputy Chief Officer, Production Group.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Yamamoto will share with you the outline of financial
results.
`Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
We would like to express our heartfelt appreciation to our customers around the world who
chose us as well as our shareholders, dealers, and suppliers who support us. And I would like to
express our appreciation for those of you who are participating in this financial results
announcement. At the same time, we sincerely apologize for the inconvenience caused to our
customers who are waiting for their vehicles. We are working to deliver them as soon as possible.
First, let me provide a summary of the second quarter of the fiscal year ending March 2023. The
result for the first half was operating income of JPY1,141.4 billion. The business environment is
changing dramatically such as the rapid changes of foreign exchange rates, rising interest rates,
soaring materials prices and more.
While production constraints continue due to low supply of semiconductors in lockdown in
Shanghai, the flooding in South Africa, et cetera, we worked hard with our dealers, suppliers, and
production sites in order to deliver as many cars as possible to our customers. Operating income
decreased due to soaring materials prices and one-time costs despite the positive effects from
the depreciation of the yen.As for the full-year forecast, it remained unchanged from the previous forecast, so we anticipate
operating income of JPY2.4 trillion. We have revised our vehicle production forecast downward by
500,000 units to 9.2 million units, taking into consideration risks such as the procurement of
semiconductors. We'll continue with our activities to strengthen our profit structure throughout
the supply chain even though we are in a situation in which it is difficult to predict the future due
to rapid changes in the business environment.
In terms of return to shareholders, the interim dividend is JPY25 per share, an increase of JPY1
compared to the previous fiscal year. We have set aside the full amount of JPY150 billion to make
share repurchases in a flexible manner.
Let me explain our financial results for the first half ended September 2022, covering the six
months from April to September. Consolidated vehicle sales for the period was 4.159 million
units, that is 101.6% of the same period of the previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales
was at 4.742 million units, which was 97.7% of such sales from the same period of the previous
fiscal year.
As for the regional sales breakdown, the sales volume decreased in developed countries due to
production constraints, but the sales volume increased in regions such as Asia and others due to
recovery from the impact of COVID-19. Consolidated financial results for sales revenue of
JPY17,709.3 billion, operating income JPY1,141.4 billion, income before income taxes of JPY1,834.2
billion, and quarterly net income of JPY1.171 trillion.
I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. First, the effects
of foreign exchange rates increased operating income by JPY565 billion. Second, cost reduction
efforts decreased operating income by JPY650 billion largely due to the impact of soaring
material prices, which accounts for JPY765 billion. Third, marketing efforts increased operating
income by JPY130 billion. Fourth, an increase in expenses decreased operating income by JPY310
billion. Lastly, we also incurred a negative impact of JPY341 billion largely due to swap valuation
losses and cost to terminate our production in Russia. As a result, excluding the overall impact of
foreign exchange rates, swap valuation gains and losses and other factors, operating income
decreased by JPY830 billion year-on-year.
Let me explain the operating income for each region. Japan increased by JPY50.1 billion year-on-
year due to the effects of foreign exchange rates despite the negative effect from soaring
material prices. North America decreased by JPY332.1 billion due to soaring materials prices and
an increase in expenses. Europe also decreased by JPY106.5 billion due to soaring material prices
and the cost of terminating our production in Russia, despite the positive effects from our
marketing efforts. Asia increased by JPY62.8 billion year-on-year due to the effects of foreign
exchange. Other regions decreased by JPY15.2 billion.
In the next slide, let me explain the business in China as well as financial services. As for our
business in China, while the operating income of consolidated subsidiaries decreased because of
the decrease in sales volume, our sales profit of investment accounted for by equity method
increased year-on-year, mainly due to an increase in sales volume and effects of foreign
exchange rates
The Financial Services business, the operating income here increased year-on-year largely due to
the impact of foreign exchange rates, increase in earning assets and others. With respect to the
shareholder return, we decided to pay an interim dividend of JPY25 per share, an increase of
JPY1 and we intend to continue to maintain and improve consolidated dividend payout ratio aswell as stably and substantially to reward our shareholders who hold our shares over the mid-
term to longer-term.
Now let me explain the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 2023. Please note that the
volumes, sales revenue and operating income of Hino Motors are included in numbers from this
forecast.
Let me explain the vehicle production forecast for Toyota and Lexus. We have set a high
production plan of 9.7 million units and worked hard with the suppliers and production sites in
order to deliver as many cars as possible, as soon as possible to our customers who have been
waiting for a long time for their cars to be delivered. However, it's still difficult to predict the
future due to risks such as procurement of semiconductors. Therefore, we decided to revise our
plan to 9.2 million units, which is down by 500,000 units from the previous forecast. We intend to
continue to consider all possible countermeasures and make every effort together with our
suppliers and production sites.
For consolidated vehicle sales volume, we have revised our forecast downward by 50,000 units
from the previous forecast, and we now anticipate 8.8 million units. Regional sales breakdown is
as stated in the presentation. As for the sales volume for Toyota and Lexus vehicles, we have
revised our forecast downward by 500,000 units from the previous forecast and the new
forecast is 9.4 million units.
Let me explain the full-year consolidated financial forecast. We have adopted the full-year foreign
exchange rate assumption of JPY135 per US dollar and JPY137 per euro. The foreign exchange
rate for October onwards is based on a three-month average rate of the second quarter, which
makes the foreign exchange rate assumption at JPY135 for both per US dollar and per euro.
Based on this, our forecast for the full-year consolidated financial performance are sales revenue
of JPY36 trillion, operating income of JPY2.4 trillion, income before taxes of JPY3.34 trillion, and
net income of JPY2.36 trillion.
Now let me explain the factors that may impact operating income as compared to the previous
forecast. First, the effects of foreign exchange rates will increase the operating income by
JPY220 billion. Second, cost reduction efforts will increase operating income by JPY60 billion.
Third, effects of marketing activities will decrease the operating income by JPY185 billion due to
the decrease in sales volume from supply constraints and worsening of sales mix.
Lastly, we also believe that we will incur a negative impact of JPY90 billion on operating income
due to swap valuation issues and the cost to terminate our production in Russia. As a result, we
have kept the operating income forecast unchanged from the previous forecast. The factors that
we expect will income -- impact operating income compared to the same period of previous
fiscal year are as shown in the presentation.
Although we are in a situation that makes it difficult to predict the future due to rapid changes in
the business environment, we will continue our activities to strengthen our profit structure.
`Kenta Kon, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Kon, EVP speaking. Today's financial results announcements relate to the performance of Toyota
over the past six months. However, these financial results reflect not only what has occurred over
these six months, but also the outcome of our longstanding efforts since the global financial crisis.
I believe they also reflect the competitiveness of Toyota as a whole, including our many
colleagues in the auto industry, so that customers around the world will want Toyota products, we
have continuously evolved our products by introducing such things as an in-house companysystem, a regional system, and the TNGA common vehicle platform. We believe that this has
resulted in our products being accepted by the market.
However, the environment has rapidly and significantly changed in the last half year. The US dollar,
Japanese yen exchange rate, which since 2017 had long remained stable between JPY105 and
JPY115 to the dollar rose from JPY121 at March end to JPY150 recently, while the yield of 10-year
US government bonds has risen from 2.3% to 4.1%. Also, as shown in this slide, energy and
materials price as well as the worldwide labor situation are rapidly and significantly fluctuating. All
of these tremendous changes, including the semiconductor procurement situation and other
factors are occurring concurrently and for the broadly-based auto industry. These changes could
have a significant impact in the future as well as my honest feeling is that it is difficult to predict
the future of the auto industry even six months ahead, let alone Toyota's earnings and production
volume.
With respect to the response to our -- our response to soaring raw materials prices mentioned in
the first half analysis explained by Yamamoto, we have been constantly discussing with suppliers
without drifting away from our focus of enhancing competitiveness over medium and long term.
The cars consist of about 30,000 parts and competitiveness cannot be increased by Toyota's
efforts alone. Faced with the soaring raw materials prices, Toyota and each and everyone
suppliers work in one to implement measures to address these things.
Even now, the order backlog issue is in -- our solution is not in sight. Although the production
volume forecast is revised, doing our utmost to deliver to customers who ordered early as soon
as possible, this basic stance has not changed. In reality, there are many difficulties and we
apologize for the wait but we'll continue to make efforts. And there have been many times in the
past when it was difficult to predict the future such as at the time of the global financial crisis.
And every time we had a major impact, we are seeing changes that are beyond the scale we
have seen before. I believe that our efforts that have been ongoing for a long time allowed us to
manage to maintain production level. The product-centric management we have implemented
following the global financial crisis has not only strengthened our production competitiveness, but
also our manufacturing field [ph] and techniques at our suppliers and production sites. It has also
led to significant improvements in efficiency in development sales and production, which allowed
us to reduce the breakeven number of units by more than 30% compared to before the global
financial crisis. I believe that this is a result of steady efforts with many stakeholders over a long
period to improve our structure.
Since 2009, Japanese auto and parts industries have invested a cumulative JPY20 trillion in R&D
and JPY23 trillion in capital expenditure and it provided customers with attractive products,
created numerous jobs, paid [ph] taxes to the national and local governments and obtain foreign
currency to finance energy imports. The Japanese auto industry has grown by sharing with many
people, the value created by mobility. I believe this is a tremendous strength that will enable the
entire Japanese industry, including the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association and the
Japan Auto Parts Industries Association to move forward as one team even in these times of
great change.
This is something that has never happened before. Even now, headwinds (inaudible) in
production increases and decreases due to the semiconductor shortage and rising costs due to
the soaring material prices continue. Although we cannot predict the future, we will leverage our
long-cultivated competitiveness, profit structure and strong bonds and relationship of trust that
we share with our many colleagues in the auto industry to overcome challenges and further
increase our competitiveness. We sincerely request your support.We will now start the Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Let us start with Mr. Yamamoto of Yomiuri Shimbun. (Operator Instructions)
Mr. Yamamoto, could you start asking your question, please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much for this opportunity. Yamamoto of Yomiuri Shimbun. Thank you for the
presentation. I have two questions. Question number one. The financial results that you have
announced today, what is your assessment of that? Could you explain that once again? The
second question relates to the volume, especially production volume. You've made downward
revision to the production volume in this announcement. I think the greatest factor behind that
was the supply -- shortage of semiconductors. What sources of semiconductors are in short
supply? And in order to recover and in order to increase the volume, what sort of measures do
you think are necessary?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Yamamoto, for the question. I think there are two major
questions. One related to our assessment of the financial results that we announced today. The
second one related to the downward revision of production, and what is the semiconductor short
supply and what sort of measures do you think are necessary for -- do we think are necessary for
recovery? The first question will be answered by Kon and the second one would be responded
by Nakamura and the third question, Mr. Kumakura of the procurement department will respond
to that.
A - `Kenta Kon, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Kon speaking. Thank you, Mr. Yamamoto (inaudible). I would like to share with you how we assess
and how we view the financial announcement. Let me share with you my view.
As I mentioned in the presentation earlier, in the past six months period, there has been major
and significant changes, not just one but several of those changes taking place concurrently.
Exchange rate fluctuation was one of them, interest rates, the raw materials prices, the energy,
semiconductors, and also the COVID impact still lingers on. And therefore, we are faced with
huge changes and each one of them represented the change impacting us significantly, but we
were hit by all of them at the same time, so this six-month period was a very demanding and
difficult period in my view. But despite that, the level of profit, it's not that we just are focused on
and assess the profit level, but we've been able to secure profit and we caused inconveniences
to customers and suppliers because we had to decrease production from the previously
announced level but still we think we were able to keep the current level of production.
Compared with the past levels, we were able to maintain a very high level of production. This I
think owes to the assiduous efforts we've made over many years and at the same time, this is
not made possible by Toyota's efforts alone, the carmakers, members of JAMA and also the
suppliers and everyone made focused efforts considering what we should be doing to deliver
vehicles and how can we deliver as many cars as possible to the customers. We shared those
objectives and purposes together and the fact that we were able to create such an environment
was very important.This is not made possible through efforts overnight. I think this is the financial results that really
made us really grateful for a certain environment, but at the same time, the profit decreased and
therefore, we would like to achieve as much recovery as possible, vis-a-vis, the impact of soaring
raw materials prices for the single year. Probably it will be extremely difficult and demanding for
us to achieve recovery in the single-year. B2C business and with a full lineup of product lines and
we have many suppliers, we may not be able to make that achievement in a short period of time.
But even if may take longer than we expect but we would like to achieve the solid recovery and
we intend to plan for that purpose.
Thank you very much. That's all from me.
A - `Yoshio Nakamura, Deputy Chief Officer, Production Group `
Thank you, Mr. Yamamoto, for your question. With respect to the production plan, let me respond
in the following manner. Let me explain the background that led to the downward revision of the
production plan. Since last year, supply has been interrupted and production continued to
decrease. And so from suppliers and lows in the actual forefront of production, they were really
taken support and in the labor-management council this year, we decided to take a pause and re-
examine and review the production structure itself and therefore, we have decided to take the
intentional pause. And while we have done that with suppliers, we continue to have a very
attentive and detailed discussion with the suppliers and also, incorporating future risks, we were
able to come up with a plan and share that with the suppliers in advance to facilitate the suppliers
to create their own plans. So we made such communication efforts in earnest.
And in the early part of last year, we said 9.7 million as the baseline, but of course, we have been
making every effort to deliver as many vehicles as possible to customers and we made efforts to
that, but not only the supply issues relating to semiconductors, we are faced with the lockdown in
Shanghai, and we were hit by many natural disasters this year and those are unexpected events
and because of those events occurred simultaneously, even if we wanted to make more cars and
even though we made every effort to that end, we were unable to achieve what we wanted to
do causing some inconvenience to customers and suppliers.
So that's the environment in which we had to operate but with suppliers and with the
departments concerned prepared the maximum amount of facts to predict and read the future,
and what is likely to take place in the future and every day, we had repeated discussions with
suppliers and departments in question. However, when it comes to specific numbers, we think
that probably, we may be able to produce 9.55 million units. But as I mentioned earlier, we have
not been able to fully predict and forecast the future risks, and therefore, bearing that in mind,
within the range of 2.55 million to 9.2 million units, we came up with this new figure as a reference
baseline point, so that reflects the background that led to 9.2 million we announced.
A - `Kazunari Kumakura, Chief Officer, Purchasing Group `
Continuing on, I would like to refer to the supply situation of semiconductors, what is the actual
situation, including the past history. I would like to share with you a detailed account as much as
possible. Because of the COVID-19 breakout, the semiconductors for consumer electronics
increasing demand because of the PCs, smartphones and games, and the production was
prioritized for consumer electronics and also some of the semiconductors were hit by natural
disasters of fire and also the lockdown in Southeast Asian countries or in China that really
impeded supply, which couldn't get pace with the demand and such conditions still continue
today.Since Great East Japan Earthquake, Toyota has been implementing BCP risk and we have
increased electronic parts inventory and working together with Tier 1 suppliers. Up until the first
half of 2021, we have been able to keep at a limited level the negative impact on production. The
general condition I described continues even today. In terms of the usage of semiconductors in
the automobiles, for different usage, the automobile use different types of semiconductors. In
many cases, 1,000 semiconductors are used per vehicle. As shown on this slide, the
microcomputers, the power semiconductors, image conductors, and semi -- analog
semiconductors, all together, about 1,000 of them are used for vehicles, and with the advent of
electrification and also with the enhanced level of advanced safety measures, the usage for
automobiles, or [ph] semiconductors is expected to increase.
In the case of semiconductors, from raw materials that moves to preceding processes as well as
the following processes, there are many different semiconductor manufacturers and for each
process, those production is divided in different parts of the locations throughout the world. And
even if one element of that semiconductor is in short supply or eliminated, a single car cannot be
built with respect to the current situation of the semiconductor supply. For the automotive
semiconductors, in terms of the total semiconductor market, it accounts for about 10%, so about
10% is for automotive use, and the majority of those semiconductor market is accounted for -- by
telecommunications, for data processing and also combined for electronics consumer usage.
For electronic consumer semiconductors, because of the after investments supply and demand
situation has relaxed and in the case of automotive semiconductors, some stability of supply was
restored. In those areas, semiconductors, that are also used for (inaudible) consumers, but in the
case of the semiconductors for which the capital investment is not really catching up or CapEx has
not been done, in this area, the supply is still in shortage, very tight supply-demand condition
continues, and in that collaborating with the Tier-1 suppliers and strengthening communication
with the semiconductor manufacturers, extending support for logistics of production and also
switching to substitute products, we have been able to steadily decrease the number of
semiconductor items with inherent risks.
But at the same time, as I mentioned earlier, for some parts, the inventory is very short and in the
overall process of the semiconductor manufacturing process, which stands for several months, if
a single day production is impeded, that will result in stoppage of supply, and this situation is likely
to continue. As I mentioned, the external environment remains tough, but we have been able to
visualize the semiconductor products with risks apparent, and working with Tier 1 manufacturers
of semiconductor producers will implement every possible measures to address them.
In this manner for 2.5 years, every single day, we have been conducting supply measure
conferences and meetings. We discussed not just semiconductors but natural disasters, the
COVID impact among others, which resulted in difficult supply conditions. So every day, we had
emergency supply measures for the past 2.5 years and therefore, there is no longer an
emergency. It is in constant error [ph], but at the same time, in the procurement, with the
suppliers both in Japan and overseas, we are conducting overall stocktaking of parts and
components, and how best we can maximize the production of vehicles is discussed every day
and measures are implemented, so that that can be referred to the actual production and
assembly plant. And in the sales area, although we are not able to foresee the future but trying
to minimize the inconveniences caused by customers as much as possible, we are trying to
change the supply, and in the design area, how quickly the substitute products and components
can be used are studied every day.
For suppliers, for a long period of time, we caused an impact from our decrease of production
and we caused inconveniences to suppliers among others but that notwithstanding in line withour production plan, they have been making efforts alongside and the impact of semiconductors
continues to have impact and as I said, we are anxious to produce as many vehicles as possible
but contacting customers, we are explaining the reasons why the delivery date is extended
among others.
So in this manner, all of us are working hard, working together to overcome the current difficult
period. And I personally do have the serious efforts -- serious feeling that we feel sorry for
customers for inconveniences but at the same time, I'm full of grateful features because
everyone is making serious efforts working together. So I hope you will understand the situation.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Yamamoto.
Operator
Let us move on to the next question from Asahi Shimbun, Mr. Narabe. (Operator Instructions) Mr.
Narabe, thank you for waiting. Mr. Narabe, your microphone is not on.
Q - `Takeshi Narabe, Analyst, Asahi Shimbun `
Now, can you hear me?
Operator
Yes.
Q - `Takeshi Narabe, Analyst, Asahi Shimbun `
My name is Narabe from the Asahi Shimbun. I have two questions. The first question is electricity
charges and other material charges increased [ph], Toyota has supported suppliers in the past
and they have announced that they will support them. And if you go down that tier, like secondary
or tertiary tiers, they are struggling more. So what are the support measures to the parts
manufacturers, suppliers? And how do you deliver those support? And overall for support, how
much will it cost on an amount basis?
And the second question is, as you mentioned in your presentation and worldwide, we are
seeing an increase in interest rates. For North America, I think this will have an indirect impact on
your lease business, and this may bring down consumption. So what is your outlook for the global
economy?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Thank you very much, Mr. Narabe. Your first question was about soaring material prices and how
to support the supply chain and the suppliers with which we have business relationships and in
particular, how to support the secondary and tertiary suppliers. So what kind of support and how
much of a support we will give? Mr. Kumakura from procurement will answer that question.
Your second question was about the interest rates, in particular, in North America and globally. So
global economy or global market forecast, how will it change in the future? So I will answer that
question.
A - `Kazunari Kumakura, Chief Officer, Purchasing Group `
Now, I will talk about soaring material prices. Well, so, there are many changes that it's very
difficult to predict the future. Many materials are tight in supply and rising in prices, so theeconomy, depending on the material, the market is becoming more stable, but overall, still the
prices are very high. And in Japan, because of the weaker yen, the import prices are going up. In
particular, our raw material and energy prices are going up, which is a burden to our suppliers.
Our basic stance is that we aim at coexistence and mutual prosperity with the suppliers. Cars
consist of tens of thousands of parts, and there are about 60,000 suppliers, including the very
deep-tier suppliers. So there are many suppliers supporting us. A single part or single company
missing will not allow us to produce vehicles and that will lead to reduction in competitiveness in
the future. So it is at a difficult time now. So rather than short-term measures, we have to look at
the medium to long term and the supply chain as a whole will have to collaborate with each other.
So with a true sense of purpose, we will move forward.
For major materials, which market data we will look at and when that data will be reflected in
parts prices has been discussed with the suppliers and we set a rule, and the 100% of the
changes are reflected in the parts prices. However, the speed and the scope of increasing prices
in the short term is unprecedented, so the burden on the suppliers is much larger than what we
have incorporated into the rules. So the timing of reflecting [ph] the prices in the parts prices are
reviewed to reduce the burden and we try to come closer to the reality, so that the burden on
the suppliers will be weaker. We take the necessary countermeasures.
Now on the energy costs, in the past, there were no drastic changes and we haven't had any
voices from the suppliers to reflect those changes in the prices. So regardless of the market, that
was not reflected in the prices. However, because of recent sudden interesting [ph] changes that
the suppliers are telling me that they are struggling.
From the viewpoint of protecting the suppliers, this time, we decided to take measures. So we
will continue to look at the market production status and the profitability of our suppliers in detail
to take the necessary responses. So we are taking these responses but this -- the effects will
have to be permeated to all suppliers, because of the commercial practices, we will not be
directly talking with Tier 2 suppliers on prices. In order to maintain competitiveness in the future,
we have to make sure that the effect will be felt by tiers in -- at all levels from Tier 1 to Tier 2,
from Tier 2 to Tier 3 suppliers.
We are asking them to swiftly reflect the market change in the price changes and I believe this will
lead to enhanced competitiveness in the future. And that is why we are taking these measures.
There may be further changes, we will look at the situation each time to take the necessary
responses. Overall, we have to make sure that the supply chain is not impaired. If that happens,
we'll not be able to produce vehicles and therefore, we need to make sure that the suppliers
become stronger. So please understand that situation.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Mr. Narabe, your next question was about the global market. I think I should talk about each
region specifically rather than talking about the totality. First, the overall economy. Frankly
speaking, as you mentioned, Mr. Narabe, the energy supply issue leads to inflation and that leads
to a hike in interest rates. So that is a spiral that we are in now.
What we are struggling with is that from the second half of 2022 to 2023, recovery from COVID
has been the general trend but the recovery trend and the interest rate hike, and the inflation
increase, leading to less disposable income of consumers. If you look at that balance, it's very
difficult to determine what will be the overall balance. And based on that, we created our
forecast.Now, look at America, Europe and Japan. So I would like to talk about these markets in
comparison to 2022. For 2022, for these three regions, there has been supply constraints. So we
saw global supply constraints. For 2023, the current outlook is that for Japan, United States and
Europe, the market will increase.
But as was mentioned in your presentation, the interest rates will go up and the customers are
thinking about lease and loans. So how much impact this will have on the lease and loans is
something that we have to watch carefully.
On the second point, which is China, just the same level as 2022 is what we forecasted. Now,
among Zero COVID -- for COVID -- because of COVID, there has been some subsidies activating
the market. So, how that will change and how the market will move including the real estate
situation will have to be watched closely in China.
And for Asia, India probably will be higher than this year, but for the other countries and regions,
just the same level as this year. On the other hand, for Asia, the risk is weaker currencies and how
that will impact the local economy is something that we will watch closely. For 2022, we saw a
supply shortage but if 20 -- compared to 2019 before COVID, overall, the market will achieve
about 80% to 90% of 2019 in 2023. So we will look at the situation in 2023 and make our
business decisions. So I mentioned this is difficult at the outset.
Last year this time, I don't think anyone has expected where we are in now. So every month or at
least, every quarter, we will get information from the local markets and make the decisions as
necessary. That is all.
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Narabe, for your question. Now, let us move on to the next question. Ms. [ph] Oka
of NewsPicks, please. (Operator Instructions) Ms. Oka, please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much. Oka of NewsPicks. I have two questions, if I may. First question, which
relates to the operating income of different regions, especially in relation to North America,
conspicuous is the decrease in profit in North America. Could you explain to us the reason behind
that? So that's the first question.
The second question is relating to the restrictions of gasoline vehicles in California and Europe.
There has been rather rapid progress in restricting gasoline engines. You referred to the change
in production of BEVs and if there is an initial explanation relating to your BEV strategy, I would like
to be enlightened on that.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
With respect to your question amongst geographical income, you asked about the factor behind
the profit decrease in North America. So Yamamoto, the Chief Operating Officer for Accounting
will explain to you. And California and Europe there has been a restriction of vehicles relating to
the achievement of carbon neutrality and you asked about whether there has been any change in
the Toyota's battery EV strategy, and I'll respond to that question.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question, Ms. Oka, and we would like to share the screen with you about the
geographical regions. As you have correctly pointed out, the second one from the left that showsNorth America. Last year, it decreased from JPY395.1 billion to JPY23 [ph] billion. So there has
been a significant decrease in profit, the biggest factor behind that was the soaring raw materials
prices or materials prices. Through cost improvement efforts in the production plants [ph] and
also the selling prices adjustments or modifications more than we do every year, we have been
making pricing changes for one or -- once or twice a year and by increasing the frequency of
pricing change, we would like to reflect those higher prices.
Of course, this is not something that we alone can decide. We would like to work with customers
to achieve the better pricing and local devoted [ph] people are making efforts to that. So we are
making every effort to recover the impact of higher prices and every effort is made but this
JPY63 billion includes the financial services business as well, and the environment remains very
tough. But with respect to North American business, how are we going to restore its strength is
something that we have begun discussing right now. Thank you.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Now, with respect to the battery EV or I would like to talk about our plan for electrification, electric
vehicles, but before that, I would like to talk about what we have been explaining -- explained in
the past. We talk about carbon-free world or how to reduce carbon, how to achieve carbon
neutrality. I would like to start describing that.
In trying to achieve carbon neutrality for different regions, the energy conditions vary from country
to country. And the degree of the transition to green energy is totally different from region to
region throughout the world. And as you mentioned in your question, in California, the United
States, especially in Europe, in those regions, compared with Japan or Asian countries, quite
significantly, there has been a transition made to green energy using renewable energy, more
and more.
So based upon that in Europe, by 2035, including battery EV, they're talking about achieving
100% zero emission vehicles. So, therefore, Japan has its own way of achieving carbon neutrality.
And as I mentioned, the Europeans will have their own way of achieving carbon neutrality, the way
to climb the mountain called carbon neutrality.
So in line with the energy situation in each region, of course, the battery EV will be extremely
formidable, but at the same time, other powertrains including hybrid EVs or plug-in EVs, the fuel
cell electric vehicles or the hydrogen engines that we have embraced as a new energy and also
the synthetic fuels. I think there are many options that could be used in the future, and which one
of that is going to be adapted would vary from country to country and to reduce the CO2 as
much as possible by using different options is something that we are considering in the local and
regional context.
Now, has Toyota changed its strategy or policy with respect to the battery EV? In December last
year, we had the forum in which we made a presentation of our strategy for BEV and we talked
about 3.5 million units of BEVs to be achieved by 2030. And in the case of Lexus, we cited a
figure of 1 million and those basic figures of baselines have not been changed.
And with that in mind, we introduced bZ4X, which the battery-dedicated EV and in China, this
month, we introduced bZ3 in China, which is the dedicated Chinese vehicle in the battery EV.
In China, we work with BYD in developing the battery EVs by taking advantage of the strong
technology and this China example would be quite easy to understand. In China where the
battery EV will grow going forward, we will introduce those products going forward. And in Japan
and the United States, as we explained to you in our battery presentation forum, in order toreduce CO2 emissions, we'll introduce and launch those BEVs or other vehicles in line with the
local and regional requirements. So in line with the local conditions, we introduced BEVs, so that
we can achieve carbon neutrality all together.
So, I would appreciate it if you could understand Toyota's strategy from that perspective. Thank
you very much.
Operator
Thank you very much to Ms. Oka. Now to the next question from NHK, Mr. Enoshima [ph].
(Operator Instructions) Thank you for waiting.
Q - Unidentified Participant
My name is Enoshima from NHK. I have two questions. First is about the impact of the weaker yen.
This -- so the results reflect the weaker yen but tell me about the impact of the weaker yen on
the business results. The second point is about the cost of termination of production in Russia.
You have about JPY90 billion reflected in the financial results. So is there a possibility that related
costs will be added to the expenses in the future?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Thank you very much for your question, Ms. Enoshima. Your first question was about the impact of
the weaker yen, and this will be answered by Mr. Kon, the Executive Vice President. And the
second point was about the cost of termination of Russian production and the potential of future
losses in relation to this. So this will be discussed by Mr. Yamamoto from the Accounting Group.
A - `Kenta Kon, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Ms. Enoshima. As always, I will talk about the impact of the weaker yen on
the financial results. So whether the weaker yen has an impact on our results, we are an OEM and
we do production in Japan and we export our products. So foreign currency received from the
customers, so the weaker yen means more sales and more profits, but if you look at the
suppliers, there are differences between suppliers. But some suppliers have overseas affiliates
and they send parts to the overseas affiliates. So in that case, they will be profiting from the
weaker yen. On the other hand, there are suppliers that import raw material from overseas. In
that case, the weaker yen means purchasing prices will go up and they will incur losses.
So we are talking about Toyota financial results here, but we work with suppliers and distributors.
So there will be impacts felt on various fronts. So we cannot say the impact is positive or negative
across the Board. In the short term, over the past six months, the yen came down by JPY30 yen
and 10 years ago, there was a time when it was JPY75 to JPY80 yen to the dollar. At that time,
several manufacturing companies transfer their sites -- manufacturing sites overseas to eliminate
the impact from ForEx.
Back then, Toyota and other automotive companies in Japan, according to Toyota's words, have
tried to protect the domestic production at any cost. 8 million to 9 million for the industry, 3
million for Toyota was the amount of production in Japan. The supplier base and the
employment, including that of suppliers was protected by maintaining production in Japan.
So if there is an impact of foreign exchange rates, that would mean that you are producing a lot
in Japan, but this time, there was a negative impact on the suppliers, that is true. So, as Mr.
Kumakura mentioned, in order to maintain our medium to long-term competitiveness, we willlook at where they can enhance competitiveness [ph] and where they can improve their -- the
structure of their business.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you very much, Ms. Enoshima. Your second question was about Russia. We had a bar chart
in the presentation. JPY96.9 billion. This is the amount of losses incurred in the first half, and that
includes retirement costs for returning people, and asset impairment costs. These are included in
this number. Since the conflict, the stakeholders, including the employers, should be protected.
That has been what we were discussing every day and every week. So for the employers, we
wanted to secure them a second career or a next job, and lead time and funds would be
necessary for that. So the money that we keep in Russia could be transferred to the employees.
When we decided that that could be achievable, we decided upon this. So there may be some
additional costs but there will be no additional major costs incurred.
Operator
Thank you very much, Ms. Enoshima. Now, let us move on to the next question from Wall Street
Journal, Ms. `River Davis, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal, please. (Operator Instructions)
Q - `River Davis, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal `
This is `River Davis, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal for The Wall Street Journal. Thank you very much for taking my question. I have
one follow-up question on the chips issue. Last week, I think the mood in Detroit was sort of that
we've made it through the worst of the chip shortage and I see that you are taking a little bit
more of a conservative forecast. Could you talk a little bit about why there is a difference there?
And Kumakura-san, I believe you were referring to perhaps analog chips when you were talking
about chips that don't have as much investment in them. Is that a particular bottleneck at the
moment?
And my second question is about vehicle pricing. Nagata-san, you spoke a little bit about interest
rates and inflation. And I'm wondering how that's impacting car prices at the moment and how
you foresee it impacting car prices through the end of the year. Thank you.
(Foreign Language)
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Thank you very much, Ms. Davis. With respect to the first question relating to the chip, Mr.
Kumakura, the Chief Officer for Purchasing Group will respond. And your second question, I'm Jun
[ph] Nagata, my name, will respond to that.
A - `Kazunari Kumakura, Chief Officer, Purchasing Group `
Could you refer to Page 18? Could you share with us the screen of Page 18 of the slides once
again? This is -- this slide that I shared with you earlier. As you correctly pointed out, there are
different types of semiconductors and chips. And at this juncture, I cannot officially refer to analog
semiconductor as was [ph] the key issue, but in some semiconductors, the supply is getting
better and other semiconductors and chips remains in short supply.
And generally speaking, all in all, the worst situation I believe we have already overcome with [ph]
as was mentioned in the question. But at the same time, earlier I talked about 9.2 million units,
which is the result of a downward reduction and the background to that is we are now discussing
with our suppliers one by one and we are identifying the risks for specific semiconductors andthat are incorporated in that figure. And including those unforeseeable figures, including those
areas difficult to predict, we arrived at a figure of 9.2 million as was explained by Mr. Nakamura.
And every day, we have been following the situation of each types of chips. And I guess we
simply have to continue doing this going forward.
Overall, as I mentioned earlier, if I may repeat myself, we have emerged from the worst situation.
But if we look at each type of semiconductors, the supplies are not necessarily recovered to the
satisfactory level and therefore, suppliers are using different semiconductors for different parts
of the vehicle. So by following the situation in great detail, we would like to refer that situation in
the actual production activities. That's all. Thank you.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
With respect to the vehicle pricing, allow me to explain in greater detail. In the first presentation,
as Mr. Yamamoto mentioned, a substantial amount of inflation-related impact is included and this
is not limited to the United States. But as far as we are concerned, I think the prices that has risen
because of the inflation for -- in terms of vehicle prices, we have begun to reflect those higher
cost of prices to the vehicle prices as much as possible. But it's not that we can pass on those
higher costs to the vehicle price. As I mentioned earlier, the economic conditions vary from region
to region, and also the vehicles offered in the market is quite different from region to region
because of the different acceptability of customers.
And therefore, for different regions, the models and brands, we examine them in great detail in
deciding on the price adjustments. Let me explain to you the situation by region by region.
The price revision, or price adjustment in the United States and Europe, even in the past, we had
a price reduction of model for that price every year in terms of year [ph] model. So in -- aligned
with that year model timing, we made adjustments to the vehicle prices. And therefore, in Europe
and the United States, in the inflationary situation, we actually feel that we have reasonable prices
significantly, but also in Japan, Asia, there is commonality between these two regions, the vehicle
mix, and the line-up have shifted toward compact vehicles and a substantial amount of vehicle
mix is comprised by compact vehicles. And in the case of Japan, the economic growth have been
seeing increase in income levels, the real income has not risen in Japan, that's the reality.
And therefore, the higher models such as Lexus vehicles or higher brand vehicles, we charge
soon [ph] higher prices. But in those areas where the vehicle is really essential for customer's
lifestyle and -- but is essential for living, we have been trying to moderate those price increase
adjustments. But in the case of vehicles in the Toyota brand, many are long-selling vehicles, Tron
[ph] or Land Cruisers, HiAce, the Corolla, the Camry, those models have been in existence for
over 30 years. Be it in the United States or in Japan, in the case of long-selling vehicles,
customers do have a very strong attachment to specific models and therefore, they have their
clear market-clearing view of the appropriate level of prices. In the case of US market, it is
$25,000 [ph] to $30,000 [ph] Corolla. And with that, those models have been accepted and
loved by customers. So we would like to keep those general image of the vehicle and the prices
in that relationship. So we are really racking our brains to come up with the appropriate level of
pricing.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. River, for your question.
Operator
Let us move to the next question from GG, Toyoda-san [ph]. (Operator Instructions)Q - Unidentified Participant
My name is Toyoda from GG. Can you hear my voice? Yes. About the full-year forecast. For the
full-year forecast, sales has been revised upward. Is this because of the weaker Japanese yen?
Or are there other factors behind this upward revision? And if you look at operating income, you
have maintained the previous forecast. JPY220 billion from ForEx and for product mix has had a
negative impact, I believe. So, what do you mean by aggravating product mix?
And you've been talking about the impact of the weaker yen. But among the Japanese
manufacturers, manufacturing sites are coming back to Japan and exports levels may be
changing. So what is your thinking towards the future?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Thank you very much for your questions. Your first question was about the upward revision of
sales. Is the weaker yen the only factor? And for the negative impact, the product mix has had a
negative impact and what are the details of the aggravating product mix? This will be explained
by Mr. Yamamoto from the Accounting Group and with the weaker yen, manufacture -- some
manufacturing sites are coming back to Japan. And what does Toyota think of this general trend?
Mr. Kon, EVP, will answer that question.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you very much to Ms. Toyoda. Full year forecast JPY3.6 trillion. So that is a change of JPY1.5
trillion upward revision in sales revenue. The dollar was JPY130 and that went to JPY135. This
JPY5 difference is behind this upward revision.
And your second question was about operating income and if you look at the product mix, this
has had a negative impact. So the product mix and revision is a part of our revision. So for the
product mix, as we have a global business, for depending on the region, the profitability differs,
so there are region-to-region differences and there is also models that have higher profitability
and those with lower profitability.
So in relation to the different regions, China, Lexus volume has come down, and that has had a
negative impact on -- in product mix. And Alphard and Vellfire volume in Japan has come down
for various reasons. The main reason is the semiconductor chips. Supply to these models was not
sufficient and therefore, it has had a negative impact. And that is all from my side.
A - `Kenta Kon, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So with the weaker yen, there are some manufacturing companies moving back to Japan. In the
case of the automotive industry, once you start operation in one country, primary, secondary,
tertiary suppliers will also go to that area. So the supplier chain or the supply chain of the
automotive industry is like that and each company has many employees and sometimes schools,
hospitals or cities may be created around that company. So with the short-term changes in ForEx
rates, it will be very difficult to switch quickly the location of the manufacturing sites, so each
region will have to enhance their competitiveness, so that they can respond to short-term
changes. So they will need to maintain strength so that they can respond to those changes.
On the other hand, if you look at the supplier base, manpower, it is true that manufacturing
industry in Japan is very strong. So there will be no drastic changes in production, but to the
extent possible, we will try to improve the productivity in Japan to produce products to deliver
them to our customers. In order to achieve that, the efficiencies and productivity in Japan willhave to be focused on, so we can produce as much as possible in Japan. That will be necessary
under the current business environment and we will continue to work on that. That is all. Thank
you very much.
Operator
Thank you, Ms. Toyoda, for your question. There seems to be other questions, but since the
scheduled closing time is approaching, I would like to dedicate only two persons to ask question.
Who -- Mr. `Hans Greimel, Analyst, Automotive News of Automotive News. (Operator Instructions) I think you're -- Hans, you're
still on mute. So could you de-mute yourself?
Q - `Hans Greimel, Analyst, Automotive News
Can you hear me? What about now? Can you hear me now? Okay. (Foreign Language) Good. May
I ask question in English? Thank you.
Toyota is at a stage now where it is introducing several newly developed cars and new kinds of
cars. We have the Crown series coming out, we have some new BEVs coming out. I think we'll
soon have a new Prius coming out. These are all cars that rely a lot on the semiconductors and
special materials for the batteries, especially. To what degree are these price increases and the
semiconductor supply problems impacting product development? Is it slowing down the rollout of
these cars? And how is the chip shortage affecting your prioritization of which kinds of models
you prioritize for production and sale over other kinds? Is there a prioritization of the mix that you
are trying to achieve because of this shortage? And finally, can you give us any kind of an idea
about when you expect the shortage to eventually end, 2023, 2024, 2025? I hope not. But what
kind of timeline do you see? Thank you.
(Foreign Language)
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Thank you very much, Hans. The first question must be responded by several answers. With
respect to the semiconductor shortage, you also asked about the usage of our new materials
used for batteries. To what extent that would impact the vehicle development? And what would
affect the priority of the development? So this will be responded by Kumakura, In-charge of
Procurement. And the second question is very difficult, but Kumakura-san will respond to that
question as well.
A - `Kazunari Kumakura, Chief Officer, Purchasing Group `
Thank you very much. Kumakura is my name. Let me respond to that question. With respect to
the shortage of semiconductors or the materials used for batteries, to what extent do they
impact the development of vehicles or launch of vehicles? But they alone will not impact those.
For the development of vehicles, if the volume is assembled, we can start the stage of
development and therefore, the development itself will not be affected or slowed by the factors
you have mentioned.
But with respect to the models to be manufactured and produced, to what extent and how the
supply situation is improved and what will be deduced [ph] with different models? And what is
even more important relates to the customers who are waiting for the vehicles to be delivered.
They have purchased vehicles but the supply has not kept up with demand and therefore, they
have been kept waiting and waiting. There are many customers in queue so to those customers
who are waiting, we would like to deliver vehicles as quickly as possible. So that perspective isalways kept in mind in looking at the semiconductors and the parts comprising semiconductors as
supply are considered. So that is the sequence of our thinking.
With respect to your second question, the shortage of semiconductors, when that is going to be
removed or recovered? That's a very good question. But I personally had not expected that the
supply shortage will continue this long. Earlier I mentioned that we have been conducting
emergency conferences and meetings since 2.5 years ago. I never expected this to last for 2.5
years, but looking at individual elements, out of one 1,000 semiconductors, some will still reflect
the situation whose supply will remain in short.
And of course, I would like to see this shortage to be eliminated and removed as quickly as
possible. As mentioned in the question, is it going to be '23, '24 for us to see the end to this
shortage situation? I have not been able to predict the future and when the problem will be
eliminated. So I do not know is my answer. In this uncertain world, every day, all of us working
together and strengthening our relationship with the semiconductor suppliers, we are making
every effort to obtain the supply of the semiconductors.
Probably my response is not really not up to your expectations. But I hope that's the best I can do.
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much. Now, let us move on to the last question from Nikon Kogil [ph], Masatoshi-
san. (Operator Instructions)
Q - Unidentified Participant
This is Masatoshi from Nikon Kogil. Thank you for the opportunity. I have two questions. First is the
return to the suppliers. For the full year, the material cost rise has -- impact is reduced from JPY1.7
trillion to JPY1.65 [ph] trillion. So do you intend to continue to provide support to the suppliers
next year? And second, Toyota has been adamant about protecting the supply chain in Japan and
you've talked about 3.5 million in Japan, but there are external factors as well. And you have not
been able to maintain that number. As Mr. Kon mentioned, there are complex economic risks and
manufacturing sites, and procurement strategy of Toyota. What is your strategy over the medium
to long term?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communications Officer `
Thank you very much, Ms. Masatoshi. The first question was of light [ph]. The impact of material
cost rise has been reduced to -- by JPY50 billion. And you also asked whether the supplier
support will continue next year, and Mr. Yamamoto will answer that question. Your second
question was about for maintaining the supply chain in Japan, what is our medium to long-term
strategy? That will be explained by Mr. Kumakura and as necessary, EVP, Mr. Kon will respond.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you very much to Ms. Masatoshi. The full-year forecast for this year, we've made a revision
by JPY60 billion. And iron, aluminum, these materials market has come down slightly from the
highest level, and that has been reflected in the revision. And the impact of the change in volume
has also had an impact on the revision of JPY50 billion.
So, on our relationship with our suppliers, basically, there is no change. JPY1.65 trillion within this
supplier, the market ups and downs, and other factors are included but stable quality and stablecontinued. So a stable environment is necessary for operations and that is included in these
numbers. And carbon-neutral, when it comes to carbon-neutral, the suppliers will also have to
take action. The supply chain as a whole will have to think about carbon neutrality.
Some suppliers are wondering what carbon neutrality is about and sometimes, the suppliers may
not have meters in their production lines to measure CO2. So trying to consider in time to
prepare is necessary for the automobile industry as a whole. And in order to prepare, we have
JPY1.65 trillion, we will work on activities hard this year and we will think again about what we will
do next year.
A - `Kazunari Kumakura, Chief Officer, Purchasing Group `
Next year, we will continue support to the suppliers. Protecting the supply chain as I mentioned
before, is something that we have to continue to do work on. And each one will strive hard to
enhance competitiveness. So how changes will come about? We cannot predict that. So if we
have to continue supporting the suppliers, we will and if things become stable, we will look at the
situation and take the necessary responses looking at the changes.
Now, 3 million in Japan -- 3 million or more in -- to be produced in Japan was the plan but
semiconductors, floods, earthquakes, we had these natural disasters plus COVID. So,
unfortunately, we were not able to achieve 3 million. So it's not a matter of whether this is good
or bad, but we have to keep 3 million in mind and look at the overall picture of supporting the
supply chain. Over the medium to long term, that perspective will remain unchanged.
A - `Kenta Kon, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So I have almost nothing to add to what Mr. Kumakura mentioned, but I may be repeating things.
This year's production in Japan was -- will be about 2.7 million or so. But basically, we will continue
to keep 3 million in mind. There are some factors in Japan that lead to lower production. But over
the medium to long term, we want to maintain 3 million in Japan, and our thinking remains the
same.
There was a reference to the weaker yen and there was a question about going out overseas
and then coming back to Japan, but that is not easy and that will not happen. But we will use the
source of competitiveness so that we can create the value of mobility.
Operator
Thank you very much. Thank you very much to Ms. Masatoshi. And with this, we conclude the
financial results meeting. Thank you very much for listening despite your busy schedules.