Q1 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Chris Stevo, Senior
Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, operator. Good morning. Welcome to Pfizer's first quarter earnings call. I'm joined
today by Dr. `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our chairman and CEO; `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, our CFO and Michael Dolsten,
President of Worldwide Research and Development and Medical. You can ask for the Q&A
session, we will also have `Angela Hwang, Group President, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group;
`Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Business and Innovation Officer; Doug Lankler, our General Counsel and
William Powell, our new Chief Development Officer.
Materials for this call and other earnings related materials are on the Investor Relations section of
pfizer.com. Please see our forward-looking statements disclaimer on slide 3, and additional
information regarding these statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our
earnings release and in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q under Risk Factors and Forward-Looking
Statements.Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties speak
only as of the call's original date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the
statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris and good morning, everyone. Pfizer has had what a solid start for the year.
Revenues were up 82% operationally, compared with the first quarter of 2021. Key growth drivers
for the quarter included Comirnaty, Paxlovid, Eliquis, Vyndaqel/Vyndamax globally, our Prevnar
family of vaccines and our oncology biosimilars portfolio in the US.
Overall, we reached an estimated 468 million patients around the world only in one quarter with
our innovative medicines and vaccines, which represents a 140% increase from the prior year
quarter and it is a testament to our purpose, breakthroughs that change patients' lives. We
continue to supply the world with a commitment, which remains a critical tool in helping prevent
severe illness, hospitalization and death from COVID-19.
Today, we have shipped nearly 3.4 billion doses of our vaccine to 179 countries. Comirnaty is the
most utilized mRNA vaccine in the markets in which we operate and that report market share
data. Pfizer's cumulative share of doses administered in these markets has increased in fact, from
52% that used to be on January 1 beginning of the year 2022 to 62% on May 1, 2022, just few
months 10 points. In developed markets, our share has increased from 59% to 67% over that
same period of time.
We also have had a strong start to the year with regard to regulatory milestones, including the
Emergency Use Authorization from the US FDA and Conditional Market Authorization from EMA
for our 12- to 15-year-old booster dose. We had am EUA from the FDA for a second booster, the
fourth dose, in patients 50 years of age and older and 12 years of age and older who are
immunocompromised. And we had an extension to a 12-month frozen shelf-life label, 12 months,
from both the FDA and the EMA. Our ambition is to eventually achieve a 24-month shelf-life,
which would help alleviate concerns some governments may have about having expiring doses in
stock.
In addition to the US and the EU, we now have authorizations for the 5 to 11 age group in 44 other
markets around the world. In addition, with the recently released new results from our Phase 2/3
clinical trial demonstrating that the 10-microgram booster dose of our vaccine in healthy children
5 to 11 years of age increases geometric mean neutralizing antibody titers, a wild type and
Omicron variants. Based on these data, last week we submitted an application to the FDA for
EUA of a 10-microgram booster dose for children in this age group and we look forward to filing
in other jurisdictions in the near future.
We also expect to share data on our ongoing study in children who are six months to under five
years of age in the next few weeks. This study is looking at the safety and efficacy of three doses
of the vaccine in this age group and we hope to submit an application for an EUA soon, pending
the results of the data readout, of course.
Lastly, we stand ready to support boosting authorized populations today, as well as in the fall
ahead of the traditional flu season. Independent real-world evidence from several countries has
demonstrated but our booster doses improve protection that may have waned from the primary
vaccination or since the first booster.Our market research shows that greater than 96% of healthcare provider respondents in key
markets, like the US and the EU5 largest markets continue to recommend a third dose/booster
dose for their patients. We also have seen an upward trend in uptake of a third dose/booster in
various developed markets. In these same markets that I referred previously, 74% of people who
have received the initial two-dose regimen reported, that they have already received their
dose/booster, 74%, and the remaining 13% of the respondents said that they are very likely to
receive a booster. We believe this is an encouraging leading indicator for the potential uptake of
a fourth dose. We also continue to evaluate potential next-generation vaccines including variant
vaccines to provide broad coverage for the fall and we look forward to evaluating and sharing
these data in the coming months.
We are also delivering on our commitments for Paxlovid, which is already having a profoundly
positive impact on the lives of patients around the world. Through the end of March, we
produced more than six million treatment courses, all of which have been shipped shortly after
they were produced. Because the financial calendar quarter for international markets ends in
February and the majority of the six million treatments were produced in March, only a small
portion of these shipments were recorded in our first quarter revenues. In fact, as of today, we
have shipped approximately eight million treatment courses.
Our manufacturing ramp-up is progressing as planned and we are on track to produce 24 million
courses in the second quarter for a total of 30 million in the first half of the year. All of this
quantities have already been allocated to existing orders. In addition, we remain on track to
produce 120 million courses for the full year, as previously stated.
To date, Paxlovid has received regulatory approvals or temporary authorization for use with
certain populations in more than 60 countries. We continue to have discussions with governments
and regulatory agencies around the world about bringing this potential breakthrough treatment
to additional markets.
Some countries that they have experienced recent outbreaks have come back to us to request
additional treatment courses, which we are responding to with urgency. Others are taking steps
to expand access. For example, the Italian government recently announced an expansion of
prescribing into prime care. We believe this shift from having only specialists prescribe Paxlovid
will help ensure more patients get access at the right time.
In the UK, Paxlovid will now be included in the National Panoramic Study, which we expect will
increase access and collect further data regarding how the therapy works in the market where
the majority of the adult population is vaccinated. This is important because, to date, the UK has
restricted Paxlovid use to a very limited population and this study could lead to government to
open up access to a much broader population, closer to the authorized population.
In Canada, we expect increasing supply and the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions will enable greater
access for patients across the country. Quebec and Ontario, which represent the two largest
provinces and are home to more than 60% of Canada's population, have expanded distribution
to eligible pharmacies, allowed pharmacists to prescribe, albeit allowed pharmacists to prescribe
and started a comprehensive direct-to-consumer and social media campaign to ensure all eligible
patients are aware of the availability of Paxlovid.
Here in the US, we have seen Paxlovid's utilization grow nearly 10-fold in recent weeks. Paxlovid
was administered to more than 79,000 patients in the US, the week ending April 22, up from
approximately 8,000 patients for the week ending February 25, 2022. We will continue to work
with the US Government and healthcare providers to appropriately drive even higher utilization.And based on data from IQVIA Xponent, Paxlovid's markets share relative to molnupiravir in the
retail, long-term care and mail order channels grew from 44% in that week ending January 28 of
2022 to almost 90% in the week ending April 22, 2022. Together, these channels represent
estimated 50% of Paxlovid utilization in the US. The number of locations in the US with Paxlovid
supply continues to increase with more than 33,000 sites alive, as of today. This is more than a
four-fold increase since late February, leading to easier patient access. The US Government
declared its intention to double this size again in the coming weeks and making Paxlovid available
to any pharmacy who wishes to stock.
In addition, 77% of recent US COVID-19 cases occur within five miles of the closest retail point of
care which is up from only 23% since February. We expect this trend to continue to increase
driven by the US Government's Test to Treat initiative. For example, nearly 1,100 more Test to
Treat locations have been added since the beginning of April only. Today, there are more than
2,200 locations of Test to Treat open.
Overall, we expect the recent trends to expand access as well as inquiries received from
governments, as the virus mutates and causes spikes in infections around the world, to result in
increased orders in the coming months as governments continue to help protect their citizens
who are at high risk of severe disease, hospitalization and death in response to emerging
variants and continuing outbreaks.
Now, I will turn to our business development strategy. We leverage business development
opportunities to advance our business strategies and objectives. We recently announced positive
top line results from a yearlong phase 3 trial of etrasimod in moderately-to-severely active
ulcerative colitis. These results underscore Pfizer's ability to identify strong business development
targets as this potentially best-in-class drug candidate came to us via our recent acquisition of
Arena. We look forward to presenting these data and filing for approval later this year.
First quarter, we discussed how the strength of our balance sheet and cash flows gives us the
ability to pursue new business development opportunities that, if successful, could add at least
$25 billion of risk-adjusted revenues to our 2030 top-line expectations. Our planned acquisition
of ReViral is the first deal to be counted towards to this ambition.
ReViral is a privately held, clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering,
developing and commercializing novel antiviral therapeutics that target Respiratory Syncytial Virus,
basically target RSV. We believe annual revenue from these programs, if successful, has the
potential to reach or exceed $1.5 billion, this is big revenues. We also are excited about the
prospect of having several experienced virologists to our team.
Building relationships within the growing biotech ecosystem remains the priority for Pfizer. We
continue to pursue new creative ways of partnering with biotechs to increase our access to
cutting-edge innovation and to bring our resources to bear to help drive breakthroughs for
patients. We believe our scientific expertise, our end-to-end development and manufacturing
capabilities makes us an extremely attractive partner, as seen, for example, through our
relationship with BioNTech. And we are confident that we have the financial resources to support
business development opportunities that will complement and enhance our internal R&D efforts
and add capacity and flexibility to support our growing clinical portfolio.
Next, I would like to discuss some of our recent ESG highlights. First, we announced in February
the results of Pfizer's third annual pay equity study, in which a recognized compensation expert
confirmed equitable pay practices for employees at Pfizer. The results indicated that Pfizercompensates female colleagues at a level that it is greater than 99% of what male colleagues
are paid across the globe.
Additionally, in the US, minorities are paid at dollar-for-dollar parity of what non-minorities are
paid. When you look at Pfizer's median pay for women globally, it is in high 102.3% for the median
pay of males. However, when you look at the median pay for minorities in US workforce, it is
85.5% of the median pay for our non-minorities. This median race pay gap is an area we are
actively addressing and that we expect to narrow.
Second, I want to reiterate the Pfizer stands with a unified global community in opposition to
Russia's invasion to Ukraine. While Pfizer is maintaining our humanitarian supply of medicine to
Russians (inaudible) we will be donating all profits of our Russian subsidiary to causes that provide
direct humanitarian support to the people of Ukraine.
Additionally, we will no longer initiate new clinical trials in Russia and will stop recruiting new
patients in our ongoing clinical trials in the country. Pfizer will work with the FDA and other
regulators to transition all ongoing clinical trials to alternative sites outside Russia. And consistent
with our commitment to putting patients first, we will continue providing needed medicines to the
patients already enrolled in clinical trials in Russia. Lastly, we are ceasing all future investments
with local suppliers intended to be build manufacturing capacity in Russia.
Third, further demonstrating our commitment to equitable access, we have made the decision
that for as long as the pandemic lasts, Pfizer will not profit from sales of our COVID-19 treatment
to the world's poorest countries. In March, Pfizer announced an agreement with UNICEF to supply
up to four million treatment courses of Paxlovid to 95 low- and middle-income countries. Under
the agreement, all low- and lower-middle-income countries will be offered the treatment courses
at a not-for-profit price while upper-middle-income countries will pay a price defined in Pfizer's
tiered pricing approach.
Lastly, I'm pleased to share that Pfizer continues to be recognized as an ethical, patient-focused
company that holds itself, its employees and its business partners to high standards. In March,
Pfizer was recognized as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere, a global
leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices.
And just last week, and we are so proud about it, for the first time ever Pfizer ranked first among
big pharma companies in the PatientView Global Survey in 2021. This ranking is based on
feedback from more than 2.000 patient organizations and associations worldwide. As recently as
2018, we were ranked fifth, and we have steadily climbed in the rankings ever since and we are
so proud that we are number one right now.
Now, I would like to welcome two new members of Pfizer Executive Leadership Team. Dr. William
Pao joined us on March 21 as Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer.
Throughout his 25-year career as an oncologist and scientist, William has amassed extensive
clinical and deep scientific expertise that make him the ideal partner to continue our pursuit in
breakthrough medicines and vaccines for the benefit of patients and society.
Just yesterday, David Denton joined as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President. Dave
brings with him more than 25 years of finance and operational expertise, including more than 20
years in the healthcare sector. As a result, he brings to Pfizer a unique perspective on all payers,
the needs of patients, and the rapidly evolving healthcare landscape.
We are thrilled to welcome these two highly effective and visionary leaders at this critical time for
our company and global health. And now, before I hand it off to Mikael, I want to take a momentto thank `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, my best friend in Pfizer, for his many contributions to Pfizer. In addition to
helping ensure Pfizer's financial strength and discipline, Frank has been an incredible mentor to
many of Pfizer's current leaders, helped shape our long-term growth strategy and work tirelessly
to ensure Pfizer has the resources it needs to help improve the lives of patients around the
world. Frank, on behalf of all Pfizer colleagues and I'm sure all the analysts on today's call, I'm not
only, I wish you continued good health and success.
With that, I will turn it over to Mikael to update you on the R&D efforts. After Mikael, Frank will
provide financial details on the first quarter and our outlook for the remainder of 2022. Mikael?
`Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
Thank you, Albert. I'd like to start by highlighting two recent external acknowledgment of Pfizer's
R&D turnaround. Pfizer was ranked first for innovation in the 11th Annual Pharmaceutical Innovation
and Invention Index and first for what Forbes termed "total R&D productivity over 20 years" in a
paper published in Drug Discovery Today.
This is a testament not only to the work of our scientists over the past year but our purposeful
efforts to improve our R&D engine over the past 10 years. Today, I will share updates on COVID-
19, inflammation and immunology, RSV, oncology, Lyme disease and hemophilia.
In some cases, I may reference publicly available data on other agents so that you can
understand our enthusiasm about what we're seeing in our development programs. Of course,
head-to-head clinical trials would be necessary to support any comparative claims. We continue to
pursue a comprehensive and data-driven clinical strategy for COMIRNATY focused on evaluating
real-world vaccine effectiveness, demonstrating higher immunogenicity with boosters, expanding
access to pediatric population and addressing emerging variants of concern.
On the left, in the Phase 2/3 trial of COMIRNATY administered to children aged 5 through 11, we
have shown that the third 10-microgram dose demonstrated a six-fold boost in neutralizing wild-
type SARS-CoV-2, and a 36-fold boost in neutralizing the Omicron variant. Last week, we
submitted an EUA request to the FDA for a third dose boost in this population. On the right, we
show that the third 30-microgram dose administered to adults in the landmark clinical trial
effectively neutralized the Omicron sub-lineages including BA.2, one month after dose 3.
We have also now received EUA for a second booster in people aged 50 and older, and for
individuals 12 years of age and older who have certain kinds of immunocompromise. This
expanded authorization was based on data from Israel, generated while the Omicron variant was
dominant. An approximately 11-fold increase in geometric mean neutralizing antibody titers
against wild-type virus, Delta and Omicron variants, respectively, were reported at two weeks
after the second booster as compared to five months after the first booster.
Here we show recently published real-world data from Israel that a fourth dose of COMIRNATY
lowered rates of hospitalization, severe illness and death amidst the Omicron outbreak. A fourth
dose is now recommended for certain high-risk populations in more than 15 countries.
There has been a notable increase in the number of pediatric infections and hospitalizations in
the last few weeks and we recognize that parents of younger children and healthcare providers
have been waiting for an effective vaccine. We have been working with urgency to generate data.
We began the rolling submissions for EUA in children aged six months to four years in February
while continuing to evaluate the third 3-microgram, which may be optimal to deliver a higher
degree of protection against Omicron. We expect to analyze and submit the three-dose data bylate May/early June and anticipate both FDA and CDC advisory committees to meet soon after
to consider the submission.
Turning to PAXLOVID, following EUA in December for both high-risk adults and high-risk children
12 and older weighing at least 40 kilogram, we expect to file soon and anticipate an FDA decision
on the new drug application in these populations in the second half of 2022.
Recently, the WHO strongly recommended PAXLOVID for people with mild-to-moderate COVID-
19 who are at the highest risk for hospitalization because they are unvaccinated, older, or
immunocompromised. We expect pivotal readouts of the standard-risk study in the second half
of 2022 and reported top line results from the household contact prophylaxis study last week.
In March, we initiated a study in children and expect to have data in the second quarter '23. We
are first enrolling children aged six to 17 years and working to develop an age-appropriate
formulation for children younger than six. A new study in immunocompromised patients is
planned to start in the second half of '22. Some immunocompromised patients were involved in
the EPIC-HR study; however, given the high unmet need, we believe EPIC-IC will allow us to
further evaluate PAXLOVID's efficacy in this population and ensure the treatment duration is
optimized, given their more limited natural immune response to help clear infection.
With the close of the Arena acquisition in March, I'd like to highlight the potential for etrasimod as
a best-in-class oral medicine for ulcerative colitis and its strategic fit within our overall
Inflammation and Immunology pipeline. First, etrasimod is differentiated. It is a once-daily pill with
rapid onset, no anticipated required titration and a promising benefit-risk profile. In the Phase 3
ELEVATE studies, etrasimod demonstrated robust clinical remission in patients with moderate to
severely active ulcerative colitis.
In March, we reported that the Elevate UC 52 trial met the co-primary endpoints of clinical
remission at both weeks 12 and 52 and all key secondary endpoints. Looking at the totality of data
across Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies, we see a 12-week remission rate of 25% to 30% compared
to placebo at 6% to 15%. We are projecting a filing in ulcerative colitis in the second half of '22.
This candidate also has broad potential beyond UC. The adaptive Phase 2/3 study in Crohn's
disease is ongoing and we expect to start Phase 3 in atopic dermatitis in the fourth quarter.
The potential expansion into Crohn's and eosinophilic esophagitis strengthens our
gastroenterology pipeline. Overall, given that the immuno-inflammatory diseases have a
heterogeneous disease drivers, which require multiple options for effective treatment and the
continued significant unmet need of patients in achieving long-term revision, we are excited
about the portfolio of diverse and promising candidates from Arena that nicely complement our
existing I&I pipeline.
Ritlecitinib is our unique cytokine modulator. It is a potent pan-TEC family inhibitor, which spares IL-
10 protective cytokines and spares dominant JAK activity of existing effective oral JAK agents. We
have seen promising Phase 2 efficacy demonstrated across alopecia, vitiligo and ulcerative colitis.
The Phase 2 study in Crohn's disease is ongoing. Ritlecitinib received FDA breakthrough
designation for alopecia, and we expect to file in the second quarter. We are finalizing potential
Phase 3 study protocols for vitiligo and exploring paths for ulcerative colitis.
In Phase 2b, ritlecitinib, demonstrated robust efficacy in both facial and total vitiligo area severity
indexes or VASI. Here, we showed a facial VASI improvement. On the left, ritlecitinib
demonstrated up to 66% improvement from baseline through week 48. Efficacy was observed
across light and dark skin types. On the right, you see two visual representations of significantLast month, we announced our intent to acquire ReViral and its respiratory syncytial virus
therapeutic candidates. RSV remains a significant unmet need globally with no approved
treatment and a proposed acquisition will strengthen our capability in infectious disease R&D with
a complementary strategy to help improve patient outcomes through treatment and prevent
illness through vaccination. This mirrors our COVID-19 strategy establishing leadership across
vaccines and therapeutics for RSV to deliver potential breakthroughs.
Our RSV candidate elicited high RSV A and RSV B neutralizing titers in preclinical animal models
and in Phase 1/2 clinical studies and has received FDA Breakthrough Designation for the maternal
and adult programs. We anticipate pivotal readouts of the maternal and adult studies in the
second half of '22. ReViral's pipeline includes a lead candidates, sisunatovir, which has received
Fast Track Designation and a second program focused on the inhibition of RSV replication
targeting that viral N-protein.
Sisunatovir is an orally administered inhibitor designed to block fusion of the RSV virus to the host
cell. In a Phase 2 healthy adults challenge study, sisunatovir significantly reduced viral load. The
data are shown on the right. There is also an ongoing three-part adaptive Phase 2 study in
hospitalized infants. Successful completion of Part A was achieved in June '21 with favorable
safety and pharmacokinetics. Part B is ongoing.
We now turn to oncology and encouraging data from the Phase 3 trial of LORBRENA. Three-year
follow-up data presented at AACR confirmed prolonged progression-free survival in first-line
ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer patients. There was a 73% reduction in risk of disease
progression or death versus crizotinib.
The three-year PFS rate in the LORBRENA arm was 63.5%. Three-year rates for second-
generation medicines or generally 20% points lower based on cross-trial assessment. No
definitive conclusion can be drawn from cross-trial comparisons. There were no new safety
signals and a low permanent discontinuation rate of 7.4% for patients on LORBRENA.
High central nervous system activity is important for patients with and without brain metastases.
Between 25% and 40% of ALK-positive patients present with brain metastases at diagnosis and
between 24% and 40% of patients develop them within two years of diagnosis. Brain metastases
are one of the most common causes of death in this patient population. Leveraging our expertise
in developing brain penetrant oncology treatments, LORBRENA was specifically designed to
meet the significant unmet need. We have seen high activity in patients with or without baseline
brain metastasis. Significant intracranial activity was observed with LORBRENA, as evidenced not
only by intracranial response rates, but also by time to intracranial progression as shown here.
At three years of follow-up, 92.3% of patients treated with LORBRENA were alive and free of
intracranial events compared with 37.7% treated with crizotinib. In LORBRENA-treated patients
without brain metastases, only 1 out of 112 patients had evidence of intracranial progression,
suggesting a potential protective effect against development of brain metastases with
LORBRENA treatment. Here, we show the first data from the pediatric cohort of the Phase 2 trial
of our Lyme disease vaccine candidate, the only one of its kind in clinical development.
Lyme disease affects all age groups, but children are considered the population most at risk due
to their outdoor activities. We saw a robust immunogenicity across all pediatric age groups and
serotypes, and the safety profile was similar to that previously reported in adults. The program
has received FDA Fast Track Designation, and we plan to include pediatric participants in the
Phase 3 trial, expected to start in the third quarter. As in adults, the immunogenicity and safetydata support a three-dose primary vaccination schedule in pediatric participants in a Phase 3
study.
Now, I'd like to highlight our robust portfolio of investigational therapies to potentially treat all
people with hemophilia. We expect a number of clinical trials for our hemophilia portfolio to
readout in '23. Marstacimab is our novel non-factor treatment candidate with the potential to
address a broad patient population as a new subcutaneous prophylactic treatment for patients
with hemophilia A or B, including those with inhibitors. We anticipate the pivotal readout in the
second quarter '23. Marstacimab has FDA Fast Track Designation for hem A and B patients with
inhibitors.
If successful, we predict submitting for the non-inhibitor indication in both hem A and B in the third
quarter of '23. Turning to our gene therapy candidates, last year at ASH we presented updated
Phase 1b/2 data from the largest cohort of persons with hemophilia B who have had at least three
years of follow-up with AAV gene therapy.
A 93% of participants achieved factor 9 activity in the mild or normal range between three to five
and half years of follow-up. We expect a pivotal readout in the first quarter of '23. In hem A, we
also presented updated Phase 1b data at ASH. Factor 8 activity was 25% of normal after two
years in the highest-dose cohort. The FDA has lifted the clinical hold on our Phase 3 pivotal study,
and we anticipate study resumption in the third quarter of this year with a pivotal readout
estimated in the second half of '23.
Finally, here are the top 25 key milestones achieved and anticipated for the rest of the year. Six in
the regulatory space, 12 pivotal readout and seven early-stage readouts. I'd also note the last
week, we announced the planned opening of the first US sites in our Phase 3 trial evaluating our
investigational mini-dystrophin in gene therapy for ambulatory patients with Duchenne muscular
dystrophy. The trial also has received regulatory approvals to restart in several other countries.
Pending regulatory feedback, we anticipate the nearly all sites will open by the end of June.
In addition, the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
granted PRIME designation for GBS6, our maternal vaccine candidate against group B
streptococcal infection. It is currently being evaluated in an ongoing Phase 2 study.
Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your questions. Now let me turn it over to
Frank.
`Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President
Thanks, Mikael. I know you've seen our release. So let me provide a few brief highlights regarding
the financials. Turning to the income statement. Revenue increased 82% operationally in the first
quarter of 2022 driven by COVID-19 vaccine and Paxlovid sales and strong performance from a
number of our other key growth drivers.
And looking at the revenue excluding the COVID-19 vaccine direct sales and alliance revenues
and Paxlovid contribution, it increased by 2% operationally. The effect of fewer selling days year-
over-year decreased revenues by about 1%, and losses of exclusivity negatively impacted
revenues by 2%.
Operational growth would have been approximately 5% without these. Also, please remember
that Q1 2021 grew 8% operationally excluding Comirnaty versus the prior year quarter, resulting in
a very different outcome comparable. This is broadly as expected and is embedded in our
current guidance.The adjusted cost of sales increase shown here reduced this quarter's gross margin by
approximately 10 percentage points, as compared to the first quarter of 2021 with 14 percentage
points attributable to the impact of higher COVID-19 vaccine sales year-over-year.
Partially mitigated by net favorable product mix for other products, primarily driven by higher
sales of Paxlovid and higher alliance revenues. Adjusted SI&A expenses in the first quarter
decreased primarily due to lower spending on corporate enabling functions, partially offset by
increased spending to Comirnaty and Paxlovid.
The increase in adjusted R&D expense this quarter was primarily driven by increased investments
in multiple late stage clinical programs as well as additional spending on programs to prevent and
treat COVID-19. The growth rate for reported diluted EPS was 59%, while adjusted diluted EPS
grew 76% operationally for the quarter. Foreign exchange movements resulted in a negative 5%
impact to revenue as well as a negative 4% impact, or $0.04 to adjusted diluted EPS.
Now let's move to our updated 2022 guidance. We expect total company revenue to be in a
range of $98 billion to $102 billion, representing an operational growth rate of 27% at the mid
point. The revenue range absorbs an additional $2 billion of anticipated negative impact from
changes in foreign exchange rates as the US dollar continued to strengthen against other
currencies since we last updated our exchange rate assumptions.
Regarding our COVID-19-related revenues, we continue to expect a vaccine revenue for the year
to be approximately $32 billion, unchanged compared to our prior guidance provided on February
8 despite the impact of $1 billion of incremental negative foreign exchange. For Paxlovid, we
expect sales of approximately $22 billion, keeping the guidance unchanged despite an
incremental $500 million headwind due to foreign exchange. This means that excluding the
COVID-19-related revenues, we expect sales to be approximately $46 billion at the mid point,
representing operational growth of 5% and absorbing the increased negative impact of about
$500 million for foreign exchange. While this is slightly below the 6% CAGAR that we continue to
expect between 2020 and 2025, we continue to be confident in our ability to achieve that 2025
target.
Now, let me give some detail on our cost and expense guidance. We slightly improved our
guidance for adjusted cost of sales, reducing the entire range by 20 basis points with the new
range being 32% to 34%. We have separated the former R&D line into two, R&D and a new line
for acquired IPR&D to isolate the IPR&D charges, which are driven by business development
transactions.
Our guidance includes $900 million of this expense for 2022 based on business development
transactions, which have either already closed or are already signed as of mid April of which only
$100 million was previously assumed in our R&D guidance for adjusted results. We will not
forecast acquired R&D for transactions, which are not closed or signed.
We've also increased our adjusted R&D expense guidance by $500 million to reflect incremental
lifecycle spending for COVID-19 vaccines and antivirals and investments in other projects. In
addition, as noted with fourth quarter results, we made a decision to modify our adjusted results
treatment of amortization of intangibles. Previously, we only excluded amortization related to
large mergers and acquisitions, but we will now exclude all intangible asset amortization expense.
This is anticipated to contribute $0.06 to our 2022 adjusted diluted earnings per share, and
improves comparability with our peers. This success was previously included in our 2022
guidance. These assumptions yield an adjusted diluted EPS range of $6.25 to $6.45 or 61%This updated EPS guidance includes a $0.10 operational improvement, offset by a negative $0.11
due to foreign exchange and another $0.11 due to IPR&D. Together, these impacts net out to
adjusted EPS range, which is $0.10 lower than our initial guidance. A 2022 guidance once again
assumes no incremental share repurchases beyond the $2 billion of share repurchases we
completed in March.
Going forward, we will continue to be prudent in our capital allocation activities with the
opportunities for deployment shown here on this slide. So before I turn the call back to Chris to
start the Q&A session, I wanted to make a personal comment. This conference call will mark my
last as Pfizer's CFO, and I wish Dave and Pfizer all the success in the world.
It has been my immense pleasure and privilege to serve as Pfizer's CFO for nearly 15 years. I
have always enjoyed my interactions with you, our investors and our analysts, and I will miss them.
To my Pfizer colleagues, I am so proud of what we have accomplished together, and I look
forward to your achieving even more success in the future. And as a large Pfizer shareholder, you
can be sure that I'll be watching.
With that let me turn it over to Chris for Q&A.
Questions And Answers
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Frank. With that, let's start the Q&A session. We will answer as many questions as time
permits, and as always Investor Relations will be available after the call to answer any questions
you weren't able to ask. Operator, first question please.
Operator
Your first question comes from the line of `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. And Frank, thank you for all your contributions to Pfizer. And we
will really miss working with you. So first question I have for you is, William, what are your initial
impressions of Pfizer having come recently from the outside? And then the second question I had
is, what is the opportunity for a potential EU Paxlovid contract and sales potential in China? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
William, why don't you start with your impressions.
A - `William Pao, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. Louise, thanks for the question. Yeah, I would say, I have been, my expectations have been
exceeded. Many reasons I came to Pfizer, but one of them was the great science that's going on,
the real dedication to breakthrough innovation, but also the pace with which things have been
done and seeing Pfizer accomplish Paxlovid and the vaccine were really inspiring and I came to
further build upon that and really transform how we do drug development.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, William. Angela, do you want to take a little bit the EU Paxlovid contract?A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Yes. Thanks for the question Louise. So you know, in Europe I would say that we're really taking a
sort of a two-pronged approach to our contracting. One, we have bilateral agreements that have
actually either been secured or about to be secured with many of our countries, but in addition to
that, we're also looking at an EU level contract. So I think more on that to come as we -- whenever
we are ready to share what the outcome of that is that just suffice to say that we're using both
approaches in Europe.
On China, what I am able to share is that we are working with a local distributor called Meheco to
distribute and to ensure access to Paxlovid in China. And that's what I'm able to say right now. I'm
not really able to share more about the terms of the agreement or the volumes or anything
related to that, so thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Angela. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets with BMO.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Hey guys. Thank you so much for taking my question and congrats on the quarter. So I have two
on COVID. One, when we think about the evolution of the booster market, how do you see this
going? We've seen some data suggesting that we're kind of walking blindly into recommending
boosters every so often. What's the ultimate goal of vaccination? Is it to prevent mild
symptomatic disease or is it really just to prevent a severe disease and overloading at the
hospitals?
And then my second question is, when we think about the evolution of the commercial model for
Paxlovid, can you talk to that when do you expect to maybe file an NDA and transition to where at
least in the United States from kind of government contracting to more traditional commercial
models? Thank you so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you for your questions. Let me see if I can answer and then I will ask our scientists if
they have something to add. On the evolution of booster, I think all of us, it is there. I'm not
moving blindly. We are moving based on data and the reason why they recommend, it is because
data supporting according to their opinion.
I believe that right now, the effort is to be able to stay ahead of the virus and the virus mutates
and the most serious mutation with recent was the Omicron (inaudible) because that was the one
that was able to evade the new protection of us. Until then I think, the vaccines were offering
very, very good protection against disease and of course, an excellent protection against
hospitalization and deaths.
With Omicron, we saw that while we keep a very good protection against hospitalizations and
deaths, the protection against the disease is going down. So we have seen that with three or
more data that fourth dose of the current vaccine protects significantly folds, many folds the
patients from either hospitalizations or death and of course, also protects the infections, but notAnd everybody's working also for new vaccines that will be able to protect better against
Omicron while maintaining the same protection against the wildtypes. We are very advanced with
our studies and we are waiting to hear from FDA, what basically combinations they would
recommend, what they would like to see at the EMA and we will be ready the day one with our
vaccines, both in terms of filing and both in terms of manufacturing. As regard to Paxlovid, right
now we are completing the studies and I will ask Mikael to comment when we think that we can
file for NDA.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
Yeah. We will file NDA quite soon this half of the year and look forward to, as soon as possible,
pending review getting it approved, which would allow even more engagement with the medical
and other communities. So we think that would be very helpful in order to increase education and
access to the medicine.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And anything to add on the booster and how we are looking at it?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
You said it just got very well how this has been science driven and Pfizer is proud to be leading,
being often the first for whether it is primary series of boost or new age group. So I just wanted
to add that we expect pending the VRBPAC to start the fall season with the vaccination
campaign, a new boost, which will be critical than to regain and as Albert alluded to possibly
further strengthen versus new evolution that we're seeing in Omicron.
And it's likely going to be an annual procedure with these type of public recommendation about
strains and for some more vulnerable patient groups, immunocompromised, older, we have
learned that it may be even in between an extra dose. So we are on top of the science, and we
expect every year to be able to incorporate new science. We're doing multiple learnings on how
to further evolve the vaccine and see us as a natural leader as we have established such deep
insights.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
William, anything to add? Thank you. Okay, then next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Hey, thanks for taking my question. Maybe one question regarding Paxlovid. So, it seems like you
have mentioned six million courses, the sales is about $1.5 billion, so this calculates to about $250
per course price. So, am I calculating it right?
And number two, you seem like you suggesting that all 20 million courses in 2Q would be
shipped. So, is that correct? And the pricing should be lower or higher than $250 per course?
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yes. Thank you very much, Mohit. No, there is a disconnect. Let me try to explain it. We did
produce six million doses by the end of March. From them, only 4.2 or 4.3 were shipped outside
in March. The remainder were shipped in the first week of April basically, but also from the 4.2
that we have shipped, a very small proportion -- a smaller proportion was recorded as revenues
in this quarter. Why? Because most of them were shipped in March and everything that we
shipped in the US in March counts for Q1, but everything that we see shipped internationally in Q1
accounts for Q2 in the accounting calendar what we have. So the doses that are made this $1.5
billion of sales is a way smaller than six million doses that you referred.
In terms of what we expect, we expect in this quarter to have a 24 million doses, so by the end of
June to have been able to produce 30 million doses altogether, Clearly some of them, again, will
be shipped in July. Clearly some of that will be shipped in June in international markets. So you
should not be calculating as it happened in this quarter that everything will go into, let's say, the
second quarter of all this volume. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thanks so much for taking the questions. I know it's a little too early to give 2023 guidance
but maybe Angela or Frank, if you could just help us think about the puts and takes for Comirnaty
for next year. And if you think consensus is in the right range at $17 billion to $18 billion.
And then my second question relates to etrasimod for ulcerative colitis. Mikael based on your
comments, it seems like the placebo response rate in the Phase 3 trial might have been slightly
higher than Phase 2, just wondering if that's accurate and any additional insight you could share
there. Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thanks. Thanks very much, Terence. Look, I will ask Frank, but good luck, he will not give you
guidance for the product and he will not give you guidance for '23, but let's see how he responds
to that question. And then, Mikael, can you speak about it rationally?
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President
So I'm not going to provide (Multiple Speakers) guidance, but obviously you saw what we did for
2022 guidance. We reiterated the guidance on Paxlovid (inaudible) $54 billion approximately
revenue while absorbing $1.5 billion of foreign exchange and you know if you listened to the
commentary, we've, as of our Paxlovid, we remain bullish on Paxlovid if you look at some of the
recent trends and you look at some of the charts that I provided in terms of 10-fold growth from
the end of February to mid if April, the number of sites that were at 33,000 sites now, so the
rhythm of that of that product looks very good and we remain very bullish.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Of course, I would say that for 2023, there are obviously lot of puts and takes because there will
be likely new innovation that is coming that we need to see how that pledged and also the
changes in the business markets. Right? There is a chance that the US will go to the private
market in the next year. I think, likely internationally they will continue with government of
purchases, and we do have the contracts for these purchases that goes '23 and beyond in '24.So, there are a lot of puts and takes that will be in play here, but let's move to something that is
very interesting attachment.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President
Yeah, thank you for your interest, Terence in that and I think of course the enthusiasm I shared
was based on the pivotal studies that will be filed and (inaudible) noted that one of them did
have a placebo. Right? It's slightly higher. The more extensive of the Phase 3 had a traditional
placebo rate and a very nice delta between treated and untreated. As you know for great drugs,
you would like to see in the range or maybe a 20% delta and why we won't give you all details as
we're expecting data soon to be presented this year at the proper conference.
I can assure you that we saw a very nice favorable delta for etrasimod treated. We talked about
12-week remission rate in our earnings talking point to drive it very well in the 52-week
maintenance phase and all secondary endpoints are looking very favorable. So that's really why
we think it can be both a best-in-class and in some way a best-in-disease given its convenience,
its rapid onset of action, it's well tolerated profile. So, thank you for your interest.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, operator. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of the `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Mizuho Securities with Mizuho.
Q - `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
Great, thanks for taking my questions. Maybe just shifting gears a little bit to the quarter, and
some of the core products you sell. One on Q is what Ibrance, especially in US, because we, I
mean, you mentioned again in the release was down 5% and some of this was through the
patient assistance program. And I guess I assume of thought that was more of 2021, dynamic of
going through the pandemic and by this year may actually be more of a positive pricing benefit
that you see. So, maybe you can just kind of shed a little bit more color on what you're seeing in
the market there?
And then the second one is on Xeljanz. It is obviously down quite a bit. We don't know what the
safety issues (inaudible), I'm just trying to get a better sense of how you see that product. sort of
going forward. You obviously have good immunology pipeline and a lot of other assets to
leverage here, but do you see sort of Xeljanz stabilizing here? Or do you think (inaudible) will
continue to decline? So how would you sort of use our price outlook on the rest of the year and
then in the next year or two, going forward? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Vamil. Very, very good questions, both of them. So, Angela, start with Ibrance then you
to Xeljanz.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
So, let's talk about Ibrance first. Just from a performance perspective, I just want to emphasize
that Ibrance still by far in a way the undisputed leader in the CDK class. Actually, in an ex-US, it
grew 12% this quarter and as you mentioned accurately, it did have a negative 5% growth in the
US and this was largely due to the PAP. In fact, if you strip that out, TRx volume actually grew 3% inthe US for Ibrance. So, it's really this high proportion of unpaid Rx's that led us to this revenue
growth and so on.
Just to give you a sense of the scale of the PAP, compared to a year ago, we have seen a 32%
increase in PAP applications; and however, Q1 was similar to where we were in Q4 in terms of the
number of enrollees, but maybe if we step back, it's maybe not so surprising that Ibrance will
have such a high proportion of PAP because it is the market leader.
More than 75% of all the scripts in the CDK class along to a part of Ibrance and so if you link that
to the financial hardships that are still in the economy and you link back to the fact that they are
reduced alternate sourcing of financial assistance, which is driving more people to Ibrance PAP.
Also, just from an annual perspective, patients enroll in January most of them and that they stay
for the years, I think what we're seeing is approximately what we're going to continue to see for
the remaining of the -- but maybe the important message here is that this does not mean that
there is no growth opportunity for Ibrance even in 2022.
We know that there is tremendous growth opportunity in the CDK class and our ability to make
this pie bigger is going to be great for patients as well. We saw just in the last year, an increase of
the CDK class from when we were in Q1 of 2021, which was just 48% to where we are now this
quarter in 2022 which is 54%, so this positive momentum of the growth of the class is something
that we are very focused on in addition to the fact that of course over the pandemic, we did see
some lag in new patient starts and new diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer patients or delays
in putting them on treatment. And so, that's another area of focus for us as well that will help to
drive the increased momentum around Ibrance. So, that's Ibrance.
So, let's spend a minute talking about Xeljanz and your question around sort of where are with
Xeljanz and what do we see? And we definitely see 2022 as a year of transition for us. Why? Well,
first, when you step back and look at Xeljanz performance, you have to look beyond Xeljanz. It's
not just about the product. It's also about the class. And so, just to give you some numbers on
what has happened in the class over the last year, so between this quarter and same quarter last
year in 2021, the new to brand prescriptions and the JAK class actually went down 40%. Now,
Xeljanz went down 50, but we also saw products like Rinvoq of products in the JAK class go
down by 35%.
So, when we look at growth, it's important that the class returns to growth as well. I say that '22 is
going to be a year of transition for Xeljanz because we finally have a clear label and with this
label, we're going to be able to focus on the post-TNF segment as our place and as the place
where Xeljanz can play and this market is also significant because we know that many patients
don't respond to TNF's and most will need options beyond TNFs.
And finally, we are seeing some nice signs of stabilization compared to where we were over the
last year. For the first time, our new-to-brand Rx's are stable. This is declining. We're also seeing
that there are switches back into Xeljanz versus just purely away from Xeljanz. In our market
research, we see an increase in the intention to prescribe by healthcare professionals. And then
finally, also in the market research, we see that the safety perceptions of Xeljanz are equivalent
to that of Rinvoq, so it demonstrates the playing field in the JAK class as ground leveling. So,
we're really focused on education. We have massive education efforts behind Xeljanz to
reestablish where and how Xeljanz should be used and that's what gives us confidence that we
can return Xeljanz to growth.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `Thank you, Angela. As always, very comprehensive answering. Operator to the next question
please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg with Berenberg.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Hi, thank you. A couple of questions please. Firstly on the vaccine, I noted in your 10-K that you
expect to recognize at least $11.8 billion in revenues in 2023. Should we think about that as a floor
for next year based on the contracts you've already signed? And instead, have you signed any
further contracts for delivery in 2023 and beyond since you published at 10-K in February?
Secondly on the RSV vaccine. I saw in slide 36, you are not confirming the Phase 3 data readout
(inaudible) vaccine now in the second half of the year. Is that solely reflecting expansion of the
patient population using a study? Do you need to run into another RSV season? Or are you still
evaluating annual RSV vaccinations in this study? The lastly, when do you aim to file a launch
product in the US? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So, thank you very much, Kerry. Frank, do you want to give the answer on?
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President
Just in terms of 2023.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President
We'll talk about 2023 in detail when we provide 2023 guidance, which will be on our fourth
quarter earnings call. We'll talk about the puts and takes. We will explain where we are at this
year, where we are at next year, what the growth drivers are? And, obviously that will include what
the revenues will be for the COVID vaccine. So that's to come.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And then Mikael if you want to take the RSV question about the season, the filing.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
Yeah.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And then, William, if you have anything to add, please.
A - `William Pao, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Okay.Yeah, you know as I spoke in the introduction, Pfizer is very excited about the portfolio of the RSV
vaccine and RSV therapeutics. And I think we have had very strong data in the Phase 2 challenge
study complete protection and also in the maternal study where we actually, with small numbers,
had 85% efficacy and very strong immunogenicity across the A and B strains.
I believe, we are the only one with such a comprehensive data set. starting with the maternal, to
the best of my knowledge, we are really the only advanced RSV vaccine there. We talked
opportunity as we had sites opening up in Latin America to also capture from that region of the
world and in this now 2022 season more cases to add to our study.
And we expect in a couple to a few months to have the readout based on we are going out for
the maternal and relatively shortly thereafter this year, the adult trial is expected based on
comprehensive set of sites also in the Southern Hemisphere. So it's really a perfect composition
of RSV cases from different parts of the world.
And I look forward very much to the readouts and remain very optimistic, is one of my favorite
programs
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mine as well. William, any thing to add?
A - `William Pao, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
I would just add that you mentioned already Mikael that both programs got breakthrough
designation. And so we're very excited about it.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Of course, everybody recognized that it is apparently the favorite programs of FDA. Let's move
to the next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen and Company with Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Thank you very much and thank you, Frank, for everything and all the best to you in the future. I
have a follow-up on the RSV vaccine in which ACIP meeting in 2023 with the Pfizer vaccine most
likely be considered and I assume, of course, you have not seen premature birth in the maternal
study, but do you have a theory as to why you haven't when your competitor has?
And then a question on Eliquis for Angela, to what degree has bleeding risk limited prescribing of
Eliquis? And if a drug came along that was associated with less bleeding, do you think that would
be a significantly preferred agent? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Angela, why don't you take the ACIP meeting and then also the question on the
bleeding. And then we can go to Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `Sure. The schedule for ACIP is just closely held by the ACIP, the working group and the CDC, so
it's a really difficult thing for me to be able to predict, but typically it's sort of within the two- to
three-month period of from launch. Right? Because you know that it only happened several times
of the year. So you really need to be up to catch it right to be able to meet whatever the next
meeting is. So, I honestly think that's a very difficult question to answer, but suffice to say that of
course, we will work as rapidly as possible to ensure that it gets on the schedule off the very next
one post launch.
On your question around bleeding, it has not been one that has come up actually for Eliquis in
large measure I have to say, our performance continues to be really strong, We're the number
one NOAC in 24 markets. We have the number one oral anticoagulant in 21 other markets.
So I'd say that the uptake of Eliquis outperformance, which as you can see, this quarter continues
to be double-digit. I think it's the 10th year in a row that we've had double-digit growth on Eliquis
and we continue to see tremendous market share and utilization. So I would say that that has not
been an issue that we have seen. Right. And if I could just punctuate. If you look at the revenue
number this quarter for Eliquis, the revenue number is $1.8 billion almost, up 12% operationally,
continued, continued strong performance by that product.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Exactly. And also, I wanted also to add to Angela's comment that, of course, we can't predict
ACIP will do whatever they think is appropriate to do, but we do know that RSV is considered by
CDC as a major disease threat and I'm sure that, as always, that we will demonstrate the
appropriate urgency to deal with the vaccine if it is registered.
Mikael, there was this question about pretty much bears that we do not have. And if you can
provide some why we don't and why (inaudible).
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
Well, we have a very deep and long experience how to design vaccines for different patient
groups. As this is for maternal, we obviously developed a very well-tolerated vaccine and we
were able without the need of any harsh adjuvants to get very high immune responses that
included that we use both RSV A and B antigens, I believe we are the only one that have that
going.
I can't really be certain on the other vaccine you're referring to, but certainly it's not an advantage
to use an adjuvant that was known to give a very significant local and systemic adjuvant directions
for a fragile patient group like maternal. So we feel very bullish that we are the main vaccine in
the maternal with only that have a bivalent (Technical Difficulty) strong data behind it, and look
very much forward to the readouts.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, sir. Operator, let's move to the next call please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Colin Bristow, Analyst, UBS with UBS.
Q - `Colin Bristow, Analyst, UBS `Good morning and thanks for taking the questions and I wanted to say all the best to Frank. So a
couple on my side. On the business development front, could you comment on how large a deal
you would be willing to consider? And is there a preference in marketed assets or pipeline or
some combination of the two?
And then just in terms of disease spaces, yeah, I'd be curious to hear how you view the rare
disease category as an area of potential business development from here. And then just a quick
one on Paxlovid. Understanding your prior comments, but I just want to get a sense here on what
is the risk that we end '22 and obviously the doses have been purchased, but essentially
stockpiled or not utilized which could subsequently impact '23 onwards. Thanks a lot.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Why don't we start with the BD questions and I will ask `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President to speak
about it.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Colin, thanks for your question. On our BD focus, I think we've been very clear that compounds
that have the potential to be breakthroughs is where our focus is and these can be in the form of
late-stage clinical development that can be in earlier medical innovations as well, as well as early
launches.
We're going to bias to the TAs where we have scientific and commercial expertise because we
can add value and we're going to be flexible on deal structures and on your question on size,
we've been very clear in the past that we're agnostic to size, but we're not going to focus on
deals where cost synergies are the primary source of value creation and we are going to focus
on deals where we can add value, we have a scope to have impact and where there's going to
be revenue impact in the '25 to '30 time period. So that is our current focus.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Aamir. And, as we said also multiple times, it is important to see Pfizer as a
partner of choice. So it is important to see Pfizer as the company that can add value either by
acquiring or by partnering molecules with companies to the some extent that we have proven
with other biotechs that we can provide benefits to patients by putting our capabilities into work.
And that I think it is that we're moving forward. And clearly, we are focusing on filling the gap
between '25 and '30. We started this call again by myself making comments with we reiterate
that we plan to have $25 billion of risk-adjusted revenues with our obvious expectations by the
year 2030.
And we feel that we are moving as per plan to achieve that goal. Now, let me turn to Angela to
speak a little bit about Paxlovid and the question about, is that an added risk, but the quantities
will be purchased will not be utilized.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
So I think when we think about that our contracts and what has been purchased, we also think a
lot about demand. Right? Like generating demand and utilizing products. And I think that the US
gives us the good example of what you can see when utilization and adoption picks up. You
heard from Albert's opening presentation that just in the last few weeks, we saw the
prescriptions of Paxlovid grow 10 times. And just in one week alone, we got as high as 80,000You also heard that there are 30,000 sites that are available now in the US that dispensed
Paxlovid and that is increasing. Deep dive to those Test to Treat sites, which were only 1,100 at
the beginning of April and now have doubled to 2,000 and then you add upon that, the US
Government's announcements around their focus on increasing more sites.
All of this is showing us that momentum around Paxlovid is real and that there are a few sort of,
like key levers that open up this access. One is the number of sites and the proximity to patients
and two, it's the education around how to use Paxlovid and who are the patients that are eligible.
And so when you think about what has happened in the US, you now are beginning to see that
have been around the world as well. We see that demand is increasing. You heard Albert speak
about how countries that have purchased from us are now coming back with reorders.
You're also seeing in, across many countries, how they are changing the eligibility for criteria for
Paxlovid as well as a number of sites where Paxlovid can be accessed, much like what we're
seeing here in the US. And so I think when you add all of this up, what we are seeing is the fact
that there is demand for this product. We also see that the social -- the removal of the mask
mandate, the social distancing, requirements that have been removed, you also know that in the
EU that just in the last week that removed the emergency period of the EUA that means that
people are going to get out there.
We know with all of that, infections are going to increase. And that's the role that Paxlovid can
play. So, we're intently focused on working with national governments, state governments and
helping them to educate to take up great lessons learned from around all the different countries
to help them to utilize Paxlovid.
And importantly what we're also seeing is that it's not as we don't have any inventory ahead,
every dose that we produce is being shipped out and is being ordered. So I think all of these give
us a lot of confidence that there is a demand for Paxlovid. We know what we need to do to
support the utilization of Paxlovid and we will continue to drive that throughout the year as we
anticipate further surges in the COVID infections.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Angela. And also what Angela said, I want to reiterate that unlike what we have seen with
the partners of vaccines that the governments were trying because of lack of manufacturing
capacity to build stocks. Right now, the orders that are coming are orders not for the entire year,
there are orders for the immediate needs of the countries. And this is why we have repeated
order of (inaudible) that we see internationally.
Okay, thank you very much. Lets move to the next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays.
Q - `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays `
Right. Good morning, and best of luck to post Pfizer endeavors. I appreciate all the color on
Paxlovid right there. May be moving to the pipeline, in highlighting UC franchise in the slides, you
focused on etrasimod and look like notably didn't mention your TL1A program. Has your
enthusiasm there shifted now that you have the induction data in-house?And on the IRAK4 side, I saw the discontinuation in HS. Is that changed in any way? How we
should think about development in RA? I believe that got removed from your early stage readout
calendar. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Carter. Mikael, the floor is yours.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
Yeah. I did speak about that etrasimod creates a very rounded and comprehensive pipeline. I
think the TL1A date that we have in our hands and it will be, I shared earlier in previous earnings
call, some of it is very strong. Actually, to the best of my knowledge in the biomarker selected
group, it is probably the strongest or among the very strong growth that I have seen.
I think it can be a very much complementary ride to etrasimod and we also know that the TL1A
principal not is anti-inflammatory but also play a role in fibrosis. We didn't have much time to
speak about ritlecitinib beyond our real exciting data that we shared in vitiligo. We also have
additional inflammatory drugs that are coming to readouts with strong data behind them for
potential start of the pivotal such as in different beta, in inflammatory muscle diseases. So I would
just say we have the advantage of a richness now of inflammatory drugs, and really building a
pipeline with complementary approaches and we hope to share more which are the ones that will
be kicked off soon as to from the many options that we now have in our hands, but TL1A clearly a
very active drug.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi with Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Couple of questions please. Firstly, Pfizer is leader in cardiology from persistent
hemostasis. Four of your competitors have Factor XI(a) inhibitors in clinical development. There is
still significant unmet needs in thrombosis despite the NOACs, I'm curious as to why you have
passed on the opportunity, and what data would make you change your mind review your
decision.
And then the second question is going back to the barriers, the Paxlovid adoption that have
existed historically, you've addressed addressing the access barriers, but in terms of physician
education and holding back describing because of fear of supply, patient awareness. How would
you delineate the percentage contribution of those to the current under-utilization of Paxlovid?
And what do you think of the timelines for knocking down the separate reasons? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael, why don't you take the cardiology question.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
Yeah. First of all, we think the breakthrough where the Eliquis, the NOACs, was so dramatic forvery complicated dosing and risk for bleedings. While we monitor new drug classes, including the
one that you have mentioned, we really want to see a similar step up in breakthrough potential as
we saw with Eliquis and we haven't yet been convinced about that step-up, but we are carefully
monitoring and internal medicine and cardiometabolic diseases is an area that we think are very
interesting and you of course heard us speak about (inaudible) as another very important growth
area.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. And then Angela, what about the education with regard to do alone or with
governments to address other barriers of Paxlovid like the perception that is not available or
others stuff that Andrew spoke about.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Well education is key and it underpins the promotion of all of our products, but I think the first
comment I have to make is that you all know we're under an EUA and in this EUA, we are really --
we have limited by what we are allowed to talk about and also limited by the level of promotion
that we would typically do.
And that's why you see that much of the education that is occurring right now is coming from the
government, whether that's the CDC or at the state level, state departments of health and how
they have chosen to roll out the messages regarding antiviral treatments. Of course with
supplementing that by what we can do, we've put public service announcements out there,
we've utilized our field force in the appropriate way to convey what we're able to through an
EUA.
And there is just a significant amount of medical education as well that we are doing, again also in
an EUA appropriate way to support our brand. But of course, this doesn't look anything like what
we would typically do if we had a full commercial launch where we would have the ability to really
deploy the entirety of our promotional engine towards education and towards support of both
patients and physicians.
So I would say that the education is happening and we are doing our part and I think that there is
a lot more that can be done, but I think the second part of your question was also around how
much does this contribute to the bigger issue and I want to say that a truly the ability to access
this product quickly is one that even though this has been great improvements, I think that there
is still a long way to go.
Even with all the improvements that we have had recently, we're still a fraction, I would say, under
half of all the possible retail locations where Paxlovid could be found. So, it's tremendous that
we're seeing this uplift. But, I would say that we need to continue on the path of where we've
been and continue to do more, because there is still a lot more that can be done.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. And, of course I want also to add that I have also never seen the government
being so active. They truly believe that it is a way to control hospitalizations and deaths. And that
we see that their own educational campaigns are working because as we have seen, there is a
10-fold increase asking a few weeks. And I think that together with all the measures that they are
taking, I think will yield even more impressive results and confidence. Let's go to the next
question please.Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase and Company with JPMorgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase and Company `
All right, great, thanks very much. Just two additional Paxlovid ones. I think in this question of kind
of contracting. It seems like we saw a lot of activity late last year, early this year, but it's been a bit
more quiet, I guess more recently on the contracting front. So, I know you're expecting more
contracts for Paxlovid, but just qualitatively, can you just give us a sense of how broad of a swath
of the market has already entered in contracts that are going to satisfy demand this year relative
to how large of a portion of I guess a realistic global market are still in negotiations and still need
to come up with some agreements. I'm trying to sense of like what is the TAM look like versus
what's been contracted?
And then my second just one on Paxlovid was, there seems to have been several data points of
kind of Paxlovid, I guess like kind of COVID rebound occurring in some patients. Is that something
you're seeing in your data and just how you're thinking about it kind of addressing that, as we
kind of learn more about the longer term outcomes in some patients there? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, thank you very much, Chris. Excellent question. Angela, what about our contracting?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
Well, I'd have to say that I'm really pleased with how our contracting has gone. You heard Albert
talk about 100 countries that we are engaging with and actually compared to where we were last
quarter, we've made some really nice and significant progress. In terms of the number of
countries, just to give you a sense, we've actually -- when we think about the $22 billion in
guidance. Right? Plus a $500 million that we're absorbing from foreign exchange, when you think
about that part of revenue, it really consists countries that we have finalized contracts with as well
as countries that we anticipate to close shortly. So, there are sort of two buckets of countries in
there.
And what I'm happy to say is that compared to where we were in the first quarter, we are three
times larger in terms of the number of countries that have actually finalized contracts. So, that's
the first thing. But, in addition to that we have bilaterals that have either been completed or
about to be completed with the 60 countries and that doesn't count on multilateral agreements
that we're also having. You heard about UNICEF earlier today from Albert, we have others as well
in the works. So, I think when you think about the total addressable market, as you say, I think that
we are not done, but we have come through a large proportion of them and that gives me great
confidence in our ability to meet the guidance about that we provided you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And also I want to reemphasize that what is different from the Paxlovid contracts is that we
signed the contract with typically, they started with smaller volumes and then they keep ordering
and reordering. It's very important to have the legal framework so whether country can order
first, which we have done, but they are ordering based on their needs rather than based on the
patients to build stocks, which that also by itself, so that the same contract you expect more,
because it's not the cover, the whole year, but of course all will depend on the usage in the field.We are optimistic, but we need to see how their uses in the field will go. William, would you want
to take a the COVID rebound?
A - `William Pao, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. So, we take very seriously the case reports that have been anecdotal so far in terms of
potential rebound in symptoms after treatment with Paxlovid. To respond to that, we've taken
some preliminary look at our Epic high-risk data and so we've seen for example that about
incidents about 2% of that viral load rebound, but we also see the same or close to the same
percent in the placebo arm. So, it's something that's not particularly associated with Paxlovid, but
may have something to do with the virus itself.
We've also looked for patient characteristics and potential recurrence of severe symptoms and
we haven't seen any association with patient characteristics or severe symptoms developing in
these patients who rebound. And then finally, we haven't seen any association with mutations in
the (inaudible), which is the target actually. So it's preliminary data so far. We again, take it very
seriously, but it's occurring into very low incidents and we continue to learn as we go along.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Mikael, any thing to add there?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
It was a very good response, Will. So I'll just add as we do surveillance of patients in very large
databases and we have access to more than 300,000 Paxlovid treated in one of the databases,
we have reports of this happening in less -- in about 0.005% or less, which is less than 1 out of
3,000 treated patients. So, overall it's quite uncommon. But, as Will spoke about, it's not really
related to Paxlovid, but more to the individuals that in their need to clear the virus, and it is a virus
that can either reinfect patients or there can be reservoirs left in the patients.
Now what we also learn is that for some patients immunocompromised, they may carry these
virus for very, very long time, and we see that area as a real new opportunity growth area for
Paxlovid to do very well where you may need to take multiple courses over a year or even treat
with extended ratio and that's something we're now planning to study in order to expand the use
of Paxlovid worried may be the most appropriate and lifesaving drug.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And as Mikael said, the work of Paxlovid is to reduce the viral load. And so as a result, how your
body overcome the disease faster and without serious consequences. It could be that in some
cases, there is a rebound as well as why the level speaks about the second treatment, but they
can be given and also we need to think that if by reducing and it seems in all these that have
been reported that's they we did what they're supposed to do, which is reduce the virus lot,
because it became negative. So then they came back, I can only imagine if without help of
Paxlovid, what would be the clinical symptoms of the patients that the infection is coming back.
So, let's not forget that this is for people that already sick and we help them go easy with their
disease easier than without the Paxlovid and so far it is working extremely well. Let's go to the
next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research.Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, I have a couple of questions. Prevnar 20 in pediatrics, important franchise pieces 75% of
current usage, it looks like the readout of your peds trials has slipped from first half to second
half. I'm wondering, if you can explain why. And if that impacts your confidence in the readout at
all?
Second question, your biosimilars are growing. Your press release mentions interchangeable
HUMIRA. We have no real precedent with Part D biosimilars in the US. My view has been that
(inaudible) is going to hold on to more share than what they've been guiding for. But as you're on
the other side of this, I'd love to get your perspective. I know you're launch the year away, but
what are your expectations for uptake in the US for biosimilar, HUMIRA, whether it's yours or
anyone else's. And how do you think that will compare to what we've seen with biosimilars with
Part D drugs like Avastin?
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. Mikael, Prevnar trending?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, `
Yeah, it's a very minor shift, we were predicting earlier mid of the year and we now see it will
come in the second half, not too far away from our original prediction is what I believe and it was
just affected by COVID and then ease so which we could get infants vaccinate and so overall, it's
on track for a readout. We had a very good readout with adult. I have no reason to believe that
we won't have also very good performance in the clinical trial or the pediatric.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. On the part of the uptake of biosimilars from Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
So, we are optimistic about the uptake of biosimilars. I think we've learned a lot over the last
several years. And if, you look at our experience with Inflectra, you look at our experience recently
with our six biosimilars in oncology, and they've just obtained tremendous market share. I think
that physicians and institutions have become extremely comfortable with the use of biosimilars. If
I compare our experience with Inflectra when that was first launched, infliximab and I compare
that to what I see now with the six biosimilars, we just launched in oncology, very different
experiences in terms of willingness, in terms of uptake and comfort for physician to use it.
So, I think we're very far from where we were when we first launched our first biosimilar here in
the US that coupled with the interchangeability data should mean that we would be able to gain a
fair market share.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Meacham with Bank of America.
Q - `Alex Hanna, Analyst, Bank of America `Well, hi, this is `Alex Hanna, Analyst, Bank of America on for Geoff Meacham. Thanks for taking our questions. Maybe to
follow up on the previous response. What's the Paxlovid capacity like? To what extent is guidance
constrained by any limiting factor, whether in terms of production or potentially distribution? In
other words, if the contracts were there, to what extent do you think they could adjust in near
term. And then, can you maybe comment on the pace of business development, as we think
about some of your longer term growth targets and where you sit now, those GAAP, are you still
comfortable with the current trajectory? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
On the Paxlovid capacity, we are on plan. So we will make 30 million treatments available this
year, excuse me, this June, the first half of the year. We have already build our capacity, we can
make 120 million by the by the end of the year. I don't think given this very high ramp-up capacity,
will become a limiting factor to governments to place orders and anyway, as we see, we don't
have situations that they are placing orders that they're keeping in their warehouse.
So, they are placing orders so that they can use. So, it's always manageable reordering. And we
will be able to meet this demand, particularly. We are cognizant that waves are coming, so far not
necessarily in terms of seasonality, but everybody expects that when you come after most
gatherings in the summer or as we are entering into the flu season, there will be, let's say,
dramatic uptake. So, in that period of time, we have really a lot of Paxlovid available, so I don't
foresee any issues on that.
And then on the, what was the second question?
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
The pace of business development?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
The pace of business development. Aamir, you want to take that?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. Alex, thanks for the question. You heard Albert very clearly reiterate our commitment to $25
billion in risk adjusted revenue by 2030 and we fully believe that we can and will get there. We're
going to be very active in BD, and that also means being thoughtful and thorough and disciplined.
So, when we see a great opportunity. We're not going to hesitate to move fast and I think some
of our recent deals are good examples of that and our ReVira acquisition is a good example of
our first move towards that goal. And at the same time, we're not going to be hurried or cavalier
just for the sake of doing deals quickly, so we will move fast, we will be thoughtful, we'll be
disciplined and we are very confident in the aspiration that we've put out.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And I want it once more to reiterate. We truly think there is substrate to do good deals that will
provide us $30 billion risk adjustment, but we are going to be disciplined. We can accomplish
them. It is -- I will accomplish all of that without compromising on financial returns that are
expected and we truly feel that we can accomplish both and we'll accomplish of course in the
next few years we need to do to complete this activity so that we will be able to have an impact
in the '25 to 2030 period of time, but I reiterate there is substrate to do good deals and we will
do a lot but only good deals.A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
$25 billion by 2030.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
$25 billion by 2030. What did I say?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
You said $30 billion.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
A $25 billion by 2030 (inaudible). So let's go to the next question.
Operator
Your final question comes from the line of `Robyn Karnauskas, Analyst, Truist Securities with Truist Securities.
Q - `Robyn Karnauskas, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Hey guys, thanks for taking my question. So, just first unpack COVID contracts. You'd mentioned
that there is a bucket of contracts where you're further away from signing. Can you just give a bit
more color on what the rate limiting steps are for signing in those countries or signing those
contracts? Are they in areas where there is less infection, for example?
And then second on the booster, just a follow-up question. It seems like there's a lot of debate
about how long the immunity lasts with the boosters. And so, how far away do you think we are
scientifically from a longer-acting -- longer-lasting mRNA booster? Thanks.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Fantastic questions. Angela, what about the contracts?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President `
So they're not infection related. It literally is just time. We have many countries to get to and each
one of them have their own internal process to that need to go through, so there really is nothing
here other than just getting through it and time.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Angela. On the booster, let me make also some final comments, before we are out of
time and also try to answer that one. Clearly COVID, it is a main uncertainty for the world and for,
let's say, companies that they are trying to make a difference with COVID and -- but I think we
don't know the future, but there are some scenarios there are the most likely. I believe that the
most likely scenario that you should be seeing right now, it is that the virus will be around and the
virus will mutate and we know the characteristic of this virus. It is in addition to the mutation, if
doesn't produce long-lasting immune protection, not only through vaccinations, but also through
natural infection before, but they are getting sick, they will get sicker. They can get again sick with
different or with the same variant, we know after some time.
The second thing that we know it is that the social distancing measures that were the main way to
control the disease spreads in the first two years of the pandemic with ease. It is happeningbecause now health authorities, they do have a treatment in their hand, which they can count, so
they can release, let's say, the measures they are not as sceptical as before to see overwhelming
of hospitals, but also it is happening because the societies (inaudible). So, there is a tremendous
pressure across the world to get our lives back.
As a result of these things, it's very clear that we would have waves that we will be more and
more going to be affecting people and for what we need to have constant vaccinations,
compliance with the vaccinations and the effective treatment. Right now people, it's clear that
they are skeptical in vaccines that is not clear, if that would be needed to take another one and
then another one. (inaudible) from the repeated booster. So, it is extremely important to come
through vaccine, but it could be a yearly vaccine and to that is not technically ease. Let's see if
(inaudible), but we are having very good scientifically on that.
So, we are working on that. So, when it comes to vaccines, I think this is what needs to be the
next steps to be able to stay ahead of the virus, which we are in terms of the new variants, but
also trying to go to the next generation that would be a yearly vaccine and of course when it
comes to treatments, we need to make sure that we go with our manufacturing and the
availability (inaudible) the need, unfortunately I think will increase as we are moving for less social
distancing measures and if I saw reality. So, that's how I will just want to answer the booster
question in terms of a long-acting booster and I want also to thank you everyone for today's call.
We are seeing very strong signs of increasing demands for Paxlovid, as it remains one of the best
tools we have. I'm proud we've been able to recruit some of the best and brightest external
minds and to add to our talented roster of people. I'm proud that we have been named the most
patient-centric company based on feedback for more than 2,000 patient organizations and
associations. It's a testament of the important and innovative work our colleagues do every day in
pursuit of our purpose and I want to close once more by thanking Frank about his tremendous
contributions and his friendship to not only me, but many of our of executives at Pfizer and wish
him well in his after-Pfizer life, although as he said you remains a major shareholder. So, he will be
attending all everything that's happening here with a lot of attention. Thank you very much
everyone.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.