Q2 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Tesla's Second Quarter 2023 Q&A Webcast. My
name is `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations, VP of Investor Relations, and I'm joined today by `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer, Zachary
Kirkhorn, and a number of other executives. Our Q2 results were announced at about 3 PM
Central Time in the update deck we published at the same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow-up. Please use the raise hand button to join the question queue.
But before we jump into the Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Martin. So just a Q2 recap. In Q2, we achieved record vehicle production and deliveries
and record revenue of about $25 billion in a single quarter. And Model Y became the best-selling
vehicle of any kind globally in Q1, surpassing the likes of Corolla and (inaudible). So it was the
number one vehicle of anytime, including vehicles that are sold at a far lower price. This is, I think,
an incredible achievement by the Tesla team and just a huge thank you to our customers for their
support. So this came in spite of high interest rates and a lot of macro uncertainty and unless we
managed to achieve operating margin of about 10%.
We continue to target 1.8 million vehicle deliveries this year, although we expect that Q3
production will be a little bit down, because we've got summer shutdowns to -- for a lot of factory
upgrades. So just probably a slight decrease in production in Q3 for sort of global factory
upgrades. In the long-term, autonomy we think is going to just drive volume through the ceiling
next level. And our future robotaxi products -- the dedicated robotaxi products, we think have aquasi-infinite demand. So, the way we're going to manufacture the robotaxi is also itself a
revolutionary. So it's a revolutionary sign made in a revolutionary way. It will be by far the highest
units per hour of any vehicle production ever. So we're very excited about that.
With respect to Autopilot and Dojo, in order to build autonomy, we also need to train our neural
net with data from millions of vehicles with a more -- I mean, this is an improvement over and
over again. The more training data you have, the better the results. And I mean there were times
where we see basically in a neural net, basically it is sort of at a million training examples, it barely
works at 2 million, it's slightly works at 3 million. It's like, wow, okay, we're seeing something, then
you get like 10 million training examples, it's like -- it becomes incredible. So, there's just no
substitute for a massive amount of data. And obviously, Tesla has more vehicles on the road that
are collecting this data than all other companies combined by, I think, maybe even at an order of
magnitude. So, I think we might have 90% of all, a very big number.
So, the success in AI endeavors is a function of talent, sort of unique data and computer
resources. And we have outstanding capabilities in all three arenas. And I really just don't know
how anyone could do what we're doing, even if they had our software and had our computer if
they did not have the training data.
So speaking of which our Dojo training computer is designed to significantly reduce the cost of
neural net training. It is designed to -- it's not optimized for the kind of training that we need,
which is a video training. So, we just see that the need for neural net training, again talking in
quasi kind of things is just enormous. So, I think we expect to use both NVIDIA and Dojo to be
clear. But there is -- we just see a demand for really vast training resources.
And we think we may reach in-house neural net training capability of 100 extra blocks[ph] by the
end of next year. So, today, over 300 million miles have been driven using FSD beta. That 300
million mile number is going to seem small very quickly. It will soon be billions of miles, and tens of
billions of miles. And that FSD will go from being as good as the human to then being vastly
better than the human. We see a clear path to full self-driving being 10 times safer than the
average human driver.
So -- and between Autopilot, Dojo computer, our inference hardware in the car, which we call
Hardware 3, 4, but it's really dedicated -- it's a high-efficiency inference computer that's in the car
and our Optimus robot. Tesla is clearly at the cutting-edge of AI (inaudible).
We continue to build our lease candidates to the Cybertruck on our pilot production line in Austin.
I'm actually here in Austin at the Gigafactory. This is the first truck that we're aware of that will
have four-door, was over six-foot bed and fit into a 20-foot garage. So it's a sort of biggest on
the outside, but it's even bigger on the inside. So it's a -- I think that's a -- one of the elements of
good design is it should feel big on the inside than it looks on the outside. And this is no small car,
but we really cared about the exterior dimensions of the Cybertruck down to the last millimeter.
So just before you trying to get right in middle of the goldilocks zone, not too big, not too small
and then really maximize the utility of the volume. And we can't wait to start delivering it later this
year.
Some other highlights. Our global Supercharging network now stands at over 50,000 -- roughly
50,000 connectors and over 5,000 locations. As I think a lot of people are aware, the Tesla
charging standard which we made open source is now called the North American charging
standard. We're deeply honored that Ford, GM, Mercedes and many other OEMs have signed up
to use our connector and gain access to our charging network. We strongly believe in helpingother car companies to accelerate the EV revolution and just trying to do the right thing in
general. So, that's (inaudible) there.
Then, if I may I think I want to emphasize like very strongly, this is a very important point is that
Tesla, just as with the North American charging standard, although we're not licensing, like we're
not licensing, we're just making it available, but we are very open to licensing our Full Self-Driving
software and hardware to other car companies. And we are already in discussions with -- early
discussions with a major OEM about using Tesla FSD. So, we're not trying to keep this to
ourselves, we're more than happy to license it to others. And lastly, our new lithium refinery and
cathode facility are progressing well.
In conclusion, we continue to focus on making as many cars as we can, while maintaining healthy
financials. Our artificial intelligence development is, obviously, entering a new era. And we're
incredibly excited about what's to come. Our other businesses such as Megapack, Supercharging
service and whatnot all started to become a meaningful contributor to overall profitability this
quarter. And then lastly, I'd just like to profusely thank all of our employees who are making it a lot
of extra effort during uncertain times. Thank you very much for your hard work and the impact
you're making.
`Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Elon. And I think Zach has some opening remarks as well.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Martin. As Elon mentioned, Q2 was another record quarter of production and
deliveries, as well as records and profit for energy and services and other businesses.
Congratulations again to the Tesla team on the continued progress. As we navigate through a
period of economic uncertainty, rising interest rates, volatility in consumer confidence and
regulatory change, I want to comment on our financial approach.
First, the single most important priority is to ensure we are continuing to invest heavily in the core
technologies that will drive the long-term value of the business. This include increasing spending
on AI-related technologies such as Full Self-Driving, Optimus ad Dojo, as well as new products
such as Cybertruck, our next-generation platform in the Semi as evidenced by the continued
growth in our R&D spend. This also includes continuing our investments in capacity expansion, not
only in our vehicle factories, but also our Supercharging network, service, internal applications and
battery processes as we continue with meaningful capital expenditures to lay this foundation for
the future.
Second, we continue to work towards our goals of maximizing volumes on both our vehicle and
energy business. But most importantly, doing so in a way that generates the capital to continue
our pace of R&D and capital investments. This requires a strong focus on per unit cost reductions
in each of our key businesses, as well as working capital improvements on raw materials, work-in-
process inventory and customer AR, all of which progressed appropriately in Q2.
If we look specifically at our automotive business, our gross margin showed a modest reduction
and remained healthy, despite action taken to further improve vehicle affordability early in the
quarter. We recognize -- we realized per unit cost improvements in nearly every category,
including material cost and commodities, manufacturing costs and logistics. We're also continuing
to rapidly increase the build rate in our Austin and Berlin factories. For our energy business, we
improved margins and gross profit, driven by cost reductions and deal economics, particularly
with Megapack.As a reminder, storage volumes are typically volatile sequentially based on the types of projects
and with specific revenue recognition milestones. As we look forward to the rest of the year, I
want to reiterate Elon's comments on Q3 volumes, driven by planned downtimes for factory
upgrades. These upgrades will also carry some amount of factory idle cost, however, we are
working to minimize as much as possible. It's also important to keep in mind the uncertainty in the
macro-environment, which can impact our execution positively or negatively in the near-term.
Regardless, we continue to remain dynamic with a focus on fundamental efficiency and the long-
term outlook. Congratulations again to everybody on a great quarter.
Questions And Answers
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Zach. And let's go to investor questions. The first question on licensing
FSD, we've already answered. So let's go to the second one. The second question is, what is the
status of 4680 cells? How far are you from the specs you laid out on Battery Day? When do you
expect to achieve what you laid out on the Battery Day?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, first I'll just start with a little bit of a production update. So in Texas, 4680 cell production
increased 80% Q2 over Q1, and the team surpassed 10 million production cells produced here in
Texas. So congrats to the team for that. They're focused on yield, reduced our scrap bill by 40%
quarter-over-quarter. And that resulted in a 25% reduction in cell COGS. Here in Texas, we're
preparing to launch our Cybertruck cell, which is 10% higher energy density than current
production. That was accomplished through process and mechanical design optimization. As we
scale cyber cell production through the end of the year and early next, we should be in a
comfortable place on cost per cell.
Against our battery energy density targets, the cyber cell is at our expectations on a like-for-like
electrochemistry basis. We're yet to integrate silicon or in-house cathode production both
reviewed on Battery Day, which do bring significant further energy density and cost
improvements, but that is a topic for another day.
Lastly, it is important to remember that most of what we focused on the Battery Day was the
Tesla-engineered 4680 production system and the improvements we strove to achieve on
equipment, factory density, capital cost and utility cost reduction, all of which we are realizing in
our Texas scale-up today.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question is, can you talk more to the upcoming Tesla Energy
products and how you're thinking has evolved on the revenue model? Given Tesla's AI
capabilities, how do you see the long-term mix between hardware margin and recurring software
margin from auto bidder as this segment accelerates?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
We can't comment on future product roadmap. But I can provide a quick Energy Q2 update.
Megapack continues to show strong demand globally with Lathrop ramping successfully to meet
our contracted projects in 2023 as stated last quarter Megapack margins are in a reasonable
place in-line with our vehicle target margins. The second final assembly line at Lathrop is
progressing on schedule. Eventually doubling Lathrop capacity ahead of our full factory ramp in2024. We have several exciting large projects in construction or nearing completion, putting the
KES project in Hawaii, the Riverina project in Australia, several projects in California and one here
Gigafactory Texas that I'll tour today actually.
We want to thank our customers, utilities and grid operators for trusting us with these projects.
On the automotive question we continue to grow automotive contracts in wholesale markets like
Australia, Texas, UK in California with over 6 gigawatt-hours under Tesla's dispatch next year and
the UK, our projects performed best-in the industry. In Q2, auto better does have software
margins and is an enabler for hardware sales, but it's a relatively small contributor to revenues,
given how much deployment growth on the Megapack our side is occurring. It's important to
remember that these large capital projects have lifetimes 20 years of recurring revenues on an
annualized basis relative to upfront CapEx are small.
On the residential side, we have some fun things happening. We recently surpassed 0.5 million
Powerwall installed. Just this week, we are launching charge on solar, which allows Tesla Powerwall
and vehicle customers to charge their vehicles using excess solar and drive only on the Sunshine,
it's their roof. Yesterday, we began paying customers in Texas for participating in our virtual
power plant to provide credit support to ERCOT. We expect these credits to lower our medium
customers annual by a third and to increase these credits over-time as ERCOT expanded market
access and today, we are expanding Tesla electric enrollment to new model three owners in
Texas, followed by all Texas vehicle customers over the rest of the quarter.
Unfortunately and somewhat similar to Tesla Insurance bringing Tesla, electric and DPP
capabilities to our customers requires working through a fracture and regulatory environment on
a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. In the long-run, the value of residential energy software and
hardware will be driven by the level of market access that utilities market operators and
regulators permit. Powerwall eligible to provide the full stack of energy services like peaker[ph]
capacity and system offerings such as in Australia, we can more than double the value of
ownership relative to a typical system today.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question is, could you quantify the benefits to COGS per unit
from the IRA battery manufacturing incentives and secondly battery raw-material declines year-
to-date.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
I can take that on the first part of the question for IRA manufacturing incentives we've provided
previous guidance that we expect these to being for the course of this year in the range of $150
million to $250 million per quarter. We are staying within that boundary as we guided previously,
that was the case in Q2 as well. I will note and I think we've mentioned this before that this
includes the 50-50 sharing of credits for qualified cells from our long-term battery partner
Panasonic.
On the commodity side, we are continuing to see improvements there as we've discussed
previously. Lithium is the most notable improvement so-far I think I've commented on this on the
last call because typically we see this coming about a quarter before it actually is realized in our
financials. And also, just as a reminder, we're not fully exposed to the price of lithium, our supply-
chain team has done a terrific job in partnership with a bunch of other companies to put in-place.
Some long-term agreements here, but we do have some exposure that moves up-and-down.
That resulted in a 25% reduction in COGS. Here in Texas, we're preparing to launch ouraccomplished through process and mechanical design optimization as we scale cyber cell
production through the end of the year and early next, we should be in a comfortable place on
cost per cell. Against our battery energy density targets the cyber sellers are our expectations on
a like-for-like (inaudible) basis we're yet to integrate silicon or in-house cathode production both
reviewed on Battery Day which do bring significant further energy density and cost improvements
but that as a topic for another day.
Lastly, it is important to remember that most of what we focused on Battery Day was the Tesla
engineered 4680 production system and the improvements we strove to achieve on equipment
factory density capital cost and utility cost-reduction, all of which we are realizing in our Texas
scale-up today.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question is, can you talk more to the upcoming Tesla Energy
products and how you're thinking has evolved on the revenue model given Tesla's AI capabilities.
How do you see the long-term mix between hardware margin and recurring software margins
from auto bidder as this segment accelerates.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
We can't comment on future product roadmap, but I can provide a quick energy Q2 update.
Megapack continues to show strong demand globally with Lathrop ramping successfully to meet
our contracted projects in 2023. As stated last quarter, Megapack margins are in a reasonable
place in line with our vehicle target margins. The second final assembly line at Lathrop is
progressing on schedule, eventually doubling Lathrop capacity ahead of our full factory ramp in
2024. We have several exciting large projects in construction or nearing completion, including the
KES project in Hawaii, the River Green project in Australia, several projects in California and one
here at Gigafactory Texas today actually. We want to thank our customers, utilities and grid
operators for trusting us with these projects.
On the auto bidder question, we continue to grow auto bidder contracts in wholesale markets
like Australia, Texas, UK and California with over 6 gigawatt hours under Tesla's dispatch next
year. In the UK, our projects performed best in the industry in Q2. Auto bidder does have
software margins, and is an enabler for hardware sales, but it's a relatively small contributor to
revenues, given how much deployment growth on the Megapack hardware side is occurring. It's
important to remember that these large capital projects have lifetimes 20 years of recurring
revenues on an annualized basis relative to upfront CapEx are small.
On the residential side, we have some fun things happening. We recently surpassed 0.5 million
Powerwalls installed. Just this week, we are launching charge on solar, which allows Tesla
Powerwall and vehicle customers to charge their vehicles using excess solar and drive only on the
sunshine that hits the roof. Yesterday, we began paying customers in Texas for participating in our
virtual power plant to provide grid support to ERCOT. We expect these credits to lower our
median customers' annual bill by a third and to increase these credits over time as ERCOT
expands market access. And today, we are expanding Tesla electric enrollment to new Model 3
owners in Texas, followed by all Texas vehicle customers over the rest of the quarter.
Unfortunately and somewhat similar to Tesla Insurance, bringing Tesla electric and VPP
capabilities to our customers requires working through a fracture and regulatory environment on
a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. In the long run, the value of residential energy, software and
hardware will be driven by the level of market access that utilities, market operators andpeaker capacity and system buffering such as in Australia, we can more than double the value of
ownership relative to typical system today.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question is, could you quantify the benefits to COGS per unit
from the IRA battery manufacturing incentives and secondly, battery raw material declines year-
to-date?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
I can take that. On the first part of the question for IRA manufacturing incentives, we've provided
previous guidance that we expect these to be for the course of this year in the range of $150
million to $250 million per quarter. We are staying within that boundary as we guided previously,
so that was the case in Q2 as well. I will note and I think we've mentioned this before that this
includes the 50-50 sharing of credits for qualified cells from our long-term battery partner,
Panasonic.
On the commodity side, we are continuing to see improvements there as we've discussed
previously. Lithium is the most notable improvement so far. I think I've commented on this on the
last call because typically, we see this coming about a quarter before it actually is realized in our
financials. And also, just as a reminder, we're not fully exposed to the price of lithium. Our supply
chain team has done a terrific job in partnership with another bunch of other companies to put in
place some long-term agreements here, but we do have some exposure that moves up and
down.
We're also seeing benefits in aluminum and steel, which I think is great. Not as large as the lithium
impacts, but they contribute nonetheless. So if we add up the total impact of this in Q2 relative to
prior quarter, it's about the same size and magnitude as the IRA benefits that we also received.
Just to put this in context, as you look at COGS per unit sequentially from Q1 to Q2, there's two
things to keep in mind there. The first is that our SX[ph] mix for deliveries increased quite a bit
from Q1 to Q2. So as you think about fundamental cost reductions, it's important to adjust for
that.
And then secondly, as we continue to work on reducing our Austin and Berlin cars, which we did
quite a bit of that from Q1 to Q2, these factories are still slightly above Model Y production costs
elsewhere. And in the quarter, our mix of Austin and Berlin related builds increased. And so, that's
something to consider as you model out the impact on -- from Q1 to Q2 in terms of COGS per
unit.
I do want to ask Karn, if there's anything else on the commodity side or just more generally you
want to adhere.
A - `Karn Budhiraj, Vice President of Supply Chain
Yeah. As you mentioned, Zach, we've naturally been a little bit hedged from losing position
because the long-term contracts we have in place, but we have seen reduction in pricing across
the board for all commodities that specifically go into batteries such as nickel, cobalt and
graphite. And the reductions in pricing translate into thousands of dollars when you look at it from
a per vehicle impact. We're taking advantage to extend some of those fixed price contract
through the end of the decade. So it's a playbook that will continue to kind of go back to as we
look to the future.A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question on FSD. Have you considered allowing FSD transfer ability as a lever
to allow existing customers to upgrade to a new Tesla instead of being locked into an existing car
due to the price of FSD?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, this is the question we get asked a lot. So we're excited to announce that for Q3, we will
be allowing transfer of FSD. This is a one-time MSD. So this we take advantage of it in Q3, but --
or at least place the order in Q3 within reasonable delivery time frames. So, yeah, I hope this
makes people happy. If we don't get there, this is a one-time thing.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. The next question, when will we give more information about the Cybertruck orders,
estimated delivery schedules, pricing and specifications?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
The demand is so far (inaudible). So that's really not an issue. I do want to emphasize that the
Cybertruck has a lot of new technology in it like a lot. It doesn't look like any other vehicle
because it is not like any other vehicle. So -- and the production ramp will move as fast as the
slowest and least like the elements of the entire supply chain and internal production. So I
wouldn't expect it -- I hope it's smooth. We're certainly better production ramps. We've got a lot
of experience with production ramps, but first order approximation is like 10,000 unique parts
and processes in a year in the Cybertruck. And if anyone -- it will go as fast as the least lucky, least
well-executed element of the 10,000. So, always very difficult to predict the ramp initially, but I
think we're making them in high volume next year and we will be delivering the car this year.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question is critics of Giga casting contended that process makes vehicles
harder and more costly to repair, essentially pushing costs on to the customer. Can you share
some details about the initial repair experience with Giga cast vehicles?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
That must be why everyone's copying us.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President of Vehicle Engineering `
Thanks, Elon. This is Lars. That's like simply not true. There's a misconception that traditional
bodies are easy to repair, but they are made of multiple materials and multiple joining methods.
Spot welds and rivets have to be drilled out. Panels and structural adhesives have to be chiseled
down, dried adhesive has to be removed, stain things, cut, blah, blah, blah.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
It's a crazy patchwork quilt.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. And so, putting that back together means time and money using an example of replacing a
real cash rail in Model Y. It's a do that versus like what we replaced it with some Model 3, it's 10
times cheaper and three times faster to do it with the cash rail.
My design team works with our collision repair team since we're closed-loop on this with
insurance and redesign specific parts that are making it easier and faster to repair. And we have
an incentive to do that because we have our own insurance and our own body shops. We expect
that we'll continue to do this, and collision repair will continue to become cheaper and faster over
time. And we already made this available to all body shops through our Tesla-approved body
shop training.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Closing loop on collision repair and factoring that into design is a big deal.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President of Vehicle Engineering `
It's crucial. I don't think anyone else can do it with that ecosystem that we have, so...
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And we are actually able to change the details of the casting with inserts and we actually do
that all the time, so -- because the answer is actually wear out and need to be replaced anyway.
So we can actually make design changes to be inserts and tweak the castings. But the cancel --
the cast rear body or front body is lighter, cheaper, better noise vibration, harshness, much easier
to manufacture. And it's better in every way. And that's why so many other car companies are
copying us.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Probably.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, they certainly put out lot of press releases about it. I think it's basically going to be how all
cars are made in the future.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Next question, how many Optimus bots have been made and when will they be able
to start performing useful tasks?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
10 million. Yes, I think we're around five or six bots. There is -- we were 10, I guess, which was our
-- how many are working and what phase, but, it's sort of -- yeah, there is more every month.
There's a lot of interesting things about the Optimus bot. We found that there are actually no
suppliers that can produce the actuators. There are no off-the-shelf actuators that work well for
human robot at any price.
A - `Andrew Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain and Energy Engineering `
Certainly not compelling unit.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Yes, there's not human robot that can do some things that human can to do. So, we've actually
had to design our own actuators that integrate the motor, the power electronics, the controller,
the sensors and really every one of them is custom designed. So, and then of course, we'll be
using the same inference hardware as the car.
So -- but we are in designing these actuators are designing them for volume productions. So
they're not just lighter, tighter and more capable any other actuators that exist in the world, but
it's also actually manufacturable. So we should be able to make them in volume. The first
Optimus that is -- that we'll have all of the Tesla-designed actuators, so production candidate
actuators. It integrated and walking should be around November-ish. So -- and then, we will start
ramping up after that.
In terms of when we'll be able to see some useful things, we will first be trying to in our own
factories, and is proving out as utility buy. I think we'll be able to have do something useful in our
factories sometime next year. I would be -- yeah, I'm pretty confident of that. So, yeah, very well.
I should say, another core thing about Optimus is that just in the US alone, there are 2 million
amputees. And I was just talking to the Neuralink team and by combining Neuralink implant and a
robotic arm or leg for someone that has had their arms or legs or all arms and legs amputated.
We believe we can give basically a sidewalk[ph] body that is incredibly capable. $6 million man in
real life. But it won't cost $6 million, $60,000 man. Seems that was impressive, but it will actually -
- so that actually could be really -- I think would be incredible to potentially help millions of people
around the world and give them a robot arm or like that is as good, maybe long-term better than
a biological one.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question is how has the order intake trended relatively to production levels
during Q2? And how has that trended in the quarter-to-date period? Conceptually, how does
Tesla beside? When do you see the appropriate reduced prices or add other sales incentives to
increase demand?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I guess, demand has roughly tracked production. So -- which is what we aim for. Something
that we have that really I think no other car maker has is that we have real-time demand and real-
time production like so -- seven days a week. I got an email -- auto generated email, chose
output from all factories and orders globally. So it's like a real-time finger on the pulse of Earth
basically. And we're just course according to what the mood of the public is. Buying a new car is a
big decision for the vast majority of people. So, anytime there is economic uncertainty, people
generally pause on new car buying at least to see what happens.
And then obviously, another challenge is the interest rate environment. As interest rates rise, the
affordability of anything bought with that decreases, so effectively increasing the price of the car.
So when interest rates rise dramatically, we actually have to reduce the price of the car, because
the interest payments increase the price of the car. So -- and this is at least up until recently, it
was just I believe the sharpest interest rate rise in history. So we have to do something about
that.
And so, (inaudible) a crystal ball for the global economy. I really appreciate it, if I could borrow that
crystal ball. Yeah, exactly, (inaudible). It should be not on Twitter. So, I mean, one day, it seems like
the world economy is falling apart. And the next day, everything's fine. I don't know what the hell
is going on. It would be totally fine. I wish I did.So I mean, that's why I say like I always on twitter, I posted like just really advising because I care a
lot about the sort of the small shareholders, especially ones that have stuck with us through thick
and thin. I love you guys. And so, we can't control these macro shocks or the thematic depressive
nature of the stock market. So that's why I recommend against margin loans in times that are
turbulent. If times are not that turbulent, actually margin loan can be a smart move within reason.
But we're in I would call it turbulent times. Like I have very high confidence in the long-term value
of Tesla. Like I see it really see a path to a 10x -- call it a 5x increase in the value of the Company,
maybe a 10x.
And where things go along the way, the trials and tribulations and the mood of the markets, no
one can't predict. And so, the old adage of buy and hold is right. For an investment advice, I see
like identify a company whose products you love. See if they -- does it seem like they will continue
to make good products or great products. Buy that stock and hold it That's it. You all win. The
reason companies exist is to make goods and services ideally great goods and services. They
don't exist for any other reason, they shouldn't. So that's why you should buy the stock of the
company that makes -- has a great future pipeline. It's common sense actually.
And then, generally if you see -- if you -- provided you're confident about what that company's
products or services are, when the market panics buy and when the market is over the
exuberant, you can sell. I'm not recommending yourself (inaudible), but yeah, buy low, sell high.
Warren Buffett actually I think has a saying I'm paraphrasing him, but publicly-traded company is
like imagine you're living in your house and some crazy manic depressive guy comes and stands
at the outside your house and yells property prices at you. And it's a different price every day.
The house is still the same house. So, this is the stock market. Credit that to Warren Buffett.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question. With the emphasis of price cuts to drive volume growth
heading into automotive gross margin, can investors expect to see automotive gross margin
stabilize or even rise due to efficiencies, outpacing the cuts? And if, so when?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Where is that crystal ball, again? If I may, it's like look the short-term variances in gross margin and
profitability really are minor relative to the long-term picture. Autonomy will make all of these
numbers look silly. I'd recommend looking at ARK invest, I think their analysis is very good. The
best -- and generally for Intuit or like if the finance, smart finance people on Twitter, follow their
accounts, they're great. So that's in my opinion where you will get the best, the best info. So I
strongly believe Tesla is a big long-term investment. And that's where when things go up and
down, in fact the market panics by, if the market is a little too exuberant time, sell at the time, but
just generally, I feel comfortable we will deliver long-term, but can't control short-term, so -- and
it's autonomy is really where it's happening. I mean, Zach why don't you?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
I fully agree with you. I think the only thing in the short-term that matters is what I said in my
opening remarks, which is regenerating enough money to continue to invest. And the portfolio of
products and technologies that the technical teams are investing in right now, this is intense. It's
intense in terms of investment. It's intense in terms of potential
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Frankly, I think it's ridiculous that we have positive free cash flow in a capital-intensive business,
while investing massive amounts of money in new technology. That is super hard.
A - `Andrew Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain and Energy Engineering `
And vertical integration. It's not even just like new products, but also...
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. We actually make our ship. We don't -- to others, but...
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
And so, at least from my perspective, what matters is continuing to generate the cash to invest.
That means continuing to be hyper-focused on near-term cost reduction because everything we
do and near-term cost reduction provides capital to reinvest. Hyper-focused on working capital
management, which we've made quite a bit of progress there on the raw materials and led side
of that. We've been very focused on accounts receivables as well to ensure that we can continue
to invest -- reinvest the cash. This is what we're focused on.
And so there's set of things that we control. We have a pipeline of cost reductions. We are
getting tailwinds in the commodity space right now as Karn mentioned, that's helpful. Variability
around average selling prices goes back to Elon's point, we don't control interest rates, we don't
control macro consumer sentiment, but we have an obligation to be responsive to that to ensure
that we're matching supply and demand and keeping things balanced. And so, this is how we're
managing the next handful of quarters. As soon as these quarters will be behind us, they won't
be part of present value of future cash flows of the business. And so, we want to make sure we
keep that view and make sure that the long-term business is exactly the way that we want it to
be.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you very much. And now let's go to analyst questions. The first question comes
from `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Dan, feel free to unmute yourself.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Good evening. Thank you. Wanted to start first with a question about your efforts in AI and
Dojo. It's pretty clear it sounds like you're accelerating your focus. Can you maybe provide us with
a sense of what the processes of refining a product? Is it more machines? And maybe you could
give us a sense of when the payout starts to -- when you start to see the payout and what the
resource outlay is? What should we expect on the OpEx front, as a result of this?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, are you saying how much we can spend on Dojo or...
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain and Energy Engineering `
R&D of Dojo.Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Yes.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we're not going to be open loop on our Dojo expenditures, so -- but I mean, I think we will
be spending probably worth of $1 billion over the next year on (inaudible) next year. it's well over
$1 billion in Dojo. And yeah, so maybe we've got a truly staggering amount of video data to do
training on. And this is another thing I like. In order to copy us, you also need to spend billions of
dollars in -- on training compute. I mean, it's like -- and it's also hard too. You need the data and
you need the trend computers like things like all things needed to actually achieve this at-scale to
generalized solution for autonomy. This is one of the highest bonds ever.
You see a lot of AI companies doing LLMs and whatnot. And I'd say if there are so great, why
can't they make a software driving car because it's harder. That's why. So, I do think that -- I think
there's some great AI companies out there, but just fundamentally, the staggering amount of
data we've got to process -- we've got to process somehow and custom silicon is the best way
to do that. So that's what Dojo is designed to do is optimize for video training. It's not optimized
for all of them. So it's optimized for video training. With video training, you have a much higher
ratio of compute to memory bandwidth. So, whereas LLMs tend to be memory bandwidth
choked.
So that's it. I mean -- but like I said, we're also -- we have some -- we're using a lot of NVIDIA
hardware and we'll continue to -- we'll actually take NVIDIA hardware as fast as NVIDIA will deliver
it to us tremendous respect for Jensen and NVIDIA. They've done an incredible job. And frankly, I
don't have -- if they could deliver us enough, GPUs -- we might not need Dojo, but they can't. So,
they've got so many customers. They've have been kind of up to nonetheless, prioritizing our
GPU orders. But the sheer magnitude of video training -- because like I said, we're not trying to
just get as good as when we want to get to 10 times better than human, maybe a 100 times than
human.
Right now, I believe there is something on the order of 1 million automotive tests per year. And
then if you say permanent serious injuries, I think it's probably closer to 10 million per year. And,
yes, so it matters if you're twice as good as human 10 times, like 10 times better than human
would still mean 100,000 deaths and 1 million severe permanent injuries. So it's like okay, we
would probably be 100 times better. So there's really -- it's a march of lines and we want to
achieve. That's perfect to safety as possible. And that's truly mind-boggling amounts of video
and computer needed for that. So -- and then, I just do think there's other applications for Dojo,
but we just desperately needed for the video training.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Just to add to what Elon mentioned, the numbers that he mentioned are between R&D spend
and capital spend and this is moving quickly. And so, we provide a three-year outlook on our
capital expense. We are considering these expenses in that outlook. And as that moves up and
down, we'll continue to update our guidance in the queue.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I want to say the fundamental rate limiter on the progress of full self-driving is training.
That's -- if we had more training compute, we will get it done faster. So, that's it.A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
And it's just difficult to predict how quickly we can execute on them.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Great, thank you. Just as a follow-up. I recognize there's incredible macro uncertainty right now,
but you're sticking with your near-term, your volume target 50% CAGR. As we just think about
sort of in the year ahead Cybertruck is going to be some contribution, there's going to be some
help from further EV penetration growth. But to what extent, are you willing to sacrifice on pricing
to keep that 50% volume CAGR intact? Or are you thinking differently about margins versus your
prior commentary of willing to sacrifice on margins to get more share?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
It sounds like we're getting more share. It's just that you can think of every car that we sell or
produce that has full autonomy capability as actually something that in the future may be worth as
much as five times what it is today. Because average (inaudible) vehicle is doing like maybe 10
hours of driving a week. If this is 1.5 hours a day on average, that's 10 hours a week-ish. If you've
got on autonomous, if the vehicle is able to operate autonomously and use either dedicated
autonomous or partially autonomous like Airbnb, like maybe sometimes you allow your car to be
used by others, sometimes you want to use it exclusively just like Airbnb with a room in your
house. The value is just tremendous. So I think it's sort of, it would be -- I think it makes -- it does
make sense to sacrifice margins in favor of making more vehicles because we think in the -- not
just in the future, they will have a dramatic valuation increase. I think the Tesla fleet value increase
at the point in which we can upload full self-driving and is approved by regulators will be the
single biggest step change in asset value maybe in history.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next analyst. The question comes from `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from
Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you very much. Two questions from me as well. First, following up on the autonomy. So
before you start launching these dedicated robotaxi vehicles on existing vehicles, you're
improving FSD incrementally. What is your latest targeted timing to essentially release a non-beta
version or an eyes-off version that would trigger much higher take rates? And will Tesla benefit
from lowering the price of FSD?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, obviously, as people have sort of made fun of me and perhaps quite fairly have made fun of
me, my predictions about achieving full self-driving have been optimistic in the past. The reason
I've been optimistic is what -- it tends to look like is the -- we'll make rapid progress with a new
version of FSD, but then, it will curve over logarithmically. So first, logarithmic curve looks like just
sort of fairly straight upward line, diagonally up. And so, if you extrapolate that, then you have a
great thing. But then because it's actually logarithmic, it curves over, and then there have been a
series of stacked logarithmic curves.
Now I'm the boy who cried FSD, but I think we'll be better than human by the end of this year.
That's not to say we're approved by regulators. And I'm saying that would be in the U.S. becausewe've got to focus on one market first. But I think we'll be better than human by the end of this
year. I've been wrong in the past, I may be wrong this time. And the price of FSD -- so the way I
think is the price of FSD is actually very low is not high. When you go back to what I say here, the
value of the car increased dramatically if it is actually autonomous. $15,000 is actually a low price,
not a high price. And we will offer -- and we have -- I think we do sort of offer FSD as a sort of
monthly subscription, although most people don't know that. So I'd recommend like maybe trying
it out as a monthly subscription, so you don't have to go with the $13,000[ph] thing. But I think
yeah, obviously, if the car is worth several times its original price, $15,000 is actually a low price
for FSD.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the next question comes from `William Stein, Analyst, Truist from Truist. William, go ahead and
unmute.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. I'd like to ask about, to stick on this AI topic,
we've read with great interest the developments in Dojo today and you spoken about FSD. But
you've also, Elon, you've started this X.AI company and for investors that think that there might
be quite a bit of value in the AI features and products of Tesla. It might be concerning to see you
pursuing another endeavor where AI is the focus. So can you talk about how X.AI might overlap,
might perhaps compete with Tesla or in other ways, perhaps it enhances the value of what Tesla
does? Thanks very much.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think it will actually enhance the value of Tesla. There were just some of the world's best AI
engineers and scientists that we're willing to join a startup. But they are not willing to join a large
sort of relatively established company like Tesla, so is like that's actually how it got started. I was
interviewing a few people and they're like now we want to start-up was like. And that's what -- I
can convince them strain Tesla. So it's like, okay, well better to startup that (inaudible) has been
done then they go work somewhere else.
That's kind of the genesis of xAI. And xAI is focused on sort of AGI. Yeah, so it's, I'd like say, I think
there will be some value that xAI brings to Tesla, also some of the best for the very best people
in the world, they really just want to work on interesting problem. So if you take say, a material
science group, really what convinced try equivalent to leave Apple, where it's very happy and well
compensated and both at -- book look. We think it's the best material science group in the world
well, was that he got to work both Tesla and SpaceX, he wasn't willing to leave Apple if it was
Tesla, but he is willing to do if it is Tesla and SpaceX. So sometimes you get the best talent in the
world. That's kind of the thing you need to do, and that actually has been very beneficial to Tesla.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist `
If I can squeeze one more mundane question in. I wonder if you think you can hit the 1.8 million
unit number with current pricing, or do you anticipate needing to continue to lower prices
because it seems like the trends have stabilized in the last maybe more than half? Should we
expect to sort of continued decreases, or more stabilization for the rest of the year?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Sure. We have sort of -- we started the referral program, which I think will be quite effective. As
Zach was saying earlier, we don't control the macroeconomic conditions. So if interest rates
continue to rise, that reduces the affordability of cars. And for a lot of people, they're really
(inaudible) really breaking even every month. In fact, if you look at the rise in credit card debt,
they are in fact not breaking even every month. Credit card debt is looking scary. So we just don't
control the market conditions. If market condition is stable, I think prices will be stable. If they're
not stable, then we would have lower prices, yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer from Oppenheimer.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Thanks so much, guys. As you're building out Dojo and implementing what truly is going to be
highly complex set of software, if you speak to the maturity of the operating system and how
much outsourced software you're expecting to use in that system?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
This is a custom software stack. So -- but it is designed such that you can run at a high level,
PyTorch and Jax. So -- but then, we have to customize it to actually run on a custom silicon. So the
software stack is a combination of open source software and then Tesla software all the way to
the bare silicon, which is the case for the inference computer in the car.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Okay, thanks so much. That's super helpful. Then can you speak to how you're managing some of
the geopolitical risks relative to your capacity expansion? Obviously, as you guys continue to grow
at this rate, you're going to be putting some folks out of business. And then, there's going to be
some impacts around regional economy. So just want to understand how you're thinking about
that in terms of some of your CapEx plans and how you're arranging some of those relationships
with different countries and regions?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
This is a period of unusual geopolitical risk. So, I think we're -- the best we can do is have factories
in many parts of the world, such that if things get difficult in one part of the world, we can still
keep things going in the rest of world.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question comes from `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thank you very much for taking the question. Tesla has been making progress reducing cost
and did so again last quarter. Can you give an update on when you think automotive COGS per
vehicle could be under the historical $36,000 per vehicle level, and what are the key puts and
takes to get there?
A - `Andrew Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain and Energy Engineering `This is -- I think I was asked this in the past. This is very difficult to forecast. There is a series of
costs that we manage. There's series of costs in which we don't control. And so, particularly on
the commodity side, where labor cost et cetera, it's just hard to say.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And we saw very inflationary pressures -- like strong inflationary pressures for a while last
year. And now -- which obviously makes it very difficult to reduce COGS. And now we're seeing
what seems to be deflationary pressures, certainly deflationary -- deflation is a pressure. But
we're seeing commodity prices dropping as was mentioned, as Karn mentioned a moment ago.
And I mean, what do you think? I mean, basically, the trends seem to be deflationary at the
commodity level.
A - `Karn Budhiraj, Vice President of Supply Chain
Definitely, there's that. And then, there's also the unit economics improve as volumes grow.
That's the other thing we're seeing. As we're becoming a bigger and better part of a lot of
suppliers, the economies of scale come into play. There's equipment depreciation that comes
into play, equipment that was commissioned five to seven years ago. That used to be a part of
the piece price. That's completely amortized. So, we'll see situation where piece price comes
down because that equipment contribution has gone away. And then, just we continue to have
this mentality of continuous improvement in terms of labor, reducing labor, improving automation,
and just continue to get better at what we do. So we have seen -- I think every quarter, we have
seen an improvement. Of course, the commodities spiked up and down. Just in general, the
trend is towards being more efficient.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I'm totally agreeing.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Lithium prices went absolutely insane there for a while.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and they're recovering now.
A - `Karn Budhiraj, Vice President of Supply Chain
(inaudible) it used to be.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
And we're still early in the ramps -- well, not early in the ramp, but early in the cost down curve of
Austin and Berlin. And so, it takes time to work the cost out of it. First, it's a focus on ramp, ramp
it brings cost down...
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
And quality cost.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, and then once that stabilizes, we can divert bandwidth to cost reduction. And so, Austin
and Berlin saw quite a decent amount of cost reduction on a fundamental basis from Q1 to Q2.
We'll continue to do that work, that would be helpful. And so, we're just going to keep chipping
away at it.
A - `Karn Budhiraj, Vice President of Supply Chain
Packaging is a big element to that.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, logistics too.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Logistics is normalizing, which is great.
A - `Andrew Baglino, Senior Vice President of Powertrain and Energy Engineering `
(inaudible) utilization, something that team has been very focused on. So every bit of it.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and...
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Logistics is under-appreciated. Yeah, so I was (inaudible) like valves and tactics was one logistics.
A - `Karn Budhiraj, Vice President of Supply Chain
And we've made tremendous improvements in cost in all fronts expect costs. We have done pre-
pandemic expect cost level to, and our goal is to go further down.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so when we look at our progress from Q1 to Q2 on cost, whether we look at internally,
normalized for the impacts of mix-shift with Austin and Berlin being a higher percentage of our
mix normalized for S&X being a higher percentage of our mix in Q2 versus Q1. The sequential
cost reduction, it might be the largest we've had in a while. So I think it's great work on behalf of
the Tesla team, and we just got to keep it up.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's a game of pennies. So Game of Thrones with pennies.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Mark, do you have a follow-up question. I think you're muted.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. Thank you very much for all the details on that. Maybe you could put a finer point on the
downtime impact that you spoke about in your prepared comments in terms of production
impact. And then also to what extent, there is a margin impact from those factory upgrades that
you're planning this quarter? Thank you.A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the downtime, we don't know exactly the number of cars impacted because kind of the
way that we go into downtime windows for upgrades is we set aside a period of time, but then
the team is challenged to go as quickly as possible, so that we can get the factory is up and
running again and minimize cost. So it's not a profound reduction. Hopefully, it's small.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we're getting too much into the weeds here. I mean like you're asking for a level of
precision that is not possible to prepare -- answer. So let's move on.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
I think this is unfortunately all the time we have for today. So we'll speak to you all in the next few
months. Thank you very much.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.