Q1 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to our telephone
conference for the first quarter results. With us today are `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, Chairman of the Board of
Management; and `Nicolas Peter, Finance, our CFO.
First, `Nicolas Peter, Finance will take you through our financial results. `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management will give then a general
business update for the BMW Group. Afterwards, we will have time for a Q&A session.
Nicolas, it's your turn. Please go ahead.
`Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Thanks a lot, Max. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As expected, the BMW Group started
2023 with a solid performance. Group earnings came in at around EUR5.1 billion with a group EBT
margin of 13.9%. After the first three months of the year, the Automotive segment delivered an
EBIT margin of 12.1%. We achieved this in the face of persistently volatile conditions. The
geopolitical and macroeconomic situation remains tense. Inflation and interest rates remain at a
high level in many markets. The same applies to material and commodity prices.
Sales of our all-electric vehicles increased dynamically in the first three months of the year. Just
under 65,000 units were sold, an increase of over 83% compared to the same quarter of the
previous year. BEV sales at the BMW brand saw a growth of 112%. Overall, all-electric vehicles
accounted for 11% of customer deliveries.
Sales momentum also came from the market launch of vehicles in the upper price segment
including, for example, the BMW i7. The BMW Group's total vehicle sales for the first quarter went
down slightly on the previous year with just over 588,000 vehicles sold. While the U.S. market
posted significant growth, we saw a moderate decrease in deliveries in China where the after-
effect of the coronavirus wave at the beginning of the year were being felt. Europe remained
stable overall. In the first quarter of 2023, the operating result of our Chinese joint venture, BBAwas integrated fully into the Automotive segment's income statement. In the previous year, BBA
was only fully consolidated from 11 February.
The Automotive segment EBIT for 2022 and 2023, therefore include consolidation effects of
differing amounts. So previous year's financial results also reflected the high one-time effect from
the full consolidation of BBA. So quarterly results are therefore not directly comparable.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with a look at the group's earnings performance. Revenues
reached just over EUR36.9 billion with a cost of sales of around EUR29.1 billion. A key factor in
these year-on-year increases of 18.3% and 13.5% respectively is a full integration of BBAs
operating business in 2023. The Automotive segment also benefited from positive pricing and
mix effects. The group financial result for the first three months was slightly negative at minus
EUR246 million. This represents a significant decrease of just over EUR9.1 billion compared to the
previous year. The main factor here is the one-time reevaluation effect of around EUR7.7 billion
from the fair market valuation of BBA equity interests in 2022. In the first six weeks of last year,
BBA also still contributed approximately EUR300 million to the held equity result. In 2023, BBA
earnings were no longer included in the held equity result.
In the other entity segment, the fair market value of interest rate hedging transactions declined
slightly in the first quarter of 2023. In the prior year quarter, interest rate hedges had developed
positively due to the sharp increase in interest rates. The difference in earnings from the previous
year was about EUR700 million. At the end of the first quarter, group earnings totaled just over
EUR5.1 billion. The group EBT margin of 13.9% was significantly above our strategic target of at
least 10%.
Ladies and gentlemen, our strong financial position lays the foundation for the transformation of
the BMW Group. We continue to invest in new models and structures with a clear focus on topic
for the future. Electrification, digitalization, and automated driving. Research and development
expenditure was significantly higher than the previous year at just under EUR1.6 billion. Our R&D
ratio of 4.2% according to the German commercial code was within our long-term target range of
4% to 5%. We are funding investments from our operational cash flow. Capital expenditure was
about EUR200 million higher than the comparable figure for 2022 at just under EUR1.3 billion. Due
to higher revenues, the CapEx ratio was on par with the previous year at 3.6%. We expect the
ratio for the full year to be around 6%.
Let's move on to the Automotive segment. EBIT margin for the first quarter came in at 12.1%.
Earnings before financial result exceeded the previous year's EBIT by around 60% at just under
EUR3.8 billion. Full integration of BBA's operating result increased both the segment's first
quarter revenues and its cost of sales. With regard to BBA, segment earnings for the first quarter
of 2022 were impacted by depreciation and amortization from the purchase price allocation and
the elimination of interim profits in connection with intragroup deliveries totaling around EUR1.2
billion. In the first part of this year, depreciation and amortization from the purchase price
allocation resulted in an expense of around EUR400 million. Excluding the BBA consolidation
effects, the EBIT margin would be 13.2%.
In the first three months of the year, we continued to see robust pricing for our products. The
product mix also developed positively, especially in the upper segments with products such as
the new 7 Series, the updated X7, the XM, and of course, the Rolls-Royce family. Higher material
and commodity prices, an increase in research and development spending, and a higher
percentage of all-electric vehicles also pushed up the cost of sales. In the first quarter, we were
able to compensate for these cost increases with strong pricing and an improved product mix.Free cash flow in the Automotive segment for the year to the end of March totaled just under
EUR2 billion despite the seasonal increase of inventory levels. We are therefore on track to
achieve our targeted free cash flow of around EUR7 billion for the full year. By mid-2023, the
BMW AG will finalize its current share buyback program of EUR2 billion, which was launched in July
2022. The company's strong operating performance is the basis for continuing our share buyback
activities. As announced yesterday, the Board of Management had therefore decided on a
second share buyback program as part of the authorization granted by the 2022 Annual General
Meeting. This program amounts to another EUR2 billion. It will start after the end of the first
program and will be completed by December 31, 2025, at the latest.
Let's turn now to the Financial Services segment. In the financing and leasing business with retail
customers, the volume of new business decreased by 14%. This was mainly due to price
increases steaming from higher interest rates and intense competition in the Financial Services
sector. However, price developments and an improved product mix in the automotive business
had a positive impact resulting in an higher average financing volume per vehicle.
Segment earnings before tax totaled EUR945 million. This moderate year on year decrease of
6.2% is mainly due to higher refinancing costs. Income from the resell of end-of-lease vehicles
remains consistently high and the risk situation is stable. The credit loss ratio is still at the very low
rate of 1 -- 0.13%.
The Motorcycle segment also got off to a successful start in 2023. In the first three months of its
centenary year, the BMW Motorrad brand grew its sales by 1.1% year-on-year, delivering its best-
ever first quarter sales result was around 48,000 units sold. This impressive performance is
underpinned by an attractive product lineup. At the end of the first quarter, the segment's
operating earnings totaled EUR154 million with an EBIT margin of 16.5%.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the first quarter of 2023, the BMW Group's business developed
positively despite the volatile business environment. We continue to benefit from stable pricing in
new and pre-owned car markets. However, we do expect the competitive environment and pre-
owned car markets to gradually normalize through 2023. There is still some uncertainty around
stabilization in the Chinese market, which is an underlying assumption for our outlook. After a
good start to 2023, as forecast, we expect the full year to progress in line with our outlook.
Therefore, our guidance remains unchanged. This assumes that geopolitical and economic
conditions do not deteriorate significantly. Group earnings before tax will decrease significantly
without a tailwind from the reevaluation of previously held equity interests in BBA.
In the Automotive segment, we are planning for a slight increase in deliveries overall. The all-
electric share of total vehicle deliveries is projected to increase significantly. The EBIT margin in
the Automotive segment should be within the range of 8% to 10% with a segment ROCE of
between 15% and 20%. In the Motorcycle segment, we anticipate a slight increase in deliveries
with an EBIT margin of 8% to 10% and the ROCE of 21% to 26%. In the Financial Services segment,
return on equity should be between 14% and 17%.
The size of the workforce and the share of women in management positions are forecast to
increase slightly. Once again this year, we are targeting a slight reduction in CO2 emissions in the
new vehicle fleet as well as in CO2 emissions per vehicle produced. The macroeconomic
situation remains difficult and to -- and the geopolitical environment is volatile. Our guidance does
not factor in the possibility of a deep recession in key sales markets or further escalation of the
war between Russia and Ukraine.Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group's strategy remains robust even in highly volatile times. It
is well-balanced and focused on the long term. With the positive effects of a strong operating
performance, we continue to make targeted investments in the future competitiveness of our
company. Even during the transition to emission-free mobility, the BMW Group will continue on its
road to success. We are determined to stay to cause proceeding at the same time with prudence
and flexibility, knowing that we can rely on our attractive product portfolio. We remain on track to
meet our goals for the year in a volatile business environment and are looking forward to the rest
of 2023 with confidence.
Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Nicolas. And now, our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management. Oliver, please go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group has a strong global footprint. It serves as a local partner
in individual regions of the world contributing positively to industrial economic value in all.
We currently have production sites at 31 locations on five continents. We also have research and
development centers in 17 countries, not to mention 41 sales and marketing and financial services
locations across the globe. This is how we make sure specific trends, technological innovations,
and the different needs of customers in the regions are incorporated in our products and their
development. To achieve this, we enter into targeted strategic collaborations with strong and
innovative local tech partners. Our environment remains highly volatile and will likely continue to
be shaped by unforeseeable circumstances.
Many experts assume that the major economic areas are likely to drift further apart, both from a
political and technological perspective and also with regard to regulations. That is why it is so
important for us to seize opportunities that will always present themselves at short notice in
markets around the world. And at the same time, our strategic thinking, our actions, and our
decision-making are always looking forward with a clear long-term focus.
Our goal is for the BMW Group to maintain its profitable growth and always be in a position to
make appropriate investments in our future. In keeping with this logic, we are charting our own
course for the future step-by-step with our rolling strategic approach and long range corporate
planning. And on the other hand, our strength lies in the consistency with which we pursue our
strategy.
On the other hand, it comes from the flexibility and speed with which we tackle sudden changes.
Once again, we have ambitious plans for the current financial year. After the first three months,
we're on track to meet our goals for the full year and that holds true by the way, also for the first
four months. As Nicholas Peter explained, the financial results for the first quarter of 2022 and the
first quarter of 2023 are not directly comparable due to the one-time effect from the full
consolidation of our BBA inventory in 2022. At the same time, our product line is younger,
broader, and more attractive than ever across all brands, all segments, and all drive technologies
with outstanding vehicles that we are recently launched or will be released onto the market in the
very near future.
We are exploiting potential everywhere and experiencing a noticeable tailwind. As you know, we
expect group deliveries to be slightly higher than this year compared to 2022 as we continue to
build on our solid incoming orders. This applies equally and that is a particular quality to our all-electric models and to our conventionally powered vehicles. This proves once again that our long-
term product strategy, including ramping our BEVs in the line with demand is delivering results.
Through our balanced positioning in the world regions, we can compensate for regional market
fluctuations, just as, for example, a certain market weakness in China can currently be offset by a
stronger performance in the United States of America. The same is true of our broad technology
approach. This enables us to meet different demands in markets while accounting for the varying
speeds at which they're creating the necessary infrastructure for e-mobility.
We have remained true to our conviction that all types of drivetrain must make a positive
contribution to reducing CO2 emissions. This is particularly relevant in the short and medium
term. Our BEV deliveries grew strongly in Q1 across all four major regions, Europe, Asia, the
Americas, and the rest of the world. BEV sales for the BMW brand alone grew about 112% on
average. All regions contributed to this development. In April, the BMW brand continued this
trend by doubling BEV sales yet again. Our global balance in BEV growth fits perfectly with our
local-for-local approach, by our worldwide manufacturing activities, R&D, and our BEV production.
Together, all of these factors increase our resilience as a global company.
Now, we're expanding this even more by adding an additional component, local manufacturing of
high voltage batteries. This has already been established for current electric models at our
facilities in Germany and China. In the next step, we are adding further capacity for the sixth
generation of our battery technology, for example, in Woodruff for our United States plant, in
Spartanburg, and in Debrecenfor for our future plant in Hungary as well as in San Luis Potosi in
Mexico.
Now, what will be the key success factors for us this year? First, our diverse range of products
with a clear focus on ramping up e-mobility. Second, digitalization of our products and of the
company. And third, on-point preparation for the Neue Klasse. Let's first start with the first point.
Regional differences in demand for alternative drive technologies are becoming increasingly
evident. I experienced this for myself just recently. In April, I visited the Japanese market and the
Shanghai Auto Show. In Japan, for example, hybrids and efficient combustion engine vehicles are
especially popular with customers. There is also a lot of interest in hydrogen as an alternative
method of propulsion. It was therefore not surprising that the BMW iX5 Hydrogen from our global
pilot fleet was welcomed with the open arms. Demand for pure battery electric vehicles on the
other hand, is developing steadily but slowly in Japan and remains at a low level.
On the other hand, you have China where BEV demand is growing rapidly. Today, China is already
the biggest growth driver for e-mobility. For the first time, BMW presented only electrified
models at the Auto Shanghai Motor Show. These included the i7 M70 xDrive, the XM Label Red as
a plug-in hybrid and the iX1 Long wheelbase version, which we built in China for China. It is no
secret that China's BEV market is highly competitive and equally among both established and
new players. Several manufacturers are currently lowering prices, in some cases substantially to
gain market share.
At the BMW Group, we have a strong position in China. In the first quarter of 2023, we sold
significantly more BEVs there than our established competitors and also more than many new
manufacturers. By the end of this year, the BMW Group will already offer 11 electric models in
China across all our brands. And with our BEVs, we are exclusively targeting the upper premium
and luxury segments. Also in China and in the current context, we benefit from our broad
technological approach. The comparison of the car markets in Japan and China illustrates clearly
the extent to which automotive manufacturers face varied market requirements during their
transformation. We are targeting profitable growth with all drive technologies and in all segmentsand therefore, leveraging earnings potential. The upper premium and luxury segments are a
good example of this.
A growth in this segment will get a major boost this year from new BMW models, the 7 Series and
the XM as well as the X7 model update. Not even to mention the Rolls-Royce model family. We're
currently releasing X5 and X6 updates on the markets, including the particularly successful long
wheelbase version of the X5 in China. And let's not forget the popular and in-demand models
from BMW M.
Over the coming months, we will release the model updates for the X5 M and the X6 M. Many
fans are also looking forward to the M3 Touring that was just released onto the market. It was
recently named Dream Car of 2023 by Autocar Awards. And that's not the end. The M2 Coupe is
already ready to hit the road.
With our strong portfolio, we are targeting growth in the mid-double-digit percentage range in
the upper premium and luxury segments this year. And we were aiming even higher with our fully
electric vehicles and planning for high-double-digit growth. Over the year, the BEVs are expected
to account for 15% of our global deliveries. This will be another big leap and the highest absolute
increase we have targeted so far. Key models in particular will drive our sales, including at BMW i4
Sport Coupe, the iX, the iX3, and the new i7 and the new iX1 and MINI Cooper SE. And we will
keep up the pace with additional new products. The new BMW 5 Series and new BMW X2 will be
released onto the markets towards the end of the year, including the i5 and the iX2 BEV variants.
The BMW Group will then have at least one all-electric model in all its main model ranges on the
roads. More recently conducted intensive testing of the i5 in under the most difficult conditions,
including extremely low temperatures. It also impressed media representatives at our recent pre-
launch test drive events as the very positive coverage demonstrates. And the bottom line is the
BMW 5 Series is the top business sedan with all drive trains, conventional, just as well as fully
electric. Our BEV roadmap is precisely defined. By 2024, at least one in five of the BMW's troops
new vehicles should be a BEV. By 2025, it will be one in four, and in 2026, one in three. This is
another reason why we are in a better position with our targeted BEV ramp-up than our key
competitive. As a company, we remain innovative. In the field, for example, of battery technology,
we are in the top 3 for patent applications in Germany. There are only two battery specialists
from Korea and China ahead of us last year.
And with that, let's move on to the second topic. Digitalization is the most dynamic field in the
mobility of tomorrow. That is why we are making BMW digital because digital products and
features can only be created in an organization that views digitalization holistically as an
opportunity. The know-how we have in our team is crucial in this respect. That is why we have
launched the biggest individual training program in the history of our company for key areas of
digitalization. The digital boost, as we call it, will create the knowledge and tools we need to
identify and implement digital potential in every area of responsibility. Let me give you three
examples to show how we are implementing this knowledge to create a seamless digital
experience of mobility that benefits our customers.
First in the new BMW 5 Series, customer will experience automated driving in a new dimension. It
is equipped with the highway assistant, which continuously performs distance control and steering
tasks. For the first time, the vehicle changes lanes using I-activation and absolute world's first.
Customers will not find such comparable overall package anywhere else. Second, our Digital Key
Plus. The digital vehicle key is no longer just available for Apple devices. Customers can now also
use their Android smartphone to unlock and start their BMW. This is made possible by ultra wide
band technology that guarantees maximum security. You don't even have to take your phone outof the pocket. And third, our multimedia offering in the new BMW 7 Series. Earlier this year, we
launched a pilot program that makes selected live Bundesliga games available in certain models.
We're now expanding this option. In the new 7 Series, the theater screen transforms the rear
compartment into an exclusive seat in the stadium.
And this brings me to my third and final point. Alongside our current product lineup, we are also
gearing up for the next big breakthrough in innovation. 2023 and 2024 will be the decisive phase
of our preparations for the Neue Klasse. It will bring added momentum to our sales of all electric
vehicles from 2025 onwards. We plan to release at least six models in this entirely new BMW
modern generation onto the market in the first 24 months after the start of production. We are
deliberately starting out in high-volume segments with a Sports Activity Vehicle and a sedan in the
3-Series segment. The Neue Klasse embodies all three pillars of future mobility. It is entirely
geared towards digitalization and sustainability and also fully electric. Our BMW i Vision Circular
from 2021 and this year's BMW i Vision Dee show the direction of our thinking. In just a few
months, at the IAA MOBILITY, we will be sharing other topics of digital, circular, and electric
complement each other to form a totally new and coherent overall concept.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see during the current financial year, we are once again taking
a two-branch approach. Internally, we are focusing on our operational excellence. Across all
brands and all segments, we're offering our customers a new, modern, technologically diverse,
and innovative range of products. At the same time, we are systematically investing in our future
and aligning the entire company for the launch of the Neue Klasse. The BMW Group remains
focused on delivering its profitable growth and holding its successful course. For us, that means
an EBIT margin in the Automotive segment with our target range of 8% to 10% even during the
transformation towards e-mobility.
Thank you very much.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management. Ladies and gentlemen, now the line will shortly be open for
questions. Please wait for some technical advice.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) A moment
please for our first question.
Our first question will come from `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane SA from Exane. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane SA `
Hi, there. Okay. I hope you can hear me. Can you hear me all right?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Yes. We can hear you. Yes.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane SA `
Okay, okay. Perfect. Thank you, and thank you for taking my questions. I have two if I may. One
around the upper-end vehicle sales and the second around China. So I wondered whether -- justmomentum and growth in that upper end of the range will more than offset the headwind from a
rising BEV mix. And then looking a little bit further out, is there a midterm plan to grow the sales
contribution of the upper-end vehicles to a certain proportion of the overall volume?
And then turning to China. You outlined that it's noticeable that you are managing to take BEV
share in China to a greater extent than your incumbent peers. But can I just ask at what stage do
you think that your BEV market share in China can draw a level with your ICE market share? And is
that something that you think can happen perhaps by the middle of the decade because
obviously you still have a fair amount of BEV products in the pipeline?
And then just to finish, of course, I should say, Dr. Peter, thank you so much for a very many
insightful discussions over the last few years, and my very best wishes for your next chapter.
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Dorothee. We start with our chairman, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, and then Nicolas. Okay. Oliver,
please?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Dorothee, thank you for your question. Best regards from Munich. Let me start with your China
question first. The BEV market, of course, in relative terms is having this growth market
momentum. This is market-driven but this is also by offer-driven. By the end of this year, we will
have 11 fully electrified products from the BMW group in the Chinese market. So we belong
market -- in a strong market push. And by the way, whilst we were still down from the previous --
after March -- after April, we are already up 4% in the Chinese market. So we are regaining
momentum with a strong push from the product side. So with that said, when exactly is the BEV
share of our market offerings at exactly the same volume the ICE model? I don't know. I cannot
tell you but it will be first of all sooner than later. And it -- of course, it will be in this decade and
the rest of the market will show. We will have BEV models in every segment from MINI all the way
up to Rolls-Royce and in every segment of BMW. And then we will see what the market is there.
We are ready to follow the market wherever it moves. And of course, as we always said, the
market conditions will depend on infrastructure, on the availability of raw materials, and, at the
end, most importantly, to final a customer taste. But again, we started very successful in this year
and the rest we will see.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Oliver. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Dorothee, really good to hear, and thank you for your very kind personal remark. Maybe let's start
with all-electric sales because we kind of look from two perspectives. One is to say, well, that's in
margin dilution and well, I would come to it. But we have to say we are very pleased that our all-
electric cars are performing extremely well in all three major regions. We are very confident from
the level we have seen last year close to 10% penetration of all-electric sales in '22 to grow our
all-electric business to 15% in the course of the year. And this is backed by really good strong
incoming orders also in particular for the very recently launched iX1 and i7. And you might have
read that the first feedbacks from the media from journalists regarding the i5 was extremely --
really extremely positive. So we are confident to achieve this this target.Second comment is contribution is (Technical Difficulty) for the all-electric cars and we anticipated
two or two to three years ago. So I would say the glass is half full, half empty and we are very,
very confident to be definitely also after the first strong quarter this year to be on track to
achieve our guidance of 8% to 10% and this is, of course, backed by the strong performance in
the upper part of the segment. We will plus/minus double our 7 Series sales in '23 compared to
'22 even before having the full year effect of the volume model in China on the 7 Series. The X7,
which got a facelift a couple of months ago is performing very well. XM just launched. Rolls-Royce
well on track and not to talk about the end models. So we are -- based on this, we are really
confident to deliver in line with our guidance and to be very, very clear, I would -- it's too early
because we are only four months into the year, but I would not be surprised if we would be -- end
up in the upper part of our guidance corridor.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much. So we'll see next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. from Goldman Sachs. Please unmute your line.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. `
Yes. Good afternoon, and thank you for taking my questions. And similarly, I pass on my very best
wishes to Dr. Peter and we hope we can remain in touch. I actually wanted to talk about two
similar areas to Dorothee but actually slightly different questions. Obviously, in the interim report,
you do talk about competition in the Chinese auto market becoming more intense. When we
consider BMW's portfolio, are you seeing the competition across your portfolio or only on certain
vehicles such as compact cars? And how larger risk do you see from Chinese competition also
becoming more prevalent in other regions such as Europe?
The second question I had was also on the upper-end vehicles. I believe it's more than 12 months
now since you purchased ALPINA brand with enormous appeal to car and driving enthusiasts,
arguably the ultimate Q car. But there is no mention of the brands on your product Slide 8. And to
date, I think the communication around the intent to ALPINA has been limited. Maybe this call isn't
the right forum but does ALPINA play any role in the double-digit percent growth that you expect
to the upper segment this year? And can you give us any insight into when we might get to hear
more about your plans for ALPINA and its future role within the BMW Group? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, George. Please, Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
George, thank you for your questions. What we see in China is, and I think that is very important
to discover, market segments are more alive than ever. And I'm talking about car sizes, UKL
segment, MKL segment, TKL segment, and the Premium segment. The fastest growth in the
Chinese market is in the base segment. Unlike here in the Western world, it's exactly the other
way around.
The biggest growth is -- starts from the base segment. And of course, through that
development, there is a lot of competition underway. That does not mean that the Premium
segment is the segment which is attacked firstly. And in our case, we are a strong Premiumgoing well over CNY1 million. That is very solid. And in that segment we're -- which is still very
much alive and very solid, the competition is not as challenged than in the base segment. I think
that's very important to know. Your -- with the competencies which are buildup in the end-market,
of course, there will be a global footprint -- increasing global footprint of Chinese manufacturers
and that is at a starting point and I cannot tell you what the development will be. Conquering new
markets is always a difficult task and it takes not years, it takes decades. As you can see, with us
in the American market, that should take more than 25 years with local manufacturing footprint,
and so on. And we took more than 20 years to develop our market position in the Chinese
market. And the same holds true for any new competitors trying to hold foot in the European
market. So that is to see and of course, we see what is going on in the world and we are not
ignoring it, and the rest we will see how. At the end of the day, customers will behave.
To your second question, ALPINA. ALPINAhas a 50-year-old tradition and a super strong market
value. And after making that acquisition, we of course set down closely how do we preserve that
market and that of course will never be a high-volume segment. And in 2026, we will offer
products branded ALPINA and that of course will build on that manufacturing and product
competence brand history that define us and we just look to get this just this week. We looked at
the cars and I can only say I'm very excited and I am very happy how our plans to further develop
the ALPINA brand further. And the rest we will -- you have to be surprised then when it comes to
the market.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, George. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much. Jose from J.P. Morgan, and Nicolas also, thank you for all the great dialog
over the past years and the strong collaboration. We already had the opportunity to exchange a
few weeks ago but again, thank you from my side. Maybe a few topics just simply on CapEx. If
you can maybe provide a bit more context about the CapEx ratio in 2023? Especially in the first
quarter, we are starting to see a substantial increase in CapEx on a year-on-year basis. Can you
maybe provide additional colors with regards to the proportion that goes into BEV or into ICE and
how much of the increase we're seeing now, which is actually is substantial, is it related to China?
Very well balanced by the way on cash flow with depreciation but a bit more color as to where the
absolute CapEx is going in '23?
Second, if you could please provide a little bit more maybe guidance with regards to the work
you're doing to improve the cost competitiveness of BEVs and achieve this disparity between ICE
and BEV in the coming years will be appreciated.
And for Oliver. I would love to hear a bit more around the battery technology. You mentioned in
your remarks that you are top 3 in terms of patents for battery registrations in Germany, I believe.
Can you provide a bit more color what do you mean with these statements, how far -- how
competitive is BMW on battery technology, and what do these battery applications mean at the
end of the day? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate AffairsOkay. Thank you very much, Jose. We start with Nikolas and then Oliver. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Jose, maybe to start with the topic of CapEx. In '23, we are mainly investing on one hand side, in
battery module production. You might have read that we are kicking off also here Bavaria,
between our plants of Regensburg, Dingolfing, and Munich. On Neue production side, we are
investing in the ramp-up of our plant in Angouleme, in Debrecen. This is a plant where we will kick
off Neue Klasse's all-electric platform from '25 onwards. And at the same time, we've announced
a couple of months ago that we will -- we are investing in particular in the U.S. environment as well
in order to prepare Spartanburg form all-electric cars with on one hand side an investment of $1.7
billion in the plant itself and in battery modular production as well -- slight -- a little bit outside of
the plant. At the same time, we are ramping up with a partner Envision in South Carolina --
actually module production terms. So it's definitely very, very much focused on the EV ramp-up
and this is, of course, backed again as I've mentioned already by the strong demand we see for
our all-electric cars.
Cost competitiveness, I rather would talk about contribution parity. Contribution parity is definitely
the ambition, the goal we have set ourselves for Neue Klasse. So by '25, '26, we want to be on
contribution parity. And of course, cost play an important role, and this is exactly one of the
reasons why we invest in the sixth generation of battery cells. The objective is to have a
significant amount, 50% cost reduction with the sixth generation, which of course will contribute
to contribution parity.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, let me talk a little about why the -- what the electric drivetrain does for us. When we look at
the electric drivetrain, we of course look at the cell and I will come to your question in a minute,
but we also have to look at the high-voltage batteries, which are so the assembly of all the cells
into one large battery. We have to look at the drivetrain technology during the transmission, and
then of course most importantly how is all that integrated into a fully functional vehicle?
Besides the cell, we're manufacturing all the other steps by ourselves. So we have a very, very
high vertical integration of all elements of the drivetrain. Now you might ask to us, why don't you
do cell all by yourself? And as we have announced already, we are in the development of the
sixth generation of our battery cell. That's also why we have that very high amount of cell patents.
So the next cell technology will be cylindrical and has a diameter of 46 millimeters and that will be
at the point of market entry the benchmark of that technology.
Do we need to have a very high manufacturing footprint to do that? No, you don't because there
is ample global competition with that technology. There are a multitude of local players and we
will distribute this with our R&D-developed cells around the globe with different suppliers. To do
that all by yourself would mean you would -- at the same time, you would have to start up
factories in at least four region in the world at the same time and that is I think a task, which you
should start to think that whether that is possible. So with our technology, with our R&D know-
how, we look for various partners to ramp up quickly and I underline quickly in various regions our
new cell technology will then, with the other common components I talked about, to ramp up the
Neue Klasse quickly. So it's not only about the manufacturing to sum it up, on the R&D technology
and the R&D knowledge is even more important for the ramp-up of the Neue Klasse. Thank you.A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much. The next question...
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you. The next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes. Hello. Thanks for taking my questions. You can hear me?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Yes. Perfect. Perfect.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Excellent.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Awesome. Go ahead.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Just on -- I have -- the first question that I have that is relating to other cost changes. If I get it
right, you were saying that basically, other cost changes are getting a bit bigger headwind in the
next few quarters. Volkswagen said today that they expect cost tailwinds in H2. Just want to
understand what's your view on cost and I know you have got other items also included in that
line, so it's not comparable. Maybe also might be due to lower capitalization but maybe you can
elaborate a little bit what's driving your view on other cost changes and what the pass in terms of
quarterly progression that we can expect from here.
Then the other question that I have that relates a little bit to Financial Services because you were
stressing that the competition is increasing and you are not willing to follow the trends in all
regions. So I just want to understand where you see particularly these competitive trends the
most, so where is the competition the highest? Is it more an issue for particular regions or it's all
over the place or just in certain vehicle segments? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Horst. Nicolas, please?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Horst, maybe let's start with Financial Services. But first of all, what I believe is extremely relevantmanagement perspective. Financial services is in good shape. So we are very, very confident. We
see residual value still trending in positive territory, in particularly in the U.S. environment well in
the four-digit arrear per car, so that's a really positive situation. Increasing competition is, in
particular, China a topic and is related to the non-automotive financial market participants and is in
particular related to the way provisions are paid to the network, to dealers. And this is definitely
something we are not following because we believe it doesn't make any plan in particular in an
environment and you have seen this looking at the numbers, where we despite the drop in
Financial Services, we grow our market share in -- with the Automotive business. So this means
we don't see any reason to accelerate in this area. But we are very confident, we have seen this
in the U.S. market. If you look to the U.S. market, you've seen a drop in particular at the end of the
third quarter, fourth -- beginning of the first quarter in '22 and now we are back to penetration
levels of close to 70% in the U.S. environment.
Now, if you look at the Auto which is I believe the background of your question and of cost
comment Volkswagen numbers, we are focusing on our numbers. If you look what we anticipate
for the full year, you will see in particular a positive development with a slight volume increase
which is planned and we are already four months into the year, slightly ahead of previous year
from a global perspective. We expect on the other hand side, a very solid product mix
development for the reasons I've outlined in particular with on one hand side growth in the high-
end segments and some headwinds coming from the higher BEV share and also a stable
situation with regard to pricing, which is underlined also by the situation in China. Despite that
what we've seen in China in the non-premium market, our pricing position remains very, very
stable.
On the other -- in other cost changes, we have -- we anticipate slightly positive effect coming
from and base effect from BBA cost inflation. So inflation impacts will have in particular higher
material costs and component costs. Cost of logistics will have a negative impact and the same
goes for personnel costs. This has to do with the collective wage agreement in Germany and we
expect also some cost headwind in connection with lower capitalization ratio in the area. And
residual values, we anticipate an slight gradual, what I would call normalization.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
But material costs going to be a tailwind in H2, right, as laid by you?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Material costs are going to be a headwind in -- for the full year, have been headwind for the -- in
Q1 as well. If you look at raw material and FX, we've guided for both combined between mid-
three-digit to high-three-digit. Today, I would rather say it's probably in the lower part of the -- the
more positive part of this corridor, which means mid-three-digit but of course, this can better.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay. Good then. Thank you very much.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
And, Nicolas, all the best, yes.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Yes. Thank you.A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Thanks. Thanks, Horst. Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yes, Thank you very much. I have two questions, please. Oliver, the first one for you. Over the last
years, you made a pretty tireless effort to tell everyone about the need for flexibility of
drivetrains and it's fair to say that that didn't resonate very well with the capital market and other
stakeholders. Now all by, that leaves a lot of potential savings in the market. I certainly changed
my view on that a bit with everything going on globally last year and I think others will follow.
Now, you see the German press being positive on it this morning. Do you feel like your message
resonates with an emphasis on BEV but other options, etter with regulators and other
stakeholders as well? Are we further banning ICE in Europe, are other OEMs perhaps coming to
you asking for more engine operations?
And then secondly, Nicolas, we touched on this already with full-year results but I try it again. Now
you announce the next share buyback program. I think it's fair to say that everyone really likes this
from a capital market perspective. Why don't you institutionalize this and just say that from now
on, what's excess cash will return to shareholders in the form of these buyback programs
whenever it's available? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Tim. We start with Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Tim. It doesn't resonate well not because it was wrong. It was despite the fact that it was
correctly resonate one because apparently you didn't want to list but it's okay. I think if you look at
markets, there are so tuberous and I was talking about our visits to Japan and China this year,
they are so tuberous and if you look at electromobility, ramping up depends on raw materials,
depends on charging infrastructure in Japan on market taste, on customer taste. It's not even
about regulation alone. And so many -- if you make so many ticks in the boxes, and as you see,
the few as we seen -- saw last week and saw this week, the few on electric mobility is very
positive. But if you see the development, the risks of that 100% only approach is become very
apparent to everyone involved. Raw materials, the infrastructure. Where ICE remain sane, it's
almost impossible to build 100% charging infrastructure in Europe in 12 years' time. And if you
look at the development that remains true and that underlines the necessity to have the ability,
first of all, to be able to respond, to be able to be to build products which are independent on
drivetrains and that is what we have done for the last five years. And if you see the first
messages from the i5, you see the test drive from the i7 against the competition, these are not
compromised products and I was trying to convey that to the public. But of course, I see that you
need to see the products and drive the products to believe. And they are now in the market and Istrategy, which is resilient and not pinpointed toward one solution. This brings you in a big
dependency on outside circumstance. But as you rightfully said, the world is turning quickly and I
think I'm very happy that the world is finally understanding what BMW does. And with that to
Nicolas.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Nicolas. Yes.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Tim, maybe just to start with, BMW has definitely one of the strongest balance sheets in the
industry and this is reflected also in our rating, which is the second best in the global industry and
still the best amongst our European OEMs. So we are definitely in a strong position and this is
exactly why after having probably completed program one in the next couple of weeks, we will
immediately continue with the next phase, which was announced yesterday and this also gives
you an indication that we are very confident that we are able to generate the cash flows. We
anticipate EUR7 billion for this year and we've -- well, if you take into account the results of the
first quarter, this I believe should make the market confident that we are well on well on track.
On the other hand side, we've experienced a lot of volatility in our business if you reflect on the
last two or three years. And this is why we believe it makes on one hand side, a lot of sense to
implement and to run in a very systematic consistent manner our share buyback program without
saying it will go for the next decade exactly in this way. So I believe it's the right combination. We
are implementing -- right now, we have executed program one faster than we initially anticipated.
We continue now with program two and at -- when we will come to the end of program two, we
will decide what's next. But we still have now some way to go.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
So thank you very much, Nicolas. So we come to our last two questions and then we close our
Q&A session. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will come from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS from UBS.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, and, Nicolas, also from my side, many thanks for the great
partnership and all the open dialog we had over the years. And all the best for future. First
question right away to you. As far as your comment about pricing is concerned, I think you
emphasized that a little bit more as a risk for the remainder of the year. And I'm just wondering if
you can share a little bit more of your thoughts, which segments, which regions your caution is
valid or coming from just to better understand to which extent there is BMW's usual conservatism
built in that kind of wording or whether there was any specific reason to be more cautious on the
pricing side?
And the second one just following up on the capital allocation question. It's great you continue
with the share buyback, the EUR2 billion and that's despite significantly higher share price and you
keep paying a regular dividend. But on top of that, because you have a EUR7 billion per year, free
cash flow, you are sitting on a big cash pile. That doesn't seem to be needed for anything CapEx-
wise in the next few years. Is that what you really need to stay a top-rated automotive companyor is there anything you are potentially considering with the cash pile you currently have? Thank
you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Good. Thank you very much, Patrick. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Maybe, Patrick, to start with pricing and maybe it's worthwhile to go through the major three
markets a little bit more in detail. To start with the U.S. market, you follow us as we do follow U.S.
auto data, you see that overall, there is a slight increase in discount levels but really a slight
increase in the first three months and amongst all the premium manufacturers, we are definitely
the most positive one with the fewest -- lowest discount levels. And if you compare those to
historic levels, they are very low. And what makes us confident in -- for the U.S. environment on
top is that from a product allocation, due to the fact that we have now a full year availability of X5
after the China localization of the X5, we definitely have the right product mix for the U.S. market.
And the third element, if you look at inventory level, we are still trading below 20 days and that's
a really low level and we aren't gaining segment share at the same time. So that's a really good
strong combination of the different KPIs in the U.S. environment. If we look at China, we've seen
in particular in the upper part of our business very good pricing. Also in terms of -- if you look back
in history, we've been able over the last two years, to grow prices in line with inflation and
elevated costs -- material costs. So we are on a really good level in the China environment. We
have not adjusted prices and our order book in Germany and in the other European market
brings us till beginning of the fourth quarter of this year. Now, with production being available on a
much better level and in line with customer orders, we are confident to manage this period in a --
in very, very good manner. And we have in particular also in Europe a very strong demand for all-
electric cars.
Now, Patrick, CapEx. Capital allocation as we've already discussed in several meetings, we are
planning and as I've outlined the reasons to invest in particular in the ramp-up of e-mobility
investing in Europe in U.S. $1.7 billion. And on the other hand side, as I said, the environment is
volatile and therefore, it makes a lot of sense to remain flexible and on one hand side, to
continue programs like the share buyback program whenever the situation is as it is right now so
solid. And we are confident to on one hand side, deliver strong cash flows but on the other hand
side, we have enough room to maneuver if needed to act. And if we would have something in
mind, Patrick, I would not announce it now in the Q1 call but we would have the flexibility of course
thanks to our strong liquidity and cash position.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Good. Thank you.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
I see. You want to leave a big savings accounts to your accounts.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Okay.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you. Last question, please.
Operator
And our last question will come from `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. (Operator Instructions)
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi. Thank you. Good afternoon. Nicolas, thank you very much for the very comprehensive pricing
comments. I wanted to come back maybe in that context. I found very interesting what you said
on contribution margin, wanting to discuss contribution margin for the BEV parity rather than cost
parity. So can you just confirm the difference of this price the -- with respect to contribution
margin and how you see that developing?
My understanding is you want to keep pricing perhaps higher than internal combustion engine
cars to help achieve that contribution parity. Maybe you could just talk about this a little bit more
and not least in the context but of course the price pressure that Tesla has brought into that
market segment. And sort of -- and on the same topic with the prices, while I really appreciate
the detailed comments, you've also confused me a little bit because that sounded all really, really
constructive but at the same time, I understand that you're also seeing potential pressure from
the new car pricing in the further course of the year, which is part of the reason for your still more
conservative guidance drifting back into the range. So if you could clarify that.
And then if I can squeeze in one last one. Just on the headwind bucket of supplier cost
specifically, can you give us any kind of magnitude? I mean I appreciate that's perhaps again
something that you don't want to discuss in a public earnings call but just in -- a sort of rough
magnitude if that's one of the larger buckets or if you think you'll end up with relatively minor
headwinds, that would be really helpful. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Yes. Thank you very much, Henning. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Henning, maybe start with number one. Contribution parity doesn't -- it's not only focused of
course on drivetrain. Drivetrain plays an important role but the ambition with Neue Klasse is to be
if we compare products to each other to be on contribution parity. So when we say, well, Neue
Klasse will significantly contribute to achieve this target, it's not only related to the sixth
generation of battery cells. But it's also to the -- impacted in a positive way by the way Neue
Klasse is designed, produced, and so on. So we are confident to achieve, and of course, pricing
plays an important role.
Potential pressure, so what I've described is what we experienced today, but this is of course no
guarantee for the quarters to come. And this is exactly one of the reasons why we are -- while we
are on one hand side confident for the quarters to come, we remain very careful and we observe
exactly what's going on in the various markets. Headwind from supplier cost plays an important --
in an relevant headwind and this is why we have set up together with our colleagues from
procurement, from purchasing division an initiative where we discuss in detail with our top 100
suppliers what can be done in order to mitigate, to reduce those headwinds. And I'm confidentthat despite those headwinds, we have a very, very -- we are well on track to achieve our EBIT
margin corridor of 8% to 10%. And as I said, based on our today's situation, we are confident to
end up in the upper part. So that's included in this guidance.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. Thank you very much. All the best.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much. Yes. Thank you very much, Henning. And ladies and gentlemen, before we
conclude, I would also like to sincerely thank `Nicolas Peter, Finance. Nicolas, you have been with the BMW
Group for 32 years and our CFO since 2017. Next week, you will hand over your position to Walter
Mertl. This conference call was your last of a total of 19 quarterly conferences. In addition, you led
seven annual conferences. You are not only an absolute finance expert but a true strategist and
you have always guaranteed the BMW Group's profitability even in volatile times.
Yes, Nicolas, it was an honor and a pleasure to work with you. I would like to thank you personally
as well as on behalf of all our employees at the BMW Group.
And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have another guest on the line who would also
like to say a few words.
Tim, please go ahead. The line is open for you.
A - `Tim Abbott, Managing Director `
Yes. Thank you, Max. And Nicolas, I can -- well, a few of us discussed about it and I was picked to
summarize this. But I know that I speak on behalf of all of us on the call today that as you prepare
to embark on your next chapter, we really also wanted to take that moment to express our
sincere gratitude for the many years of collaboration, insights that you shared with us.
I can tell you it's going to be really hard to imagine an BMW call and event without you. Your
leadership and the ability in particular to express numbers to us has been instrumental in how the
capital markets sees BMW and our understanding of the business. And many of us have been
very fortunate to have had the opportunity to work closely with you over many years in many
different settings and countries. And we've always been not just impressed by your dedication
and professionalism, but what made it really special and this is something that makes also already
said with full-year results is that on a personal level, your sense of humor, your kindness have
made our interactions a real joy and I'm very grateful for the personal connection that we built
over the years. And now to let everyone else in on a little secret, you always say you have a very
strong cost focus. But clearly, you missed out on one very big opportunity. You've been publicly
praised just by Max, again, for you very strategic thinking of being a CFO, but you've also been
very passionate for marketing.
I remember you literally moving shares and tables and causing nightmare for our technicians
when you started to rearrange the furniture for the fireside chats we had.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Yes.
A - `Tim Abbott, Managing Director `Just sort of background, actually look a little bit nicer And I'd say you could have probably easily
taken over that responsibility on the Board level as well and saved on Pieter Nota's position for
brand and sales obviously just a bit of joke. But once again, that is proof for your professionalism
and passion and I can tell you there was never as much demand for a farewell dinner with my
fellow analysts as high as it is for you. We clearly all hope to stay in touch and look forward to
seeing the next steps. So thank you very much, Nicolas, for being a great discussion partner over
so many years from all of us.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Tim, a big thank you for your really very, very kind words and dear colleagues. Well, as you know, I
really appreciated the dialog with all of you, independent by the way how our results were.
Independent because for us to develop our strategy and as you know, the BMW Group. And we
are in the Dartmond, we spend a lot of time to think about our strategy to develop our long-term
plan and outside view is extremely relevant. Outside is extremely relevant and this is where you
definitely supported the development of our strategy. Because in our discussions and I know you
not only talk to us, you talk to all the other OEMs, you talk to the suppliers, you talk to the industry
and this is giving us a much broader perspective in which direction industry suppliers, other OEMs
are heading. And this is why I always personally answer, appreciated the dialog with all of you. I
hope to see the -- one or the other out of this group at other occasions, so stay healthy, follow
the BMW Group with a positive attitude and I'm very convinced that the Group is extremely well
on track. Thanks a lot.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director Corporate Affairs
Thank you. Thanks a lot, Nicolas, it was a pleasure. And now we clap our hands together.
All the best. Thank you very much for your attention and we see each other. Bye.