Q2 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to the BMW Group's
Telephone Conference for the Second Quarter Results. With us today are `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chairman
of the Board of Management of BMW AG, and for the first time, our new Chief Financial Officer,
`Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer who took over from Nicolas Peter in May. He has been with the BMW Group since
1998 and has held various management positions in finance and sales in Germany and the U.K.,
Walter, a very warm welcome.
First, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer will take you through our financial results. `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will then give you a
general business update for the BMW Group. Afterwards, we will have time for our Q&A session.
So we start first with `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. Walter, please go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Good afternoon to you all. I'm very pleased to be able to present the BMW Group's quarterly
results to you for the first time today. In the second quarter of 2023, the BMW Group delivered a
solid performance under difficult conditions. The Group EBITDA margin came in at 11.3% for the
quarter and 12.6% for the first half year. In the Automotive segment, we achieved an EBIT margin
of 9.2% in the second quarter and 10.6% for the half year.
We expect the positive business trend to continue in the second half of the year, particularly due
to the ongoing strength of the order bank and an expected improvement in the availability of
vehicles. As a result, we communicated an increase in our deliveries forecast for the 2023
financial year as part of an ad-hoc announcement on Tuesday. In addition, we raised the guidance
for the EBIT margin and return on capital employed in the Automotive segment as well as the
outlook for return on equity in the Financial Services segment.
I'd now like to take you through our financial figures for the second quarter in more detail. To do
so I've brought along a few slides with important key figures to explain the main developments
and relevant influencing factors. Let's start with the Group. Group earnings before tax for thequarter totaled EUR4.2 billion, the EBITDA margin came in at 11.3% in the second quarter and
12.6% for the first six months. This is clearly above our strategic target of 10%. Group pre-tax
earnings for the first half year decreased by just under EUR6.8 billion, however, we mustn't forget
that we had a one-off profit of EUR7.7 billion last year due to the fair market valuation of BBA
equity stake. Without this effect, and looking at the underlying operating result in steps Group
earnings were significantly higher year-on-year.
Now I'd like to look at the individual segments starting with the Automotive segment. Sales,
revenue and earnings development in the Automotive segment over the past six quarters are
depicted on the chart. In Q2 2023 vehicle sales were up 11.3% on the prior-year quarter over
626,000 units. Compared to the first quarter sales rose 6.4% and all regions contributed and we
were able to achieve a good balance. Deliveries through the end of June were 4.7% higher year-
on-year.
And the order bank for our vehicles remains high. As a result of our strong market position, we
expect a positive trend in deliveries in the second half of the year as well. We, therefore, now
forecast a solid increase in deliveries in 2023. Our BEV contributed to this development and we
see continued strong momentum. In Q2 results more than 88,000 all-electric vehicles. On top of
the figure of nearly 64,000 units sold in the first quarter. This adds up to around 153,000 BEVs
delivered in the first six months that is more than double our BEV sales for the same period of
last year, and represents 12.6% of total sales. The BEV share of overall sales already hit 14% in the
second quarter and will reach 50% for the full year.
The growth in sales and strong product mix increased revenues in the Automotive segment,
which after six months were up 10.9% on the previous year. Roughly half of this increase resulted
from the full consolidation of BBA revenues in 2023. Cars in 2022, the revenues of our BBA joint
venture were only included with the full consolidation from February 11 onwards. In the box on the
bottom right you can see how the operating result has developed in the Automotive segment. In
the second quarter EBIT totaled around EUR2.9 billion with an EBIT margin of 9.2%. Without
depreciation of BBA assets from the purchase price allocation, the margin was 10.2%. For the year
through the end of June, the EBIT margin was 10.6% and 7.7% without the depreciation of BBA
assets from the purchase price allocations.
I'd like to use the next slide to explain the operating result in the Automotive segment in more
detail. The bridge starts on the left with Q2 of last year with an EBIT of EUR2.5 billion and an EBIT
margin of 8.2%. From Q2 2022 to Q2 2023 we see a ahead of around EUR300 million from the
net balance of currency and raw material positions. This is mainly due to currency translation
effects from the development of the U.S. dollar, the Chinese renminbi and the Japanese yen.
Raw material prices remain at the same high level as a year ago. The data volumes the model
mix and strong pricing generated a tailwind of EUR0.5 billion. The mix is stable with solid volumes
in the upper segment. We are seeing positive impulses from the X5 and X1. While we are seeing
the first signs of normalization on the market, we remain focused on price discipline. Expenses for
research and development rose year-on-year to around EUR300 million mainly in connection with
investments in electrification, digitalization and automated driving.
The BMW Group's R&D expenditure is calculated by adjusting R&D expenses for capitalization
and scheduled depreciation. This forms the basis for the calculation of the R&D ratio according to
the German Commercial Code. The ratio for the year through the end of June came in at 4.6%.
And for the full year, we expect the ratio to be within our long-term target range of 4% to 5%.
Sales and administrative costs increased by around EUR100 million due to higher expenses for
personnel and digitalization projects. As for the item other cost changes we see burdens fromhigher material costs on the one hand, additionally, we have reassessed warranty provisions in
the second quarter and updated several parameters. This adjustment resulted in higher warranty
costs in Q2.
On the other hand, the development of licensing revenues had a positive effect in Q2. The full
consolidation of BBA also resulted in a positive reconciliation item. The negative impact of BBA
consolidation effects was EUR800 million higher in Q2 2022 than in Q2 2023. This included both
depreciation on inventory from the purchase price allocation and the elimination of interim profits
in connection with intra Group deliveries. Free cash flow in the Automotive segment totaled
EUR1.2 billion in the second quarter. The effect from working capital totaling EUR2.4 billion largely
resulted from the increase in inventory.
Lower demand for our vehicles and our order bank remain high. We ensure the availability of the
right products and thus fulfill the wishes of our customers while reducing waiting times. In doing
so, we will maintain our profitable growth in the second half of the year. The delta from capital
expenditure and depreciation improved free cash flow in the second quarter by EUR0.5 billion.
We continue to invest in the mobility of the future with our focus on electromobility, digitalization
and automated driving. The CapEx ratio came in at 5.1% for Q2 and 4.4% for the first half year. We
expect the ratio for the full year to be around 6%. Allocation to provisions increased free cash
flow by around EUR500 million in Q2 and through the first six months of the year, free cash flow
in the Automotive segment totaled EUR3.1 billion.
For the full year 2023, we expect the free cash flow of above EUR6 billion. In addition to higher
investments for the transformation to e-mobility, we are planning for increased inventories in
2023 compared to the end of 2022. We plan across the years to ensure the necessary we do
supply to the markets in order to fulfill profitable high customer demand.
Let's turn now to the Financial Services segment. Earnings in the segment result, not only from
new business, but largely from the entire portfolio of contracts. For this reason, I will focus
primarily on a six-month perspective for Financial Services. Higher interest rates resulted in
noticeably increased financing costs for consumers, the financial services sector also remains as
competitive as ever. Therefore, year-to-date June the number of new financing and leasing
contracts concluded with retail customers decreased by 10.6%. However, there was a noticable
positive trend in the second quarter since new contracts were at the same as in the previous
year's quarter. Higher prices and an improved product mix in the Automotive business that to an
increase in the average financing volume. As a result, the volume of new business in Q2 was 3.3%
higher than in the same quarter of the previous year.
Segment earnings before tax at the end of June amounted to EUR1.7 billion, a decrease of 14%
compared to the first half year of 2022. The main reasons for this are higher refinancing costs
and a smaller total portfolio compared with the previous year. On a positive note, income from
the resale of end-of-lease vehicles is still high. In addition, the risk situation in the segment
remains mostly stable. A credit loss ratio of spot 15% or better to say 15 basis points confirms the
high quality of our portfolio. We anticipate that the positive effects from the remarketing of lease
returns will remain stable through the end of this financial year. We, therefore, now expect a
return on equity in the range of 16% to 19% for the full year.
Let's move on to the Motorcycle segment. For the past 100 years, the BMW Motorrad brand has
offered an impressive range of attractive products. Its strong portfolio contributed to a successful
second quarter in 2023 with record figures in deliveries and EBIT margin. Sales reached almost
65,000 units, and were therefore 8% higher than the prior year quarter. The segment alsosignificantly increased its operating result compared to the second quarter of 2022, growing from
EUR127 million to EUR158 million. The EBIT margin was 16% for the quarter and 16.2% for the half
year.
This brings me to the overview of our guidance for financial year 2023. In the Automotive
segment, we now expect deliveries to show a solid increase over the previous year. As a result of
the positive volume development, we now expect the EBIT margin in the Automotive segment to
be within the range of 9% to 10.5%. Accordingly, we raised the target range for the segment
ROCE to between 18% to 22% in the Automotive segment. And we now forecast return on equity
in the Financial Services segment to be between 16% and 19% over the year.
All other guidance figures remain unchanged. Our forecast does not take into account a deep
recession in key sales markets. Furthermore, in our outlook, we do not expect further escalation
of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine or an expansion of the war.
Ladies and gentlemen, our industry is in the midst of a profound change. We are steering the
BMW Group profitably through this transformation with sound financials. In doing so, we always
focus on the long-term success of our Company. Our strategic focus is on electromobility,
digitalization and sustainability. To this end, we're making necessary investments in next-
generation technologies. We are maintaining our course in our current core business.
Operationally, we are strong and that secures our profitability.
We have the necessary latitude to invest in the future of the Company and, at the same time,
create value for our shareholders. The BMW Group has young, highly attractive product lineup on
the market with an array of new models to come over the next few years. With the Neue Klasse,
we will shape the future of mobility and secure our competitiveness and with it our financial
performance.
The BMW Group maintains the right balance between the three core elements of its business
success. First, a profitable core business. Second, our continuing growth trajectory. And third, a
clear path to lower CO2 emissions. This is how we can continue to create value for the BMW
Group. We deliver on our promises. That is our pledge and something I'm personally committed
to.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Walter. And now our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Oliver, please go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, ladies and gentlemen, in just a few weeks, the IAA Mobility will take place right on BMW
Group's doorstep here in Munich. Our Company and brands will be showcased as part of the
Open Space on Max-Joseph-Platz in the heart of the city and on the trade fair grounds. The IAA
Mobility will turn the whole city into a mobility hub, creating a platform for constructive dialogue
between all mobility providers and residents, stakeholders and guests from around the world.
Few business segments offer such a wide range of opportunities for innovations that can benefit
us in our everyday lives and at the same time, speed up progress in society.
We firmly believe this and have the facts to back it up. Our BMW Vision Vehicles are the
embodiment of this approach. They focus specifically on individual future topics and demonstrate
how we, at BMW, are tackling and implementing them. Take, for example, the BMW i Vision
Circular from 2021, which was systematically designed for closed-loop material cycles. A circulareconomy is our vision for the long-term, because this will make our Company less dependent on
valuable raw materials and therefore even more resilient.
Another example is the BMW i Vision Dee from the CES at the beginning of 2023 in Las Vegas. It
demonstrates the potential of what happens when hardware and software merge. The car
becomes a digital companion that learns and understands. We believe there are three key action
areas that will dominate the mobility of tomorrow first Electric, second digital, and third circular.
Each of these on its own is already a challenging and inherently complex task. Combining all the
aspects into a coherent overall concept is the ultimate challenge. This capability will determine
future competitiveness in our industry. With our next vision vehicle, we will open up new
dimensions in several areas, design, operating, concepts, efficiency and sustainability.
On September 2nd, the BMW Vision Neue Klasse will celebrate its world premier. The date was
chosen to honor a historical milestone. It will be almost 60 years to the day that BMW stake the
claim of Neue Klasse. Back then, the decision to launch a groundbreaking new product range
enabled BMW's success and kept it going over the following decades.
Now once again, we are turning vision into a reality. And I can promise you that the vision Neue
Klasse is close to standard production and will be on the road soon. Production of Neue Klasse
will get underway in 2025 at our new plant in Debrecen, Hungary followed by plant Munich in
2026. To mark the 20th anniversary of BMW Brilliance, we also announced local production of
Neue Klasse at our plant in Shenyang, China from 2026 onwards.
The Neue Klasse is a mega project that spans the entire Company. It's about nothing less than
the future of the BMW brand, the BMW Group and our portfolio. We're in intensive preparation
for this, and will continue to make significant investments in relevant future technologies over the
next few years. Internally, we're working together within new organizational structures, such as
our tech clusters, like the one for the electric drivetrain, for example. In this way, we're able to
address in parallel and in an integrated manner the mission critical issues of cost efficiency and
sustainability.
It is clear to us that with innovation drivers like Neue Klasse, we can grow as a Company, both
quantitatively and qualitatively, that is what counts. At BMW Group, everything has to get a little
better every day. That is what we aspire to. In late July, the new BMW 5 Series began rolling off
the assembly line at our plant Dingolfing. It will be released onto the markets towards the end of
the year.
As with the BMW 7 Series, 4 Series, X3 and X1 models, customer once again get to choose
between different drivetrain variants. With the all-electric i5, the BMW Group, will then, as
promised, offer at least 1 BEV model in every core segment. The i5 will help ensure that 40% of
all the vehicles we build at our biggest European plant will be fully electric from next year
onwards. In addition to the 5 Series the new BMW X2 is also in the starting blocks, including the
BEV variant, iX2. The 5 Series is receiving very positive feedback in the media and social media.
The 8th generation of our successful business sedan has been praised in particular for its tech
highlights, including the Level 2 hands-off system. The 5 Series is the first car in Germany to be
approved for partially automated driving at up to 100 kilometers per hour on motorways. This
extension means drivers can use the new BMW Highway Assist, which allows them to take their
hands off the wheel while driving.
Another feature has been added to our Highway Assist, the Active Lane Change Assistant with
so-called eye confirmation. This world's first allows the driver to change lanes as suggested byalways be a core element that our technological innovations must all contribute to. We test our
vehicles on the proving ground, not on our customers, and only release perfectly tested highly
advanced vehicles on the market.
Just last week, we opened a new testing site in the Czech Republic. It is by far our largest test
track. And where we are testing highly automated driving. Our Future Mobility Development
Center in Sokolov provides the ideal infrastructure and reproduces the road conditions of
countries from all over the world. The site covers over 600 hectares and consists of six tracks.
We're also focusing on production trials for fully automated parking. Together with our partner,
Valeo, we're developing solution for automated valet parking.
Compelling products that create value for customers as well as surprising innovations are the
foundation of our business success. There is a positive correlation here, strong products
generate strong demand across all drive technologies and all market regions. As you know, we,
at the BMW Group, are taking an open technology approach through the transformation of our
industry. We are concerned with both climate effectiveness and sustainable business success. For
us, there are no old or new technologies, only future-proof ones. For effective climate protection,
all types of drives must contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions.
This technology-open approach is a strength of the BMW Group, because after all, the world
regions and individual markets will continue to develop differently and at different speeds in the
coming years and decades. This applies to technologies and regulation through the expansion of
infrastructure for e-mobility and of course, to the wishes of customers, because different political
framework conditions lead to different customer behavior.
In the U.S., for example, the internal combustion engine remains relevant parallel to the ramp-up
of e-mobility, which we see above all states like California. In China, the government is promoting
e-mobility, but there is no question of banning the combustion engine. In Japan, hybrid drivetrain
is in demand and there's a high level of interest in hydrogen.
And thanks to our flexibility, we can react quickly to changing requirements in the market at any
time and in any situation. We can provide customers with adequate offers without sacrificing
market share. We continue to see this approach consistently and with conviction because the
holistic view of customer needs, environmental requirements and political guidelines is a unique
selling point of BMW. I see this as further proof that our strategy is working and bearing fruit.
This was also true in the first half of 2023. Despite a somewhat subdued global economy, the
BMW Group delivered more than 1.5 million vehicles to customers, an increase of 4.7% compared
to the previous year. BMW remains number one in the global premium segment with over 20% of
the market. All regions from the Americas and Europe to China and Asia are currently supporting
our growth.
The ramp-up of our all-electric models remains a clear priority. As you know, BEVs should account
for 15% of our global sales for the full year. Our BMW iX came first in the BEV ranking in the J.D.
Power APEAL Study, which rates customer satisfaction among new-vehicle owners in the U.S. And
one thing is clear, e-mobility needs suitable framework conditions.
As a founding partner of IONITY here in Europe, we have been promoting the development of a
comprehensive charging infrastructure since 2017. Now we're transferring our commitment to the
United States of America. Together with six other car manufacturers, the BMW Group,
establishing a new joint venture for fast-charging network in North America. Our goal is to build at
least 30,000 charging points in cities and on highways. The first stations will be opened as earlyas summer 2024. The network will be open to users of all brands and will support both CCS
connections and also NACS technology.
What is clear our products with all drive technologies are in demand and our plants around the
world are operating at high capacity. Our order book remains high. The world of the future is not
a zero-sum game, rather new technologies create new opportunities. But only companies that
pursue a broad innovation-based strategy across all technologies will be successful and continue
to gain additional market share. All our brands are all making their contribution. Rolls-Royce is
launching the all-electric Spectre later this year. BMW Motorrad in its anniversary is now pushing
ahead with electrification following the CE 04 with the eParkourer CE 02.
MINI is reinventing itself from the ground up with the new MINI family. The new Cooper Electric
with its spectacular interior and infotainment system will be unveiled before the end of the year.
We will also be building all-electric MINI vehicles in China going forward. In March, we introduced a
new customer-centric direct sales structure for the MINI brand in China. In Europe, we will be
launching our new sales model for direct customer access with MINI in 2024. The BMW brand will
follow in Europe in 2026.
Ladies and gentlemen, all of this shows how we are setting the BMW Group on a profitable
course for the future through quantitative and qualitative growth with both our products and
technologies. We are aiming for appropriate market penetration and intend to systematically
exploit our opportunities. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, now the line will shortly be open for
questions. The operator will first if you will some technical instructions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) Our first
question comes from `Daniel Rozhkov, Analyst, Bernstein Research from Bernstein Research.
Q - `Daniel Rozhkov, Analyst, Bernstein Research
Thanks very much for taking my questions. Maybe two short ones for Walter and then a more
strategic one for Oliver, please. On pricing in Q2, you're down about 5% year-on-year and
sequentially how does that reconcile with your statement on strong pricing? Could you just
dissect for us the pricing change kind of mix, pricing discounts? And how should we think about
the moving parts kind of for the rest of the year? And then on the working capital in the
automotive business, could you specify whether that's unfinished goods or finished goods, and
kind of -- can I read into that, that you're quite confident on your H1 as you are kind of priming the
channel that we shouldn't -- or that you're not expecting a significant headwind in H1 at this point
in time.
And then Oliver, you just outlined the different rollovers for the Neue Klasse, could you give us
some overview on the medium-term capacity outlook that kind of creates? This year, the
guidance brings you close to the 2.5 million cars you -- that were your previous peak and then
you're adding Shenyang, (inaudible) Spartanburg a little bit. When does that get you up to the 3
million units? And is that kind of still medium-term kind of number in your mind? I know you talked
about this kind of before we went into this with COVID situation in the past three years. So a littleA - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Daniel. We start with Walter and the first part of the question pricing and
inventories. Yes.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
Hi, Daniel, pleased to see you. Well, I think we raised nicely prices last year in 2022 already and
they are lasting even in '23. That's how it should be. That is our strong pricing position I referred
to. So across the world, I would say, we have actually still strong numbers on that. Eventually, you
do retail divider based on revenue, while we account our revenue based on wholesale, first of all.
And secondly, we have also in the revenue, some FX impacts, which is eventually driving your
calculation a bit downwards.
If we have a look for the individual markets, we are still strong, delivering our price levels,
especially year-on-year because of these price increases we did last year already lasting to today.
That's the first point. The mix is still strong, stable across the world. That is also quite good and
supporting our revenue side.
And with regards to your questions to inventories, we have a lot of finished goods in transit
currently supporting sales for the second half year. That is hardly any extra unfinished goods. The
massive majority of our inventory increase is based on finished goods and thereof, as I just
mentioned, it is in transit. So we fill the pipeline, especially in Q2 in order to get our lovely cost to
all of our customers.
Q - `Daniel Rozhkov, Analyst, Bernstein Research
Thank you very much, Walter. And now we come to Oliver medium-term capacity outlook, when 3
million units. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Daniel, as I said, the business we are in is not a zero-sum game. The more traditional
drivetrains like autos and diesel with the strong performance of the auto side, diesel being fairly
stable, is overall, together, including the black and hub is pretty stable. It's not shrinking. And all
the growth comes from the BEV segment. So that is a strong growth impetus we have here from
the BEV segment. And as you rightly mentioned, we are ramping up now with the Neue Klasse
with the sixth generation of our electric drive plus a completely new digital architecture. And we
also said that before 2030, the year doesn't play such a big role, but before 2030, we will have
50% of our global market share, will be fully electric.
And as you also mentioned, we are building up capacity, for example, here in Europe, in Hungary.
So there is a growth impetus from our product strategy, and there will be profitable growth, and
the volume will be a result. And whether a specific number is reached, let's see how our strategy
works. But if you calculate together, what I just said, you can come to a conclusion for your answer.
Yes. Thank you.
Q - `Daniel Rozhkov, Analyst, Bernstein Research
Thank you so much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much. Next quesiton, please.Operator
Our next question comes from `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas from Exane BNP Paribas.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Yes, good morning, and thank you for taking my question. My first one is around your free cash
flow guidance. It's where you've obviously trimmed that a bit to take into account higher
investment spending and higher inventories. So if we start with the investment spending, you
haven't actually adjusted the outlook for the R&D ratio or the CapEx ratio. So I'm guessing you
just want to be near the top end of the guidance range for those two metrics. But can you tell us
exactly where the additional spending is going because it's obviously something you've only
recently decided to do.
And then when it comes into about inventories being higher at year-end, is that a function of the
5 Series ramping in China? Is it to do with the direct distribution model of MINI or what's driving
that? Because some additional color there, too, would be helpful.
My second question is around China. When we think about how intense the local competition is
becoming, do you still feel sufficiently well set up with the existing architectures and then
obviously Neue Klasse from the middle of the decade so that you can comment thrive in that
market because you'll be aware that VW and Audi have obviously decided they need access to
local players via the architecture? So I would like to know whether that's something that would
also be an opportunity for you. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Okay. Thank you very much, Dorothee. We start with Walter and the free cash flow.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
Hello, Dorothee. Pleased to give you an answer. So of course, I understand the questions with
regards to free cash flow. And as I mentioned in my speech, we are not reducing at the end of
this year the inventory side as much as we did last year in 2022, but we will operate it on a slightly
higher level. So that means the pipeline won't be reduced as we reduced them in 2022. And why
is that? because we still have a fantastic order bank currently, which is lasting to the end of this
year.
We are still raising incoming orders, especially for the last few months. not just in the total, but
also on the EV side, which is great. And we are filling the pipeline in order to fulfill customers'
demands and wishes. And that is a profitable growth. So there is no topic that we would create
inventory just that we have inventory. No, we are selling this inventory profitably around the world.
So with regards to where it is. So on the 5 Series launch, of course, we are filling the pipeline, but
that was planned all the time. The MINI China topic is just ramping up from Q4 onwards. These
numbers are minor at year-end '23. That will rather kick in then in Q1 next year. No, there is no
impact at the end of this year with this new MINI China situation. So I think the core top for the
end of this year, and that's the reason why we rephrased our mentioning on the era of where we
are ending up with the free cash flow, and we said above EUR6 billion. We're not saying we're
striving for EUR6 billion, but we are EUR6 billion, that is key. And of course, we are optimizing all
things, but we want to optimize the full channel.The P&L and we raised the EBIT margins in our guidance. But we also want to organize our
inventory side in a slightly better mode than we did eventually end of this year. So that is really
great.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Yes, thank you very much, Walter. The second part of the question is about China and will be
answered by Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Dorothee. Hello from Munich. China, I think we have to look with a magnifying class. First of all,
there is no German automotive industry, there are big differences how they perform. We're quite
happy with China. We are growing this year 5% by the way, in more or less all segments, BEV or
not. So we are quite happy on the BEV side, which you mentioned, I think we have to look at two
different market segments. The one segment is below RMB350,000 and the one above
RMB350,000.
If you look below, yes, there is a lot of change coming on. In China, the electric cars are seen
unlike in Europe as seen something for the base segment. Cheaper cars have an electric
drivetrain. This is how it operates in China. That is not the case in the upper, specifically in the
premium market segment. There is a normal development like we see it in Europe or the United
States, if you like the complete market.
So you have to -- really have to look with a magnifying glass in these two different market
segments. And we -- the majority of our cars are in the upper markets segment above
RMB350,000. On the lower end with MINI, we already have a joint venture with Great Wall, where
we have a common platform for MINIs and for Great Wall. So to do a joint movement, joint
development with Chinese manufacturers is not a new idea. As a matter of fact, it's quite an old
idea. So to sum it up, we have a very broad product range in China with the iX3, which is locally
produced by the way, in China for the world. We have the i3 long version. We are launching the i5
long version. We have the iX5, the i7, the iX. So we have a whole range of products, which are
fully electric and we are very well set up for the market conditions. And to sum it up, it's a growing
market for us. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Dorothee. The next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah, good afternoon, and thank you for taking the question. My first one is on the phasing of the
margin piece. Obviously, the new midpoint of the guidance implies 8.9% automotive EBIT margin
for the second half, which is mechanically below the second quarter. At the same time, I
understand that some of the drivers of the sequential normalization versus Q1 were rather
temporary in nature. We've talked about several elements of this warranty cost, perhaps some
compensations in China in the distribution organization where my understanding is that they are
rather temporary in nature. So that I would expect once these don't repeat in the second half,
there is perhaps a bit of upside again compared to the second quarter. So if you could just clarifyare a bit more one-off in nature. And therefore, is it perhaps possible that you're more at the
very top end or at least in the top half of your new guidance range? That's the first question,
please.
Second is also on China. Is it possible to share the EBIT that has come from BBA and how that has
compared to the first quarter? Was that stable, was it down in the first quarter as well? And would
you be able to confirm the classic seasonality where for the last couple of years, the fourth
quarter was always much weaker in China? Do you expect the same thing to happen this year?
Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Henning. We will clarify your question. And Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, happy to do so. Hello, Henning. Good to speak to you. I think our EBIT margins is clearly
mathematically derived from because there's an 8% we would have interesting second half-year
margins ending up with an 8%. So math-wise, the 9% is a good one and the 10.5% is also a good
one. So just this range is the range we are heading for. And of course, we are looking forward to
always have a good margin, as I just mentioned.
So I think total incoming order in Q2, this is really supporting it across all regions. That is, I guess,
most relevant. Across the regions, we have positive incoming orders and those are stronger than
in Q1 '23, but also stronger than in Q2 '22. That is what drove us more or less to raise both
guidances volume as well as profit. But we cannot neglect profit-wise. Our headwinds from FX,
our higher expenses for suppliers due to inflation and supply chain, as you know, and also
logistics. So that is still we are dealing with. Our purchasing departments do a tremendous job on
this topic, but we shouldn't forget that we are also good and fair partners with our suppliers. So
we have to balance these topics in order to come to the best because we have long-term
contracts also. So that's the reason why we are not getting overexcited straightaway. We balance
this approach.
And with regards to China, BBA is still doing strongly performing. So that is quite good. The EBIT
margins, I will definitely not head straight away in this discussion, but it is consistent and stable,
and we also see there the demand, but we have wished for more. Of course, we would have
wished for more. We also discussed already whether things could have increased since April, but
we had this discussion, but we are still running on a good run level, we are not declining either on
volumes, not on profit.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Henning. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Michael Tyndall from HSBC from HSBC.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Michael Tyndall from HSBC `
Afternoon gentlemen and thanks for taking my question. Just a couple, if I may. Can we just go
back to pricing for a second? On the press call this morning, you talked about normalization, but
the message appears to be that pricing is strong. I'm trying to reconcile those two comments. Imean, can we talk about pricing in the context of how it looks in Q2 versus Q1 maybe and
whether or not there is a direction there?
And then the second question is just around the warranty issue that you flagged. I wonder if you
could just give us a bit more color on that so that we can understand if it's a one-off, if it relates
to cars that are still in production today, anything you can give around that would be great. And
then I'm going to be greedy and just ask one last one. If I look at the minority interest line and use
that as a proxy for China, maybe this is the wrong way to do it. But it seems like it's down quite
significantly sequentially. So I wonder if you can help me out, what am I missing in terms of
minority interest and the implications that has for China profit? Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Michael. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
Hello, Michael, pleased to talk to you. So I'm happy to give you the answers. Coming back to the
pricing again, Q2 versus Q1, as I mentioned before, the normalization from 2022, of course, that
is the point, and we see it also in some markets, no doubt. But as I mentioned also, we increased
some price levels quite nicely in '22 already lasting into this year. And we still see that we are
getting these prices into our books. So that is positive.
As I previously mentioned also, we see on the translation on the revenue side, translation
impacts, which are reducing the revenue per car, if you just do the easy math, I would say. But
contribution wise, this is not hitting our P&L. Revenue-wise, it's reducing it, but not on the
contribution side. I guess that is the relevance because of the FX impact, as I mentioned.
With regards to the BBA side, doing your math, we mustn't forget the spot rate we are
calculating. End of this quarter, we had rather an 80 to the euro level, and we had previously a
much nicer exchange rate. So a lot of that is impacting on FX spot rate. And with regards to the
warranty, I can just refer to what I mentioned before. And well, the warranty provision is related,
and I can say that to nonrecurring business impact and are related as usual to different
recollections. And these have been made out of an abundance of caution, as you do know us. So
as I said, we reassessed warranty provisions in the second quarter, and we updated several
parameters, and that ends up with this one-off.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Michael Tyndall from HSBC `
Great, thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Michael. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes. I have two questions. First of all, again, on the financial services and lease penetration rates.
We've seen obviously that lease penetration has been falling. And you've made comments that
you didn't want to get into price wars and some of the actions of some of the non-auto financecompanies, which were causing some disruption in the market. What's your view for the rest of
the year? And also, how will that impact on the eliminations as well as you look to the end of the
year as well?
My second question is on China. When you mentioned that you needed -- you had to look at it
with microscope. I thought you originally refer you were going to talk about the premium market
for electric cars, the -- we've seen that obviously very good sales of your 7 Series Max in China.
And if my number is correct, it's all about just over 5,000 of them in the first half of the year. If I
look at the i7, it's about 245 cars, particularly June was better. Can you talk about what the
attitude is of your clients towards the premium end for electric cars and what you do to just spur
that interest? Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Okay. We start with FS. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
Hello, Stephen. Good to talk to you, hope you're fine.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
So with regards to the financial services, yes, we recognize that the penetration has come down,
but that has changed, as Oliver mentioned, we're already on the same level in Q2 as Q2 previous
year. China is nicely down because of this bank commission war I would classify it, to be frank,
because they have to set the cash and the liquidity. And there's a big discussion. But month-on-
month, we are catching up in China, more or less a percent point penetration ratio. So we are
lifting it in Q2. It was already better. Is it in the middle of the 30% to 40%? No, not yet. Will it be
there end of this year? No, it won't. In China, but it will increase step-by-step more or less 1 point,
0.5% and 1% a month.
In the States, there's a total different situation. And the states we recognized as we did since end
of last year that local banks are stopping their engagement into the financial services business
because their costs seem to increase also nicely, so it is less of their interest. And by doing so
and recognizing, so our Financial Services business is catching up, coming to a nice penetration
ratios again, plus the ARA impact in Financial Services, also a nice business for us, because we
qualify for -- with our EV cars there, and that is running via the lease contracts because all leases
are qualified for the $7,500. So that is great.
This is also, of course, an impact. It's not just local banks stepping out or not doing the business
anymore, but also ARA. In EU, we also recognized raising penetration ratios, especially in Q2, it
wasn't up massively in Q1 already, but in Q2, it stepped back. So we also recognize for the rest of
the year that they will do proper business and rest of the world is quite stable.
So residual values are stable and the risk is stable, as I just mentioned. And then you had a
question on the fantastic elimination calculation. So we won't finish that math finally. But as long as
we have less financial services business on the penetration side, we will see positive impacts on
the elimination side because we don't have to add back the sales, which we have to take out. But
that will normalize as the penetration rate is coming step-by-step. And the biggest part is thatrather the U.S., U.K. and Germany than China because China was rather on the loan side, not on
residual values. So that is the point. Did I guess up, all right?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Yes, it's fine. So, Steven, the second part of your question was about China and the premium BEV
market. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Stephen, our strategy to conquer the BEV market is we start with the top end first. So we
started with the I760 and the I770 which bears the price tag of almost RMB1.9 million. So we
started with the top end. So the lower figures you see is not a surprise. But as we speak, we also
introduced the I750, which will be the top seller there. So the lower numbers are a consequence
of our strategy to -- with which the segment we start. And you will see over the year after the
I750 is introduced you will see growing figures.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Okay. Thank you very much. The next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, thank you for taking my questions as well. Just I've got a few left. Just a follow-up on this
order intake statement that you made, Walter. Because I think in Europe, there's really a build-to-
order behavior. I could imagine in the U.S., it's for you by now a little bit different because the
supply shortage was so intense. But could you maybe specify that to which extent you really have
got visibility in China and U.S. because usually you sell their cars from the lot? That's number one.
The number two is related more to other cost changes and within other cost changes, the supply
costs. You said you're a fair partner to suppliers. But we see now basically that the raw material
prices more or less turned around significantly. So sooner or later, the supply cost should become
again a tailwind. And I just want to understand if that is an item that could become a tailwind
already in the fourth quarter or we talk here really more about a more substantial tailwind then for
2024?
The last one is on FX because you mentioned renminbi. And of course, you have got a very high
exposure to China, we are seeing now the first negative impact from FX. Also here, more the
question is this magnitude that we have seen now in Q2, even though it's cut together with raw
materials, is that an impact we could also see in the next few quarters? And then, of course, if the
renminbi euro rate stays unchanged, that is an item that should get more negative, bigger
burden next year? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Okay, thank you very much, Horst. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, hello, Horst. Pleased to speak to you. Well, let's start on the order income side. We areelements, especially also in July, must have lift up in order income in July. That was really positive.
So with regards to the U.S., you mentioned, we still see a massive growth in the quarter, for
example, we presented to you just this morning 11.5% (technical difficulty) especially end of last
year as the story with the pipeline I just mentioned on the inventory side, we are filling this
pipeline.
With regards to the supply cost and the raw material side, we are on par, hence the hit in Q2
year-on-year. And yeah, we benefit from coming down raw material prices, but on the supply
chain, we are paying here there more for the material costs than we paid last year. So we have to
swing that one around. And I hope that the raw material pricing is still coming down even further
in order to get on par with the extra bills we are paying to the supplier side. So that is the point.
But year-on-year Q2 this is not favorable in total. And on the RMB side, the negative FX effect
here that is currently bigger on the translation side with regards to revenue. Luckily, we have a
good hedging strategy. That means contribution wise, we are so far quite fine. And all the rest.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Walter. So it's 3 o'clock, but we have time for two additional questions.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yes, thank you, good afternoon. Yes. A couple of questions asked already, but I was just
wondering if I can go back a little bit on the warranty issue, though. I completely understand what
you're saying that the tick-up we saw in Q2 is linked to recalls, but it seems like across the
industry, that issue is creeping up, that the cost of repair is higher because of inflation, including
labor inflation. And also the increasing complexity of the vehicles, whether it's EV powertrain or
sensors for ADAS tends to raise the cost of warranty. I look at your history, it has gone up and
down. It's further below the long-term average at BMW right now. Should we think there's
potentially a 50 to 100 basis point of headwind coming through as you reassess warranty just on
inflation as well as the growing complexity of the vehicles?
And then my second question maybe for Dr. Zipse is more, and I'm sorry to put you on the spot
like this, but you've mentioned again the power of choice, and I think you stuck to that view and
you've been proven right. But you've also said that Europe is the only region in the world that
really has a program to kill ICE by a certain date. Do you think in your position that this deadline of
2035 is realistic still? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Okay. So we start with the warranty with Walter and then `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
Hello, Philippe hope you're fine. So many thanks for the question. I'm happy to give you an
answer on that. Well, inflation is always a topic. We have a big discussion there already in Q4 last
year, this year-end. But of course, we're also doing these exercises now. Of course, I can see
your point, this inflation, material costs becoming more expensive than they have been years
ago. But we took account for these stops already, and we did now again.Of course, all the other relevant projects we are running in order to get material costs down or
better process in order to get the right components exchanged, this is all going on and our
engineers doing a good job there. So they are helping me and us in order to be on a good level.
But it's, of course, an ongoing increase. We will still have always this discussion with raising costs,
especially then on the warranty side. But it's not an ongoing assessment permanently going
forward, right? All the other topics is just a usually catch-up and assessment of technical actions.
And this is what we just placed it for.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Walter. Now about the EU, about the ICE ban.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think our opinion about what is going to happen is very stable, with current development of
framework conditions like charging infrastructure, like access to raw materials, and cost for raw
materials, and real customer behavior and so on and so forth. If that regulation keeps intact, the
industry will shrink specifically in the volume segments. We see a different behavior in the
premium segment where we are operating in, we see a rather strong development, and also in
terms of market size, this is just in Europe, just a small figure.
So if the developments continue, this industry will shrink. And of course, other manufacturers who
have better access to raw materials, who are more effective in operating in the basic segment
will also gain market share here. So we've said that all along, and I think that statement is still true
that this will have substantial effects on the industry structure.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Oliver. So we are coming to our last question, please.
Operator
Our final question will come from `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan from J.P. Morgan.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thank you, Max. Jose from JPMorgan, two questions, please. Walter, when I look at your positive
comments with regards to the order backlog, it looks like you could be hitting somewhere around
2.6 million units in 2023, maybe slightly below that. In the light of what you're seeing in the market
and the strong order backlog, do you think you can be in the light, you could be hitting 2.7 -- north
of 2.7 million units in 2024? So I was just trying to gauge a little bit what you're seeing in the
market, the order backlog and then the projection into next year, if that will be a reasonable
assumption.
And second Oliver, I'd love to understand a little bit, just back to the topic of China. When I look at
your monthly sales, electric vehicle sales in China, you seem to be doing very good job at
capturing market share, how do you think about the balance between providing more incentives
in the market to remain relevant in the electric vehicle seen in China, but at the same time,
capture that growth in the market. How do you balance that volume versus incentive equation in
the Chinese market? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
Thank you very much, Jose. So we start with Walter, and then, Oliver.A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer
The order bank calculation is quite nicely done. We appreciate your calculation and think about
positively, I think. But what we end up with, we shall see. So -- and with regards to '24, we speak
next year in March, what the final suggestion is all about and what our Company is thinking. So
that is too early. And I guess you understand this because of the dynamic environment. And if we
just think about last year, no one could have happened now 12 months ago, what happened in
China in Q4, even lasting into Q1 this year.
So I don't know what happens in six months or in 12 months. We have a plan, and we can react
nicely whenever it is necessary because we are absolutely convinced that we have strong
products. We have growth automatically as a result, because of these lovely competitive cars, so
we are not frightened about anything there. Otherwise, we wouldn't have lifted up our guidance,
I guess. So -- and as long as they are largely profitable, we know what to do, selling profitable
cars.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Jose, about the China market share. Of course, as I said before, we have to look with a
magnifying glass in the lower base segment and the premium segment, there is a very solid
brand-based premium market in China on the BEV side as well on the combustion engine side.
And we will not slip down into the base segment. We have never done that, and there is no
reason just because the biggest change in China is currently in the base segment that does not
motivate us to slip down into the base segment. And then we look in every segment to have
pricing, which leads us to good market share and also to profitable growth with the iX1 we do the
same thing, with the i3 we do the same thing, with the i5 and the combustion engine cars of the
5 Series and we do the same thing with all other cars.
So we have to look at it segment by segment. But one thing is super consistent in China, there is
a very robust premium market in the upper price segment. And that's where we are aiming at.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Investor Relations
So ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Thank you very much to Walter and Oliver. And
we wish you all from Munich, wonderful summertime, and see you latest at the ERR in September
in Munich. Thank you very much. Bye-bye.