Q1 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the UK and the U.S. Good afternoon to those in Central
Europe, and good evening to those listening in Asia. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to
AstraZeneca's Q1 2023 Results Webinar for Investors and Analysts. Before I hand over to
AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the safe harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca.
Although we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very
nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and may be influenced by
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Please, also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the
slide deck that accompanies this presentation.
There will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentations. Please use the raise a
hand feature to indicate you wish to ask a question at any time during the call.
And with that, I will now hand you over to the company.
`Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. It's `Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations here, Head of Investor
Relations at AstraZeneca, and I'm very pleased to welcome you to AstraZeneca's first quarter
2023 conference call. As usual, all materials presented are available on our website.
This slide contains our usual safe harbor statement, where we're making comments on our
performance using constant exchange rates or CER, core financial numbers, and other non-GAAP
measures. A non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliation is contained within the results announcement.
Numbers today are in millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated.
This slide shows our agenda for today's call. Following prepared remarks, we will open the line up
for questions. We will try and address as many questions as we can during the allotted time.
Although, I would ask that participants limit the number of questions you ask, to allow others a fair
chance to participate in the Q&A.
(Operator Instructions) With that, Pascal, over to you.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew -- Andy. Hello everyone. Please advance to Slide 5. We delivered total
revenue of $10.9 billion in the first quarter, which was stable compared to the prior year. This
performance is really quite remarkable when you consider that a 15% growth in revenue from our
ex-COVID medicines offset decline in revenue from our COVID-19 medicines of $1.5 billion in the
quarter.
Co-earnings per share grew 6%, compared to the first quarter of 2022. This growth reflects both
the decline in COVID-19 medicine revenues as well as important investments we're making in our
business to advance our pipeline and deliver on the full promise of our recently launched
medicines. Based on our strong fundamentals and outlook for the year, we are reiterating our
2023 guidance.
Please move to the next slide. Excluding our COVID-19 medicines and in addition to our broad
base of growth across these areas, we delivered strong growth across all regions. Importantly, in
the emerging markets, our ex-COVID-19 medicine grew by 22%.
In China, we have now seen three successive quarters of growth as we continue to launch
innovative medicines and growth outpaces, anticipated declines in some of our older medicines.
This growth is a clear reflection of the value of our broad portfolio and our sustained focus on
emerging markets over time. Our business is highly resilient with pipeline momentum
accelerating as a result of both internal and external innovation.
Please move to Slide 7. One illustration of this momentum is our focus on initiating 30 Phase 3
trials in 2023. I'm pleased to announce we have already dosed patients in six new Phase 3 trials,
since the start of the year. This includes two trials of Dato-DXd in combination with IO medicines,reflecting our confidence in the promise of these regimens to enhance outcomes for patients
with lung cancer.
Given that inflammatory cells play a key in the eosinophilic oesophagitis and with T-SLP being at
the top of the inflammatory cascade, we've initiated the crossing trial for Tezspire, our anti-T-SLP
antibody in EoE.
Supernova is a trial of our novel antibody, AZD3152, for the prophylactic treatment of COVID-19
with potential approval in the second half of this year. Here our aim is to protect people who
don't mount an effective immune response to vaccination, which represents about 2%, of the
population. CAMBRIA-1 is our first trial investigating camizestrant, our next-generation oral SERD,
in the adjuvant breast cancer setting where there is a significant opportunity to improve long-
term outcomes.
Finally, we initiated a trial of Ultomiris for the prevention of acute kidney injury associated with
cardiac surgery. This represents an area of high unmet need with currently no approved
therapies. Acute kidney injury can occur in up to 20% of patients undergoing cardiac surgery, but
the risk increases to over 60% in patients with chronic kidney disease.
The Artemis trial focuses on those patients with kidney ischemia, where complement plays a key
role. While we plan to provide an update each quarter on our new Phase III trial stats, we expect a
majority to those in the second half of this year.
Now please turn to Slide 8, and Aradhana can take you through our financial highlights in the
quarter, as well as provide some insights into how we are fully embracing artificial intelligence and
machine learning across our business.
Over to you, Aradhana.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal, and good afternoon, everyone. As usual, I will start with our reported P&L.
Please turn to Slide 9. Total revenue in the first quarter was stable, compared to the prior year.
Recall that Q1 of last year benefited from around $1.6 billion in COVID-19 medicine sales, which
have declined as anticipated by 89% to $155 million. Excluding COVID-19 medicines, total revenue
increased by 15% in the first quarter.
In an effort to increase transparency, starting in Q1, we will break out recurrent revenues from
partnered products into separate line called Alliance revenue. This line will include royalties and
profit shares from partnered medicines, such as Enhertu and Tezspire, in geographies where our
partner books product sales.
Upfront and milestone payments will continue to be reported as collaboration revenue. Hopefully,
this results in improved visibility to revenue from partnered medicines.
Finally, we saw some relatively large core adjustments last year as a result of the unwind of the
Alexion fair value inventory uplift. However, we only had $36 million of this in the quarter, and it will
be minimal in the future.
Please turn to the next slide, which depicts our core P&L. Our core gross margin in the first
quarter was 83.3%, an increase of four percentage points compared to the prior period, which
was negatively impacted by higher COVID-19 sales. Q1 2023 core gross margin also benefited
from product mix and lower production costs from prior quarters.On a full-year basis, we still anticipate a slight improvement in gross margins, compared to pre-
pandemic levels. This is driven by lower COVID-19 revenue, higher oncology and Alexion sales,
but impacted by increasing contribution from partnered medicines, and higher costs relating to
inflation.
In the second half of the year, we expect the usual seasonal impact from FluMist, as well as
incremental cost relating to the production of our new COVID-19 antibody, AZD3152.
Core operating expenses increased by 9% in the quarter, however, this was partly due to lower
cost in the prior-year period. As Pascal mentioned, we started six new trials in year-to-date, and
we anticipated starting 30 during the full year, which will affect quarterly R&D cost phasing, with
R&D expenses in subsequent quarters expected to be higher than in Q1.
On the SG&A side, we continue to invest behind our launches, including new indications for Imfinzi
and in HER2, and our respiratory portfolio.
On a full-year basis, we still expect core operating expenses to increase by low to mid-single-
digit percentage, but there will be quarter-on-quarter variability. Other operating income of $379
million in the quarter includes a gain from the divestment of Pulmicort Flexhaler in the U.S. on top
of some background level of other operating income from historical divestments. Taking these
elements together, core EPS increased by 6% at constant exchange rate to $1.92 in the quarter.
Earlier this month, we announced the simplification of the agreement with Sobi and Sanofi on
nirsevimab. This will simplify our P&L and result in us recognizing $718 million of other operating
income in the second quarter, following the release of the liability on our balance sheet, much of
which had been expensed through our core P&L.
Now please turn to Slide 11. Our cash flow from operating activities of $3.1 billion was stable in the
quarter despite the significant decline in COVID-19 revenue. We continue to work on improving
cash conversion and have already made significant progress on that journey.
Net debt increased by $2.1 billion to $25.1 billion, driven by the second interim dividend payment
of around $3 billion, and approximately $2 billion in deal payments including a second payment of
around $900 million to Acerta shareholders and roughly $800 million for the recent CinCor
acquisition.
For the full year, we still expect deal payments tied to prior business development transactions to
be at a similar level as last year. Our current net debt to EBITDA ratio is 2.3x or 1.9 if adjusting for
the Alexion fair value uplift.
As Pascal stated earlier, our guidance for the full year remains unchanged. We continue to
anticipate total revenue excluding COVID-19 to increase by low double-digit percentage.
Including COVID-19 medicines, we anticipate total revenue to increase by low-to-mid single-digit
percentage. Core EPS is anticipated to increase by high-single digit to low-double digit
percentage. Based on average March FX rates, we anticipate a low single-digit adverse FX
impact on both total revenue and core EPS.
Please turn to Slide 12. As a company that thrives on innovation, we are constantly evolving our
ways of working and have embedded AI broadly across the organization. Over the course of this
year, we plan to update you with some real-world examples each quarter on how this has helped
us to improve productivity and drive innovation.This will help you to understand why we're making significant investments in this area. First, we'll
focus on R&D, where we have over 400 data scientists employed and over 100 active AI projects
underway. Later in his prepared remark, many will provide examples of AI and drug discovery.
With that, please turn to Slide 13, and I will hand over to Dave, to take you through our oncology
business performance.
Thank you, Aradhana. Slide 14, please. Oncology delivered solid performance in the first quarter
with total revenues of over $4 billion, up 19% versus 2022. We saw double-digit product sales
growth across the U.S., Europe, emerging markets, and established rest of world, driven by new
indication launches and continued demand generation.
Now turning to our individual medicines, Tagrisso global revenues grew by 15% in the quarter. In
the U.S., we saw sustained demand in both ADAURA and FLAURA, coupled with improved
duration of therapy in FLAURA.
In Europe, growth of 8% was offset by pricing clawbacks in certain markets. Tagrisso performance
in China was strong, recovering as expected following fourth quarter hospital budget
management dynamics, resulting in first quarter growth of 17% in emerging markets.
Lynparza, the leading PARP inhibitor globally, delivered first quarter product sales growth of 10%.
The U.S. was impacted by destocking, following an inventory build in the fourth quarter in
anticipation of the PROpel approval. While there are opportunities for continued demand
expansion in the U.S., these growth areas are more challenging.
Specifically, we continue to work on improving HRD testing rates in ovarian, as well as BRCA
testing and prescribing rates in hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Outside the U.S., we're
encouraged by Lynparza growth in Europe of 18%, including strong launch trajectory for PROpel in
Germany.
Turning now to Imfinzi. Total revenues, inclusive of Imjudo, grew an impressive 56%, fueled by
new launches. This performance was driven by 66% growth in the U.S. with strong uptake across
new indications, particularly Topaz-1 and HIMALAYA, and in Europe and Japan, early launch
momentum from Topaz-1 has been encouraging.
Calquence total revenues increased 31% year-on-year, supported by ex-U.S. demand growth. As
expected, U.S. performance in the first quarter was impacted by destocking, following maleate
tablet approval in the third quarter of last year.
Looking at new starts in TRX share in the frontline CLL setting, Calquence remains the clear
standard of care in the face of increasing class competition. That said, we do see some impact
on new share in both the relapse refractory and frontline settings.
Turning now to HER2, total revenue was up 203% in the first quarter to $257 million. In the U.S., in
HER2 new patient share is now approximately 50% across both second-line HER2-positive and
hormone receptor positive HER2 low, post-chemo metastatic breast cancer, reflecting the
strength of our underlying clinical data. Across European markets, we're seeing rapid uptake in
HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.
Finally, we achieved exciting regulatory milestones in the quarter, including first approvals in China
for Calquence and mantle cell lymphoma, and in HER2 -- second-line HER2-positive metastatic
breast cancer.Now please turn to Slide 15. In the past, we've made clear our ambition to transform patient
outcomes in breast cancer, and you've seen our teams deliver towards achieving that goal. Now
for the first time, we're laying out our ambition in lung cancer, and by the year 2030, we are
aiming for at least half of all lung cancer patients to be eligible for an AstraZeneca medicine.
While this is a high bar, we've built a clear roadmap to deliver on this ambition. Focusing first in
late-stage non-small cell lung cancer, we have a broad portfolio of life cycle management and
novel programs, and our success depends on our ability to deliver innovative medicines in both
IO-sensitive and biomarker-driven tumor settings.
Tagrisso is the established standard of care in adjuvant and frontline EGFR-mutated non-small cell
lung cancer, and we're looking to solidify its position as the backbone TKI therapy in EGFR-
mutated space through additional combination trials.
We are accelerating development of our next-wave IO assets, leveraging experience within
Imfinzi across multiple tumor types, and continuing to advance our ADC portfolio within HER2 and
HER2-expressing tumors and our TROP2-targeted ADC Dato-Dx.
Furthermore, we have recently disclosed multiple registrational trials for both novel combination
regimens and bispecifics. Underpinning this roadmap is also continued and important investment
behind new technologies, including screening and testing tools as well as innovative platforms,
such as cell therapies. We're excited about the year ahead with important lung cancer data to
support achievement of our 2030 ambition.
And with that, please move to the next slide and I'll transition to Susan to cover key R&D
highlights.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. Continuing on the theme of lung cancer, it's been an exciting quarter for early-
stage disease, during which we've shared details of two key datasets that further validate the
importance of moving lung cancer diagnosis and treatment to earlier stages of disease, where
patients have the highest potential for cure.
First, at AACR, we shared the updated data from the AEGEAN trial. This tested the impact of
adding Imfinzi to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and then continuing as adjuvant monotherapy. We'd
already reported encouraging pathologic complete response data for this trial in June last year.
At AACR, we reported the planned interim analysis of event-free survival, which demonstrated
that patients treated with the Imfinzi-based regimen had a 32% reduction in the risk of
recurrence, progression events, or death versus chemotherapy alone.
We also shared updated pathologic complete response data showing a four-fold increase with
the addition of Imfinzi, compared to chemotherapy alone. We look forward to discussing these
data with global regulatory authorities, with the goal of providing this important new treatment
option to patients.
Second, last month, we shared positive high-level results from the ADAURA Phase III trial,
reporting that Tagrisso showed a strong overall survival benefit compared to placebo in the
adjuvant treatment of patients with EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer. This follows the
encouraging data we presented at ESMO last year with continued benefits for Tagrisso in terms
of disease-free survival and immediate disease-free survival of nearly five-and-a-half years.The overall survival data, which we are delighted to have been selected for an ASCO plenary, are
the first for a Phase 3, to demonstrate survival benefit in this adjuvant setting. And they add to
the extensive body of evidence generated for Tagrisso, which has now shown a statistically
significant and clinically meaningful OS benefit in both the early adjuvant and late-stage
metastatic settings, reinforcing it's standard of care position across lines.
We've also had positive readouts from the DUO-O trial of Lynparza plus Imfinzi, added to
chemotherapy and bevacizumab in patients with newly diagnosed ovarian cancer without a BRCA
mutation, as well as a clinically meaningful data for Enhertu across multiple HER2-expressing
tumor types from the DESTINY-PanTumor02 trial. Both these data sets will be showcased at
ASCO this year.
Please turn to Slide 17. In addition, to AEGEAN, AACR provided an opportunity for us to share data
from across our diverse, industry-leading oncology portfolio, including several highlights from our
early-stage pipeline.
We shared the first clinical data from the armoured GPC3 CAR-T therapy, C-CAR031, in patients
with advanced hepatocellular cancer, as well as preclinical data for our armoured STEAP2 CAR-T,
AZD0754, in prostate cancer models. Both these therapies have been designed using our
dominant negative transforming growth factor beta receptor armouring, which aims to resist the
immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and enhance the potential effectiveness of CAR-T
in solid tumors.
We're encouraged by three out of six deep and verbal responses at the second dose level, and
the persistence of CAR-T copies out to at least 149 days, which is substantially more than has
been observed with any other GPC3 CAR-T products.
We also presented preclinical data from our in-house ADC platform. Our ADCs have been
designed to maximize therapeutic index with a proprietary linker payload. The platform has a
novel potent topoisomerase 1 inhibitor, which provides bystander tumor kill activity, and a linker,
designed to provide a high degree of stability in the peripheral circulation with minimal free
payload exposure.
AZD9592, a bispecific ADC targeting EGFR unmet, and AZD8205, targeting B7H4 are already in
Phase I; and AZD5335 targeting folate receptor alpha will enter the clinic later this year.
Finally, we provided our first disclosure for the novel lead epigenetics molecule, AZ PRMT5
inhibitor, which is a potent MTAP-selective PRMT5 inhibitor with anti-tumor activity in MTAP-
deleted tumors. Loss of the MTAP gene occurs across approximately 15% of all tumors, and this
provides an opportunity to selectively target these tumors and spare healthy tissue. This program
will enter Phase 1 shortly.
And with this, please advance to the next slide. And I'll hand over to Ruud to cover
BioPharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you, Susan. Please turn to Slide 19. Total revenue from BioPharmaceuticals was $4.5 billion
in the quarter, with CVRM growing 22% and R&I growing 8%. Revenues from our COVID-19
medicines declined to $155 million, due to the completion of our vaccine contracts last year and
lower (Inaudible) sales in the United States and Europe.
Farxiga continued to be the main driver in global CVRM, growing 39% to $1.3 billion, driven byworth noting that Farxiga enjoyed some growth in the benefits in quarter one that may not recur
in future quarters.
We also saw over 60% growth for roxadustat in China and for Lokelma globally. Lokelma is now
available in 27 markets, having achieved potassium binder market share leadership in eight of
these markets.
R&I's growth to $1.6 billion was helped by a recovery of demand for inhaled products in China as
lockdown restrictions eased, and also strong growth in Europe and other emerging markets.
Please turn to Slide 20. Over the last two years, the downward trends in Symbicort, Pulmicort, and
other older brands has been more than offset by growth from Fasenra, Tezspire, Saphnelo, and
Breztri. These combined brands grew at 46% in quarter one and they now make up over one-
third of R&I revenue.
Biologics are a fast-growing class of medicines and only a fifth of patients who are eligible for
biologic medicine are currently receiving one. Fasenra continues to sustain leadership in total
market share in severe eosinophilic asthma and Tezspire's launch momentum continues at a
rapid pace. In quarter one, we saw continued growth in the U.S. and rapid uptake elsewhere.
In Japan, Tezspire has already captured new-to-brand, absolute leadership, just a few months
after launch. Tezspire is now available in six markets, and the auto-injector was approved in the
U.S. and the EU at the start of the year.
Our inhaled portfolio also contains innovative medicines that have a long life cycle ahead.
Next year, Airsupra will add a fifth medicine to our newly launched brands; and in quarter one,
Breztri grew 73%. Breztri is benefiting from increased awareness of triple therapy, which was
boosted by the 2023 report for the global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease. The
report advocated a short-term path to triple fixed-dose therapies in order to reduce mortality.
In recent quarters, Breztri has accelerated new patient share gains in the U.S. and Europe and
retained its leadership position in China with a 70% share of new-to-brand prescriptions. This
quarter, we also announced a new production site in Qingdao, which will support Breztri's
continuous growth in China, which is home to 100 million patients with COPD.
With that, I will now hand over to Mene, who will discuss the development programs that will drive
future innovation of our biopharmaceuticals portfolio.
`Menelas Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Thank you, Ruud. And please turn to Slide 21. This slide outlines our assets across asthma and
COPD. And as Ruud highlighted, we have a strong legacy in respiratory medicine. With our broad
portfolio, we're committed to continued respiratory leadership.
Here we highlight the breadth of our commercial portfolio and illustrate our focus on emerging
science involving immune mechanisms, lung damage and cell repair processes.
Our on-market inhaled medicines are already considered front-line standard therapies and we're
also developing a number of novel add-on oral, inhaled and biologic therapies for patients whose
diseases are not adequately controlled by existing medicines.
Our IL-33 targeted antibody, tozorakimab offers a differentiated mechanism of action. The
reduced form of IL-33 regulates the ST2 pathway responsible for inflammatory drive, whilst theoxidized form of IL-33 regulates the RAGE pathway responsible for epithelial dysfunction and
mucus production. And tozorakimab inhibits both signaling pathways with the potential to reverse
key pathogenic features of COPD.
Tezspire, our anti-TSLP remains the first and only biologic in asthma, approved without biomarker
or phenotype. TSLP is an epithelial cytokine that sits at the top of multiple inflammatory cascades
and is critical in the initiation and persistence of multiple drivers of airway inflammation.
We also have several other early stage assets in our pipeline, including inhaled TSLP and inhaled
JAK, which should enter Phase 2 in the second half of this year, based on solid proof of
mechanism data. We're confident this rich pipeline will provide the right building blocks to
continue to drive leadership in respiratory diseases over the long term.
Please turn to the next slide. At AAN, we presented 66 weeks data for (Inaudible) innate TR
polyneuropathy, building on the 35 week data presented last year at ISA. We saw a statistically
significant and clinically meaningful change from baseline versus an external placebo on the co-
primary endpoints of reduction of transthyretin, and on the modified neuropathy impairment
score plus 7 as well as the Norfolk quality of life questionnaire.
It was really encouraging to see the continued improvement on the quality of life questionnaire,
which is designed to capture and quantify the impact of neuropathy on the lives of patients.
ATTR-PN patients have identified sensory deficits and autoimmune GI symptoms as the most
difficult symptoms to manage, and thus continued and sustained improvement in the quality-of-
life questionnaire, is an important indication of clinical benefit for these patients.
We look forward to sharing this data with regulators globally as we seek approval for (Inaudible).
At ECCMID, we also provided new data on AZD3152, our COVID-19 long-acting antibody. In vitro
studies demonstrated that AZD3152 neutralizes all COVID-19 variants, including Arcturus, the
latest variant of concern. And we hope to make AZD3152 available as a new prophylactic
treatment in the second half of this year.
Please turn to Slide 23. As Aradhana discussed earlier, artificial intelligence is embedded across
our organization, and within R&D we're using AI across all our therapy areas to discover new
medicines more efficiently.
Understanding the biology of disease is critical to identifying the right drug targets and pathways,
is one of the most important decisions we make in drug discovery. We're applying AI and machine
learning to build biomedical knowledge graphs across all our disease areas, and these visual
representations depict relationships between vast data sets derived both within and external to
AstraZeneca.
Our scientists use these knowledge graphs to glean novel insights into disease biology, as well as
new pathways and targets to prosecute. AI-enabled processes are also transforming the
discovery of small and large molecule leads.
Within small molecule drug discovery, we use proprietary AI-enabled platforms to generate small
molecules twice as fast as our traditional discovery processes. These algorithms use both
generative models and novel scoring functions.
In antibody discovery, we use AI-enabled deep screening programs to identify potential lead
antibodies in as little as three days, compared to traditional methods, which take several months.
The scale and pace with which these new AI and machine learning innovations can acceleratedrug discovery is really exciting, and we look forward to providing additional examples of AI-
driven innovation over the balance of the year.
Please move to the next slide, and I will now hand over to Marc to cover rare diseases.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `
Thank you, Mene. Please move to Slide 25. In the first quarter, rare disease total revenues grew
14%, contributing $1.9 billion. The strong performance in the quarter was primarily driven by
patient demand as well as some benefit from certain tender market orders.
Ultomiris grew 61% in the quarter, reflecting successful and accelerated conversion from Soliris
across shared indications. In myasthenia gravis, we saw an increased number of complement-
naive patients treated with Ultomiris, advancing our ambition to expand Ultomiris use into a
broader, but strong population, which we estimate to be 2x to 3x larger than the addressable
Soliris patient population.
Consequently, Soliris declined 13% in the quarter as conversion accelerated. However, this decline
was partially offset by growth in NMO and tender market order timing in certain emerging
markets. Though we are excited by this strong performance in the quarter, I want to mention a
couple of key dynamics.
First, as we continue to execute a conversion strategy from Soliris to Ultomiris, Ultomiris annual
treatment cost is approximately one-third lower than Soliris. Furthermore, additional indication
from Ultomiris require negotiation in some legislations as the eligible patient population expands.
Therefore, as we move from ultra-rare, such as PNH to rare population, such as myasthenia
gravis, we anticipate increased pricing pressure.
We fully expect the patient volume growth to offset the impact of this negotiation, although they
present pricing headwinds in the near term. We remain confident in our C5 franchise, conversion
and expansion strategies, and for the full year, we expect Ultomiris revenue to be broadly in line
with that of Soliris. Beyond the complement, Strensiq grew 28% and Koselugo grew over 2x in the
first quarter, driven by strengths of patient demand and geographic expansion.
Please move to next slide. At the American Academy of Neurology Congress earlier this week,
we presented data across myasthenia gravis, NMO, and dermatomyositis. Notably, we presented
real-world data, highlighting the clinical benefit of C5 inhibition, evaluating the change in
concomitant therapies for patients receiving Soliris.
In practice, HCPs initially treat patients with high-dose oral corticosteroids to manage symptoms,
and then when symptoms are under control, they evaluate the use of additional therapies to
sustain symptom control and ultimately, look to minimize steroid usage.
At one year treatment with Soliris, 76% of patients reduced their high-dose steroid use, further
demonstrating the clinical benefit of C5 inhibition on patient outcomes. We hope to show a
similar reduction in our Ultomiris registry, where analysis is ongoing.
We have highlighted new Phase I data in our third-generation C5 inhibitor, Gefurulimab, a novel
bispecific AVGN antibody. Its low-molecule weight enables subcutaneous self-administration,
binding to albumin to extend half-life, which allows for convenient weekly dosing. The results
demonstrated Gefurulimab favorable safety and tolerability profile as well as its ability to achieve
near-complete terminal complement inhibition. This data further supports ongoing direct to
Phase 3 PREVAIL trial in adult myasthenia gravis.Separately, following discussion with regulatory authorities, I am disappointed to announce the
termination of our Alexion 1840 Wilson Disease Program despite positive results from the Phase
3 focused trial announced in 2021. Data from the program will be presented at an upcoming
medical congress.
Please turn to next slide. In addition to (Inaudible) in C5, I also wanted to highlight our
complement Factor D inhibitor. Factor D is a regulator of the alternative pathway upstream of C5.
The selective inhibition of the alternative pathway allows the other pathways to remain intact to
fight infection and this may provide a safety advantage.
We believe that Factor D is the most tractable target, given its stable circulating concentration in
the plasma. With three differentiated assets, our Factor D portfolio has the potential to unlock
value in several indications including PNH, myasthenia gravis, geographic atrophy, and renal
indications.
Our most clinically advanced is danicopan, which most recently was submitted for regulatory
approval in PNH patients, with clinically significant extravascular hemolysis. We have also seen
positive Phase II from vemircopan as a monotherapy in PNH and Alexion 2080, the third [ph] of
Factor D, recently dosed in Phase 1. We look forward to providing further updates on our Factor D
portfolio and our broader pipeline in future quarters.
Please turn to Slide 29, and I will hand the call back to Pascal, for closing remarks.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. So, if we move to the next slide, please. So for the remainder of 2023, we have
a number of important trial readouts that have the potential to redefine care for patients. This
includes the first Phase 3 trial of Dato-DXd in lung cancer. And I'm pleased to tell you that we now
expect the results from a second trial of Dato-DXd, TROPION-Breast01, in the second half of this
year.
Finally, we are making excellent progress towards our medium and long-term strategy ambitions
and I'm thrilled to announce we were the top ranked pharmaceutical company on the Financial
Times 2023, Europe Climate Leaders list. Looking ahead, this is shaping up to be another exciting
year for our company and I look forward to updating you on our progress.
With that, I'll hand the call back to Andy.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pascal.
We'll now move to the Q&A with all of our executive team members participating, shown here.
(Operator instructions)
With that, let's move to the first question.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks. The first question is -- thanks Andy, from Sachin at BOA. Sachin, go ahead.
Q - Analyst
Thanks, everyone. Two questions, please. First topic is DATO, DXD, two-part. TL02 and TL04 are
due at ASCO. So I'm wondering, Susan, if you could just give us some color on what we should be
looking for. Are we expecting PFS data? And is it fair to be comparing that to keynote 189 as we
think about confidence into 07 and 08?
And then just on the breast data, you mentioned, Pascal, TB01. You've also got TBO2 in TNBC
next year. So, I wonder if Dave could just frame for us how he thinks about the commercial
opportunity of these two indications that haven't really been discussed much by investors. Feels
to us like they could be 2 billion to 3 billion opportunity combined. Any thoughts there?
And then a quick follow on for Dave on Calquence. Just wondering if you could give a bit more
detail on the Beijing competition you're seeing. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Thanks very much, Sachin. So, Susan, do you want to take the first one or -- should we,
yes. Yes, and then David, you'll take the other one.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, sure. So, obviously, with the TL02, we're going to have updated data with the combination of
Dato-Dxd with immuno-oncology agents. And again, with TL04, we have data in combination with
chemotherapy plus other agents. So, I think you can look at durable response rate. It's always
difficult to look at end-points like progression-free survival in single-arm studies, because there
are differences in patient populations that are crude versus other things that are out there. But
that's what I suggest you look for.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Great. So on, Sachin, your first question around the opportunity with Dato in breast cancer. Maybe
the first thing that I would just point out here, and we talked about this in the context of DESTINY-
Breast04 and DESTINY-Breast06, a large number of breast cancer patients in the metastatic
setting, hormone receptor positive and triple negative, are treated today with systemic
chemotherapy.
And we think we've got one of the leading antibody drug conjugate portfolios between Enhertu
and Dato to be able to hopefully replace much of that chemotherapy use today with antibody
drug conjugates. And so, there's certainly a multi-blockbuster opportunity in breast cancer to
replace that systemic chemotherapy.
Now exactly how the puzzle pieces and the overlap between 04, 06, TROPION-Breast01. I think,
we need to see some of the data and how that plays out. But I'd encourage you to think about,
and that's the reason we talk about kind of breast cancer as a portfolio. I talked about lung cancer
as a portfolio today. Because I think, that we've got an opportunity across those assets to be able
to really create very good commercial opportunity by replacing systemic chemo. Maybe the last,
just kind of point here of note on TB-01.
So that study is in a post-endocrine therapy and post-first systemic therapy. That's an earlier line
than what we've seen out of TROPiCS-02. So I think that that gives you a sense competitively too,
that it's well positioned competitively, depending on the data.On Calquence, and what we've been seeing there, we continue to win the overwhelming
majority of new starts in the front line CLL setting. This is really our key area of promotional focus.
In terms of market share, we are seeing impact from zanu as a new entrant.
We've seen the majority of their impact come in the relapse refractory setting. We have seen
some impact come in the frontline setting. Some of their impact in the frontline setting has come
at the expense of Calquence, though the majority of it has come at the expense of brutinib, the
first generation BTKi.
I would also say that, within this context, we certainly expect the BTKi market to be competitive
going forward. I'm quite confident that our team is very well-prepared. We have important data
coming out at ASCO on a matched analysis, indirect comparison between ASCEND and ALPINE
that we're hearing early, positive response from investigators on, and we'll continue to work hard
to keep Calquence as the clear standard of care within the frontline setting.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. `James Gordon, JP Morgan at JPM. Go ahead, James.
Q - `James Gordon, JP Morgan `
Hello, `James Gordon, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Thanks for taking the questions. Two, please. One about
the C5 franchise and also competition. So Novartis presented their detailed Iptacopan factor B
data, and it did suggest potentially competitive efficacy versus Soliris and Ultomiris, and it's oral,
but do you think it does look competitive? How should we read that data? Can we compare it to
what you've shown for Soliris and Ultomiris in PNH?
And you mentioned you've got a few things of your own, so you've got Factor Ds, but is the focus
more the Factor D now, or is the excitement more actually on 1720? When do you think you could
have either 1720 or a monotherapy Factor D for the market to compete with Novartis?
And the second question was just Imfinzi, and really strong performance in Q1. Can you break
down the performance a bit? Is much of that the acceleration coming from Himalayan Liver or
Poseidon, and is the performance very front-end weighted because Imjudo you charge more up
front, and then it sort of tapers off over the patient's treatment or is this like a clean Q1 number
we can extrapolate from for the rest of the year?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So James, actually, thank you.
The first question was actually two questions, so it's three questions in total. Marc, do you want to
take the first two and C5 franchise and Iptacopan and also then the factor of the portfolio versus
1720?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `
Yes. So first of all, the first question on Iptacopan, recent data versus C5. So first of all, I would like
to caution everybody on doing indirect comparison of very different clinical trials, especially when
the population that are included in the trials are very different. Just to provide an illustration of
that, the C5 inhibitors of Alexion, Soliris (Inaudible) usually include bone marrow failure patients
who do represent about 30% to 40% of the actual PNH population.The second difference -- the second visible difference is that the trials of Iptacopan are enriched
with EVH, extravascular hemolysis, and anemia patients suffering from anemia. And therefore,
when you measure improvement of hemoglobin, it's probably easier to demonstrate the benefit.
But just to go back to the comparison, we, as you have said, James, we also believe in the
potential for proximal inhibitors, Factor B or Factor D to play a role in the treatment of PNH,
whether this will be in co-therapy, as we have already demonstrated with danicopan, our first
Factor D, or whether it will be in monotherapy, as we are trying to demonstrate in vermicopan.
This remains to be seen. The key objective for PNH are obviously the control of intravascular
hemolysis and to prevent thrombosis, otherwise you are increasing significantly the mortality risk.
So we need to be seeing these results over time. Again, co-therapy versus monotherapy.
To turn to your second question, or third question, I don't really know, is 1720. For us, 1720 is an
improved generation of the first two C5. It's a subcut formulation provided on a weekly regimen.
We are still continuing the development. We see -- we have a trial in myasthenia gravis that is
progressing very well. So we are not abandoning the third generation of C5. We're also exploring
the Factor D. And as I described in my script, we have three of these Factor D, and each of them
will be positioned slightly differently across the development momentum.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Marc. So, James, there are two parts to your question, as I understand it. The first is
around the sources of growth that sit within the Imfinzi number; and then the second is really the
durability of that growth. On the first piece, I'm really pleased to say that the growth is coming
from multiple areas for Imfinzi Imjudo. We see across geographies and also across indications
that the performance was really driven for the quarter.
Maybe to start first, and importantly, we do see, albeit a minority, still an important part of the
growth coming from the existing indications. So, Pacific has strengthened. Caspian continues to
grow across the globe as we work against it. The lion's share of the growth has come from new
indications, TOPAZ-1 being the most significant of those, and we've seen really brisk uptake
across U.S., Japan, Europe. HIMALAYA is also growing and continuing to grow nicely. And in fact,
POSEIDON is an area where approved, so in the U.S. in particular, but also now getting underway
in Japan, we're beginning to make inroads there as well.
On your question specifically about Enjudo, just to share and to be helpful, Enjudo sales for the
quarter was 37 million. And for last quarter, they were 15 million. So it's actually a minority of the
900 million in the quarter. So it's not a front loaded Enjudo effect that you're seeing here. This
really is Imfinzi, TRXs that's driving this, and I expect us to continue to grow going forward.
I do think we've probably got a little bit of bolus on TOPAZ-1, but I think all the other dimensions
that I've described are ones that we expect to continue to move ahead.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Peter Whiteford [ph] at Jefferies. Go ahead, Peter.
Q - Analyst
Hi, thanks for taking the questions. So I've got two R&D ones. Firstly, just looking at the
tozorakimab, many outlined in the profile, just wondering if you can give us any thoughts following
the recent COPD data that we've had in biologics success there, in terms of does that impact
your thinking at all in development in this space and equally more broadly biologics in COPD. Andperhaps you just outline the population in particular you're looking at in the tozorakimab, COPD
Phase 3 study and how that differs.
And then secondly, on Farxiga combos, I know this comes up every quarter, but can you just give
us an update if there is any -- on any data you have for both, I guess, the (Inaudible), the CinCor,
now that's in-house and also the (Inaudible) and your latest thinking in terms of when we may see
those programmes move into Phase 3. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
So the first question on tozo and our COPD programmes, I mean, I think overall, and I think I said
this in the last quarter, I'm encouraged to see a molecule -- a biologic molecule work in COPD,
because I think it sort of gives us confidence that actually the programs we have with Fasenra,
with tozo, hopefully with our TSLP molecules as well will ultimately be positive. I think in terms of,
obviously, we need to see the Phase 2 data from our Phase 2 studies that are running with tozo,
although we've obviously started Phase 3 as well, based on some of the data we've already
seen. But I think I will say our confidence is high.
The profile of the patients that we have in our anti-IL33 program is looking at both smokers --
former smokers and current smokers, people with more than two exacerbations, and ultimately
will be helped to find by the Phase 2 study that's reading out.
For the Fasenra program in COPD, which is the most advanced program we have, we're basing it
off our two failed Phase 3 programs, and that's in patients that have had exacerbations. Again,
three or more exacerbations, and also have high eosinophil counts. So overall, I think I'm more
optimistic now that I've seen the program work in the biologic space, but ultimately, it will be
determined by readouts from our data.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Farxiga combo, any?
A - `Menelas Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Farxiga combos, again, I think the Phase 2 data is moving well. I can't talk about it too much,
because we haven't announced the data, but I would say we're very much still on track, both in
terms of the zibotentan program, the MR program, and Baxdrostat as a monotherapy, but also in
combination. And hopefully, during the course of the year, we'll be able to talk about the Phase 3
investment decisions, but it's a little bit too soon yet to talk about data specifically, but I would say
they're still on track in terms of our expectations for Phase 3 IDs and launches in --
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Mene. And then ultimately, Peter, the objective is really to develop a portfolio of
combinations that will address different patient segments and complement each other and cover
the whole field very well. But of course, this is still depending on a series of data sets.
`Emily Field, Barclays at Barclays. Go ahead, Emily.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi. Sorry -- sorry, I had to unmute. Yes, two questions for me. One, just, you mentioned on
Tagrisso, one of the drivers this quarter was improved duration of therapy for FLAURA. I was justwondering if you could provide more color around that, as we're getting asked a lot, particularly
ahead of whenever we may see Mariposa.
And then just camizestrant and adjuvant. I know that design of CAMBRIA-1 does allow for prior
CDK4/6 for two years, but does a potential change in adjuvant standard of care, you know we'll
see at ASCO, change our thinking about that study or just any thoughts on adjuvant there. Thank
you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Dave, do you want to take the first one, and Susan the second one?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, so in terms of Emily, the duration of therapy that we're seeing in the real world context, in
the U.S. and in Europe, we are seeing it longer than the median PFSs and DoT that we saw in
ADAURA. So, obviously, that was in the high 18s, I would say that we're now sort of seeing it
depending upon where we are, somewhere between kind of '21 and '24.
And the exactness of that is to be determined. But I think to the point that you're making, it's
obviously quite relevant as we think about how clinicians see the efficacy that they get from
monotherapy, Tagrisso. And it's something that I've commented on in past quarters that certainly
the efficacy that's coming through the monotherapy, together with the tolerability is what gives us
confidence that monotherapy is going to continue to be the first choice for many patients, based
upon that DoT that we're seeing in the real world from FLAURA.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So thanks for the question about camizestrant. So the CAMBRIA-1 study is designed to capture
that patient population that have had two to five years of adjuvant endocrine therapy with or
without a CDK4/6 inhibitor. So, the reinforcement of the benefit that you see of a CDK4/6
inhibitor in the adjuvant setting, I think, actually makes this trial even more relevant, because there
are patients that can benefit from extended adjuvant therapy in adjuvant setting. And these are
patients with intermediate or high risk of recurrence. So, I think the changes in the adjuvant
setting are in line with our expectations, and of course, CAMBRIA-1 does allow for both ribociclib
and abemaciclib.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Suzanne. `Andrew Baum, Citi at Citi. Over to you, Andrew.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Yeah, thank you. Question for Mene, and then one for Susan. So for Mene, you have allosteric oral
PCSK9 inhibitor that doesn't have a food interaction, which differentiates itself from Merck's
agent. You have got an open label Phase 2 trial, so you're seeing data, but it's very difficult to find
any published clinical data including your patterns of indication of efficacy of LDL lowering, just to
get some sense of contrast versus both Repatha, Praluent but also Merck's data.
So perhaps you could share with us given you have highlighted it, I know you're excited about it a
lot. Given the data that you have seen, animal as well as human, are you comfortable that it's
going to deliver efficacy in a similar ballpark to the Praluent, Repatha and Merck, at least in terms
of LDL lowering? So that's the first question.And then the second question to Susan, PARP inhibitors are absent from your lung cancer
domination master plan. I'm just curious whether this is because you're concerned about toxicity
in combining with topoisomerase inhibitors, whether you think that the efficacy doesn't have a
strong enough rationale or there's something else I might be missing here. Thank you.
A - `Menelas Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
So, I'll take the first one on PCSK cancer. So, a great question. And we're being somewhat cagey,
I think, on purpose, because obviously, it is a very competitive space, Andrew. So am I confident
that we're going to have a target product profile that's competitive? What I'll say is that we've
given ourselves like we did actually for the injectable PCSK9, I think a tough threshold for what we
would take forwards into more expensive late-stage studies. And so that's the profile we need to
hit.
I'm hoping we're going to get there. I'd like to see a few more patients dosed. I'm encouraged
by what I'm seeing, but I won't get too excited yet until we've seen a bit more patient data, and
of course, when we have then we'll be able to share it more broadly. But I think it looks
encouraging, but I wouldn't, it's not a home run yet.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So thanks for the question about PARP inhibitors in non-small cell lung cancer. So, there are a
subset of lung cancer patients that have mutations in HRR genes that may have increased
sensitivity to PARP inhibition. We're awaiting the readout of studies that are looking at the
combination of PARP inhibition plus IO therapy, and we're also in dose escalation in combination
with ADCs in a number of the trials.
So I think it just reflects. The MAP that you see is, as we see that evolution with the things that we
currently have in hand are ready to move into Phase III or close to Phase III. Then, of course, we
anticipate that the standards of care can continue to evolve as data evolves.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. `Tim Anderson, Wolfe at Wolfe. Over to you, Tim.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe `
Okay, thank you.
On Tagrisso, Astra usually maintains that Tagrisso monitor will likely remain the backbone for
most patients in frontline lung, yet you started this small combination study with amivantamab in
frontline. So can you talk about the rationale behind that, and why start that only recently? Why
wouldn't you have started that many months ago, even all the way back in 2022? What was the
trigger, and why such a small-size trial? Is that so you can quickly advance it into a larger Phase 3?
And then just on Dato-Dxd, are you as confident as ever ahead of the readout of TROPION-
Lung01? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. David, you take the first one; and Susan, the second one?A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yes, so Tim, just again to ground on our view for the EGFR mutated space, we see Tagrisso
clearly as the backbone of therapy for all patients being treated for EGFR mutated within,
obviously, our labeled indication. And we think the majority are mono. But we've also made really
clear that we do know that there is a desire to treat some patients with combination therapy.
And really, here we see FLAURA2 as being, hopefully, if the results in the Phase 3 look like those
from OPAL, appropriate for a certain subset of patients. We also have acknowledged and seen
that as the (Inaudible) data and the MARIPOSA data were unfolding, that there may indeed be a
role for some subset of patients to be treated with the amivantamab combo. It's within that
context that we've initiated the study that you described. It's called OSTARA. It's a non-
registrational medical affairs-led study. It's a relatively small practice-informing study as opposed
to something with registrational intent.
Really trying to answer questions for those who might have it down the road, around the safety
and the combinability of Tagrisso and amivantamab in the future, if there was a physician who
was interested in that. So, I would say that this isn't in any way a departure from the view that
we've got on Tagrisso. It is an additive component to a belief that Tagrisso is the backbone of
therapy moving forward.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Okay, in terms of Dato-DXd, at the risk of being boring, I want to be entirely consistent with what
I said before, which is that the profile that we have for Dato-DXd, we're confident about based
on the design of the ADC with the linker-warhead combination.
And the data in lung cancer, in particular, from the data from the Phase 1 study, which is not just
showing a response rate in later line lung cancer patients, but the durability of response is what
gives us confidence in the ability to beat the standard of care in the second line study. But we run
Phase 3 trials in order to get the results, and we're eagerly awaiting the results of the TROPION-
Lung01 as is everybody on the call. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. `Simon Baker, Redburn, Redburn. Over to you Simon.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
Thank you, Pascal. Two questions if I may. Firstly on dato, and apologies if I missed your comment
on this, but the timing on TROPION-Breast01 appears to have accelerated quite significantly. I just
wonder if there's anything you could comment on that.
And also with dato, there was a very interesting poster at AACR looking at resensitization in
resistant cell lines. The specific example being Schlafen 11 loss being resensitized with ATR
inhibitors. I just wondered how that fits in with your clinical development programs, and the
potential that would open up for multiple treatment lines with dato.
And then, secondly, changing the subject entirely, probably one for you, Pascal. I just wondered
what your initial thoughts were on yesterday's proposals for Pharma Legislation Reform proposed
by the European Commission. Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Susan, you want to cover the first two?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah. So for TROPION-Breast01, I think we're delighted that the accrual for this trial was six
months ahead of schedule, which I think just reflects the level of unmet need, and the level of
interest in the dato program for this particular setting. So, that's really the explanation for the
acceleration. Thanks for spotting the data that we had at ACR. I do think the ACR combination is
an interesting one. That's one of a number of different combinations that we're looking at with
our ADC portfolio.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. The European question, Simon, I mean, there are two parts to it. I think one part is
really the sort of long-term impact of something like this on Europe. And I think really that as it
relates to Europe, I mean, this is the wrong response to an important issue. And the issue is
access to medicines in Europe. And we know that Europe has been behind the U.S. in terms of
access, but quite frankly, it's also falling behind Japan and it's rapidly falling behind China as well.
And that has been associated with Europe also falling behind the U.S., but now also China in
terms of clinical trials and the emergence of biotechs. I mean, I was in China the last couple of
weeks and you can see the innovation is really impressive in that country. So, that's really -- this
potential legislation is really not a good idea in terms of securing a strong licenses sector in
Europe.
In terms of the impact on the industry and our company, it really is something that will evolve over
time because first of all it will take a couple of years for various stakeholders and participants to
comment and discussions will take place. Nothing will be coming into legislation for another two
years. So, in terms of commenting on the impact, I think it is a little bit early in details and we
should wait for the end result of this discussion and see what comes out of the legislation.
But I guess really, again, the sort of general underlying message that this kind of approach sends
is that Europe is not really the most attractive place for the industry to invest in. And the reality is
that there's an enormous amount of innovation in the U.S. to tap into. We've all known that. But
it's rapidly increasing, very, very large amount of innovation in China, actually.
So the next question is `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken at Handelsbanken. Mattias, over to you.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken `
All right.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Mathias.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken `
Hi. Thanks for the question. I have two, please. So staying on China, which you touched upon in
the previous question, I was just curious to hear a bit more on why you decided to bring it up in
the CEO statement in this report, emphasizing the growth and pace of innovation, if it was
something in particular that made it sensible to bring up in this quarter and not earlier.And then secondly, I'm curious to understand if there is more color to provide on the decision to
terminate ALXN1840. Marc, mentioned it on the call. I know that regulators asked for two
mechanistic studies. What's the outcome of those, the final piece? And does this to any extent
change the character of what rare disease assets that would interest AstraZeneca going
forward? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So thanks, Mattias. I'll take the first one and I'll ask also Leon, to jump in. And Marc, maybe you
want to take the Wilson termination question.
The reason I've brought it up is that I really think that we wanted to signal that China is back. I
mean, the economy is bouncing back. The government is very focused on what they call high-
quality growth. Science and innovation is one of their priorities across all sorts of industrial sectors,
of course, not only life sciences. They're focused on green development, they're focused on
collaboration, and they really are implementing a very impressive program in terms of stimulating
economy and driving innovation.
And that plays into a whole series of new innovative technologies and products that are coming
out of the biotech sector. So, we wanted to signal this because first of all, China is an important
market, of course, and then it's also not only an important market in terms of helping patients
and driving growth, but it's also an important market in terms of tapping into innovation.
Leon can talk about this and maybe also Susan could comment on some of the deals we did, and
Susan was also in China for a couple of weeks. So, we both came back definitely impressed with
the progress that has been made in this country.
And the last reason I wanted to signal it is that, it plays to our strengths as a company. We are the
largest pharma company in China. We have a tremendous team, and really it positions us very
well to benefit from everything that's happening in that country.
Leon, do you want to sort of comment and maybe you could also comment on some of the
things we are doing across China and the various headquarters, et cetera?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International and China President `
Yeah, I think before I comment on China, I think emerging market is overall quite exciting. And
China is about 14%, 15% and outside of China, emerging market are growing much faster, also
14%, 15%. So it's really worth looking at.
And within China, I think we are number one company with a quite solid position. And we actually
speed up our global import product portfolio rapidly to benefit the Chinese patients. So, this year
we have (Inaudible) and also Calquence and also we launched our rare disease portfolio. So all
these things are very exciting for import portfolio.
And also we have $1 billion fund -- venture fund investing into companies we are familiar and also
attractive. I think, Susan and many global research team are helping us to identify interesting
targets to invest.
So -- and plus we are also closely working with many China rising startup companies. And we --
like what -- we work with HUTCHMED on developing their c-MET drug, Savolitinib. And also as a
starting point, and in the future, Susan's team also signed several deals in cell therapy and also in
Claudin 18.2.And also, we hope also to tap into the non-oncology rising innovation in China. So, I think China
innovation, like Pascal put it, in the past two, three weeks, we traveled across and meeting a lot
of interesting startup companies and it is really exploding. So we hope instead of watching, I think
we are leading company in China. So we should benefit from rising innovation in China to make
these innovation also accessible to the patient outside China.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So thanks, Leon. And just a couple of comments on the deals that we've done. So as you said,
building on the relationship we've had with Hutchison MediPharma for Savolitinib. Recently done
three deals in the last 12 months with Cellular Biomedicine Group for the cell therapy, asset,
where they're helping by running the investigator initiated trial with our GPC3 construct. And this
actually helps us accelerate that program and gain clinical experience faster than we could
otherwise.
We also have done a deal with Harbor BioMed for a T-cell engager targeting Claudin 18.2, which is
an important target on gastric and pancreatic cancer. And then with KeyMed access to an
antibody drug conjugate with an MME warhead, again, targeting Claudin 18.2.
So I do think, as Pascal has said, we come back from China excited and energized by the
interactions that we've got there; the level of innovation and the science; the quality; the number
of companies that are starting up in that space. It's very exciting. And the quality of the
investigators that you can work with is also really good. So, I think it is an opportunity for us to
leverage our position there, and help us to actually, not just think about China delivering for
China, but China innovation delivering for globally relevant indications and accelerating that.
So, I think that's the opportunity that's there to be had.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `
First of all, let me remind you of the reason why Alexion invested in 1840. Wilson disease is a
disease with an extremely high medical need, where no innovation has taken place for decades,
beyond the copper collector. So, this is why Alexion invested in it.
Regarding the recent decision that we made, it's basically a case of looking at the totality of data
and also close interaction with regulators. The Phase 3 that we produced in 2021 produced
positive results, but then we conducted, as you mentioned, two mechanistic studies whose
results were less clear.
So when you look at the overall, the totality of the data, it was not possible for us to demonstrate
clearly a benefit, a risk for the Wilson population, and then we decided to discontinue.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. James Quigley at Morgan Stanley. You may go ahead, James.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, it's `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Apologies with the mix up. Two questions. Firstly,
Pascal, could you help us understand and put into context the PanTumor opportunity for Enhertu.So firstly, the sort of probability and breadth of the PanTumor approval you may get from the
PanTumor02 trial, plans to move into earlier lines, and then the importance of the PanTumor01
trial in HER2 mutant cancer in terms of wrapping up sort of broader opportunity there.
And then, secondly, the lung cancer Slide 15 is super helpful. I just wondered, given the sort of
progress, the investment that's being made in gastric and GI tumors, could you provide us some
perspective of where you're heading here? I sort of know, as Susan just mentioned, the Claudin
18.2 ADC opportunities, obviously, validated with the Astellas molecular antibody and response
rates of over 75% and potential combination there. So, the gastric opportunity, firstly, and then
secondly, the colorectal cancer opportunity, where the EGFR CIMA bispecific ADC looks super
exciting. So, your thoughts there would be great. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, so much. Susan, do you want to cover those?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Okay. So, thanks for the interest in the PanTumor in HER2 data, which as I said, are going to be
shared at ASCO. So, I think we probably will have more detailed conversation there about the --
obviously this is something we're going to need to discuss with regulatory authorities, and there'll
be a question about, the appropriate biomarker cutoff across different indications. So I think, we
are also, of course, looking at the HER2 mutant setting.
There is an overlap between HER2 mutation and the HER2 overexpressions, so the HER2 mutant
tumors are quite often highly overexpressing as well. But I think there will be data that we'll look
at that which, I think helps support the data that we'll have from the pan-HER2 overexpressing
segment.
And then in terms of, moving into GI cancers, with the TOPAZ and HIMALAYA data that Dave's
already referenced, I think we have a beachhead into these tumors with Imfinzi, but I think there is
significant opportunity to improve on the current standard of care. And that's why we're excited
about the Claudin 18.2 ADC asset there. Obviously, we're also looking at combinations of ADC
plus IO agents across the portfolio.
With regards to the EGFR met by specific in colorectal cancer. Yes, there is overexpression of
both of these targets within colorectal cancer. I think we also have to look at the activity level in
patients that have had prior topoisomerase inhibition in some of the GI tumors, which is
something that is relevant. And of course, colorectal cancer often overexpresses membrane
pumps that can pump out warheads. So, I think we just need to see the clinical data in order to
understand what the real potential is for these molecules. But you're right that this is an area of
interest for us. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim, Guggenheim. Seamus, over to you.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim `
Thanks for the question. So really, my only question is on at (Inaudible), we saw some impressive
data presented at the recent NEURO meeting. Just hoping that you could comment on that and
also follow-up with the broader plans and opportunity that you see in the overall ATTR setting,
particularly given your plans on the cardiac side and the overall competitive landscape. Thanks.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks so much. Mene do you want to cover it from the R&D, then (Multiple Speakers) at that
point, maybe Ruud, could jump in and also give a sense of other potential.
A - `Menelas Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
So, I think we were particularly pleased with the functional data in terms of the quality of life,
because we continue to see an improvement, which I think is -- looks I think quite compelling. And
obviously, I think the data that we've seen now and the consistency of our data gives us more
confidence, given the mechanism this is going to work well in cardiomyopathy as well.
So I thing overall, we're very pleased. We're excited with the submission and the filing in
polyneuropathy and waiting with anticipation for the cardiomyopathy data at the moment. Ruud?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, so a little bit of the scoping of the opportunity. There are roughly 40,000 patients with
ATTR-PN, so it's a relatively small population, but there's a very large overlap with the main
indication, cardiomyopathy. As we have announced, the FDA has accepted our filing, and we're
expecting hopefully a positive outcome in the second half of this year. And the team in the United
States is working, of course, on the pre-launch activities.
And equally, we are preparing ourselves for the CM indication, the much larger indication.
Roughly, there are between 300,000 and 500,000 patients worldwide with CM, but there's also
a tremendous underdiagnosis in the CM. Most of those patients are detected very late in their
disease state. Clearly, with our activities in the HFpEF indication with Farxiga, we are expecting
that the diagnosis rate will at least double moving forward. So, all in all, it's a very substantial
population in order to promote our product in the CM category. Of course, that will all be a little
bit later. That will be after 2024. But all in all, all the lights at the moment are clearly green.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for that. `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for taking the question. Perhaps first one on PROpel ahead of the advisory review
tomorrow. Any perspectives you could give us on the FDA's stance that it is keen to potentially
restrict approval to not just the HRR, but eventually the BRCA subgroup of patients? So, would be
interested to hear your thoughts on those documents and expectations into tomorrow?
And then perhaps a question on floor to ahead of the imminently due headline data. Perhaps you
could help frame our expectations on PFS in light of the OPAL data that was presented at ASCO
last year, where you saw a 70% PFS rate at 24 months. Should we be thinking of a high 20s
median PFS as achievable, or is the number radically different to that, either below or above also
possible? Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Emmanuel. I think they are both for you, Susan. You are very popular today, as always.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `Yes. So obviously, we'll know tomorrow the outcome of the PROpel ODAC, but I'd make three
points. First of all, there is a mechanism of action for interaction of the androgen receptor
downstream signaling and Olaparib. So AR is involved in DNA repair in AR-driven cells and actually
depends on part one. So with the combination, you get increased DNA damage selectively in AR-
driven cells, regardless of the BRCA status. And we have data to demonstrate that.
So, this is different from the monotherapy settings such as varying cancer late line settings. And
that difference in mechanism of action is reflected in the data from three randomized clinical
trials, the study eight, Phase 2 study, the PROpel study, and TALAPRO-2 which recently readout,
which all show similar effect sizes with strong benefit, both in BRCA wild type as well as in BRCA
mutant. This effect however is dependent on dose because it's dependent on the PARP trapping
effect and hence the difference I think with magnitude.
The second point I make is the effect size in the BRCA wild type cannot be explained by false
negative ctDNA testing. There's high agreement for the ctDNA and tissue testing at 94%. So, if
you look at the patients that are ctDNA negative and tissue undetermined, that's 226 patients in
the PROpel study, only six could be effectively misclassified. This cannot explain the effect size.
And third point is that the evidence does not support that there's an OS determinant, I think
identifying the double negatives, both CTDNA and tissue-based negative study is looking at a
subgroup of a subgroup.
And in fact, in the BRCA undetermined group, the OS hazard ratio is 0.71. So if you look at the
totality of the data and the totality of the secondary endpoints, I think it supports a good benefit-
risk profile for Olaparib in this patient population in combination with abiraterone. So, that's our
position. We'll represent that strongly at the ODAC tomorrow, and we look forward to seeing
what the results of that are.
In terms of FLAURA2, the OPAL data that was published is in a reasonable-sized patient
population, about 60 patients. So I think, it gives you reasonable confidence about the limits of
the median PFS, which in that study was 31 months. So I think, that's the basis for assumption for
FLAURA2, you can obviously get some regression to the mean as you move from Phase 2 to
Phase 3. But I think, we're confident in that effect size and the tolerability profile that we actually
see for the combination.
So, I think this is going to be an important potential new opportunity for Tagrisso and represents
a choice that then patients can have. Not every patient will want a combination therapy, but I think
it represents a potential opportunity for those patients with bulkier disease or the end-to-end of
the spectrum.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Susan. `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Two questions if I can. The first is a follow-up on TROPION-Breast01. Susan,
you mentioned that recruitment was six months ahead of expectations, but the readout has been
brought forward, I think nearly 18 months. So can you explain the difference? Is it that you'veshifted the focus to the PFS endpoint or co-primary endpoint rather than OS? Any further
commentary would be very helpful.
And then secondly, a question on TROPION-Lung01, similar to the one we've just had on
FLAURA2. We're all looking forward to that press release, and we're hoping that we're going to
see that Astra favored comments are clinically meaningful. Can someone on the call set out what
clinically meaningful would be in your view, so that we aren't surprised when we subsequently see
the data?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So, thanks for the questions. To start with TropION-Breast01, we have a dual primary endpoint of
PFS and OS in this study. The endpoints haven't changed, but the rapid accrual just gives us the
opportunity for that to be readout at an earlier point. And I think what we've guided before was,
beyond the end of this year versus now coming into this year. So, I don't think it really is as big a
shift in the timelines as you're indicating.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
I think, Susan, maybe this is a good time to give yourself a pat on the back on your team, because
your recruitment has been incredibly fast and the team has done a beautiful job, yes.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. Well, let me give all the credit to the team, because they're the ones that have done the
work. So, Christian Massacesi's team and Michele Sample, who's led the operations team have
done a great job here.
In terms of TROPION-Lung01, what we said before in terms of clinical meaningfulness, you're
expecting, if you look at the Contact-01 dataset, something in the range of four to five months
median PFS for the control arm, I think, is a reasonable assumption. And, it's well-sized for a
clinically meaningful benefit, which would probably be in the range of two to three months on that
background. So, I don't think that's changed either, if that answers your question.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. `Luisa Hector, Berenberg, Berenberg. Luisa, go ahead.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Hi, there. Thanks, Pascal. So maybe just a quick one again for Susan on when we might see the
first response rate data for the internal ADCs that you highlighted. And then perhaps just if you
can quantify in Q1, anything on price impact. There seemed to be various movements, particularly
European clawbacks were mentioned in the press release. So maybe split between U.S. and
Europe any impact on price, and then stocking or gross-to-net impacts, which were also scattered
throughout the press release. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Luisa. Susan, do you want to take the first one. And Ruud, you would take the second
one? And if Dave, you want to step in also, please do so, but maybe start with Susan.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Okay. And regarding, Luisa, the clawbacks in itself in Europe specifically are not unusual. We are
facing that year after year. It's our normal business practice, and we are just flagging it in order to
provide a little bit more color to our business performance. That's also true in the United States.
As you know very well, of course, in the United States, we're negotiating our prices on an annual
basis, and there are rebates and, of course, gross-to-net adjustments, and at least in the
foreseeable future, we expect to continue that. And, of course, there's new legislation potentially
coming on our way in the United States with the IRA, but all in all, currently, it's clearly business as
usual.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
I mean, I think the only piece, Luisa, that I'd add to that is that I commented in my remarks on
Calquence and Lynparza stocking in the quarter. I don't have much more to add, but that certainly
was relevant for both of those brands.
And then on price in the U.S. -- well, see, we took some price increases in line with what we
thought was appropriate. But keep in mind that in the quarter, the impact of that is relatively
negligible, because you got price protections that are in place for a lot of the distributors and the
payers and the GPOs, just to try to put a bit more color on your question. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
`Michael Leuchten, UBS, UBS.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, UBS `
Thank you. Two questions, please. Just going back to the speed of recruitment for both FLAURA2
and MARIPOSA, how do you square that with your view that monotherapy, EGFR, is going to be
the standard of care? If it has to be squared at all, just interested in your thought that both of
these trials have recruited very, very quickly.
And a quick question for Dave, what was the underlying growth for Lynparza in Q1, if you strip out
the inventory work that I presume came out of the PROpel expectations?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
I just want to clarify, TL01 is a breast cancer?
Q - `Michael Leuchten, UBS `
No, no FLAURA2 and MARIPOSA recruited fast. And what does that mean in terms of physicians'
interest in this combination?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Fine. Well, I mean, there are patients who will want even more benefit than can be achieved with
monotherapy, Tagrisso. But I'm just pointing out that if you look at the totality of patients that
you're treating with EGFR mutant lung cancer, a lot of them elderly, and oral monotherapy that
they can take at home is an attractive option. But if you're looking at patients that want to recruit
clinical trial sites and academic centers, that's a different patient population who are often looking
for more options.So, I think there's a large number of patients that have got first-line metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer. So, it's a big indication. There's lots of opportunity to improve on the current standard of
care there.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Jeff, maybe you could comment on Lynparza, but also from a commercial viewpoint, how do you
see this FLAURA2 and MARIPOSA combination and physicians' reactions to those?
A - `Jeff Pott, Chief Human Resources Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and General Counsel `
Absolutely. So on Lynparza, Michael, on a sequential first versus fourth quarter, on the global
sales, we see growth across Europe in demand. We see growth in rest of world also within
international.
In terms of within the U.S. right now, I would say that demand is relatively stable, net of the
stocking that we described. I again made comments on this. There is opportunity for us to
continue to grow Lynparza. Some of these opportunities are more challenging.
It's about driving testing rates in ovarian and the HRD population. It's about really creating even
further imperative in driving testing for BRCA in breast cancer among hormone receptor positive
patients where the unmet need and the perceived unmet need is not quite the same as it is in
triple negative.
Transitioning again, just to go to Pascal's question to me around the opportunity for FLAURA2. We
know that there are certain patients with presentation of more aggressive disease. We also know
that certainly if we're able to replicate the PFS results and the response rates of nearly 90% that
we see in OPAL along with the PFS of 31 months that we are seeing within OPAL, that there will
be a subset of patients for whom that combination is something that physicians may very well
want to be utilizing.
And so as Susan said, while we believe that the majority of patients will be seen as most
appropriate for monotherapy, because it's oral, because we're getting good, approaching two
years PFS, and because the side effect profile is well understood for certain patients, where the
disease appears more aggressive, getting that response rate using FLAURA2 will be seen as
attractive. And I think that that could translate into further growth in terms of duration of therapy
as well, in terms of the period of time that they stay Tagrisso.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. We'll take the last question. Amara Singh at Intron. Go ahead, Amara.
Q - Analyst
Hi, there. Thanks. It's Naresh Chouhan from Intron. Just a question on -- a couple of questions on
Calquence, please. Some work we've done suggests that Venclexta is eating into that CLL space.
So, just could you help us understand how fast the BTK class is growing?
And then secondly, how do you see pricing evolving for the BTKs, and particularly for Calquence.
It seems to us (Inaudible) price has been falling quite materially over the last year or so. Thank
you.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `Thanks. So thanks for the question. On the first of the questions, and really, I guess I'll focus my
answer in the U.S. What we're seeing is that Venetoclax has been relatively stable in terms of its
frontline, second line and frankly, third line CLL share.
I think that within that context, we have actually seen growth in the BTKi class. I think one of the
benefits that's come from a new entrant in this next generation BTKis is that it's created class
growth, which I think has been certainly beneficial to Calquence.
In terms of your second question, it's a good one and an important one. Historically, I've
commented that contracting pricing gross to net has been relatively, I would say, sort of rational
and lower pressure. We do see mounting gross to net pressures in the U.S. within the BTKi class,
and I do think that as we look forward towards IRA and negotiation and the possibility that first-
generation BTKis enter in, that's something that we certainly expect to see more pressures on
the class moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. So, thank you so much for all your great questions, and we wish you a great rest of
the day. Thanks. Bye-bye.