Q3 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the U.S. Good afternoon to those in the UK and Central
Europe. And good evening to those listening in Asia. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to
AstraZeneca's Nine Months and Q3 Results 2023 Conference Call and Webinar for Investors and
Analysts.
Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The company
intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with respect to
the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our expectations
are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties, and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the
slide deck that accompanies this presentation and webinar. There will be an opportunity to ask
questions after today's presentations. (Operator Instructions)
And with that, I will now hand you over to the company.
`Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Operator. I'm `Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations at AstraZeneca, and I'm very
pleased to welcome you to AstraZeneca's nine months and third quarter of 2023 conference call.
As usual, all materials presented are available on our website.
This slide contains our usual Safe Harbor statement. We will be making comments on our
performance using constant exchange rates or CER, core financial numbers, and other non-GAAP
measures. A non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliation is contained within the results announcement.
Numbers used today are in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated.
This slide shows our agenda for today's call. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the
line for questions. As usual, we will try and address as many questions as we can during the
allotted time, although I would ask participants to limit the number of questions you ask to allow
others a fair chance to participate in the Q&A. (Operator Instructions)
And with that, Pascal, I will hand it over to you.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy. Hello, everyone. Please advance to the next slide. Total revenue in the first nine
months of the year increased 5% to $33.8 billion, with 15% growth from our non-COVID-19
medicines, offsetting a $2.9 billion decline in revenue from our COVID-19 medicines. Core
earnings per share increased 17% to $5.80. This increase is reflecting -- reflective of our robust
company performance, our financial discipline, as well as, again, in other operating income that
we announced with our half-year results.
We continue to benefit from our diverse commercial portfolio and our broad global footprint.
Given our confidence in the remainder of the year, we have upgraded our 2023 guidance. We
now anticipate total revenue ex-COVID to increase by low-teens percentage and core EPS to
increase by low double-digit to low teens percentage. Aradhana will provide more details on our
financials shortly.
Next slide, please. Taking a closer look at the performance of our non-COVID revenue across our
regions and disease areas, we saw double-digit growth in the U.S. and Europe in the period,
reflecting strong demand for our medicines and continued commercial execution. Our growth in
the emerging markets continues to impress, particularly outside of China, which was up 37% in
the year-to-date. This sustained growth underscores our confidence that these markets will
become increasingly important for our company.
On the right-hand side of this slide, you will see that we delivered robust double-digit growth
across oncology, CVRM, and rare disease. And as expected, we saw declines in V&I. R&I
medicines growth more than compensated for the impact of generic competition to Symbicort
launched in the U.S. during the third quarter. We saw a reduction in promotional activities in China
in Q3, which created some demand softness for certain medicines in the quarter. But I havealready seen recovery beginning in October. We remain confident in delivering our total revenue
guidance for China for the full year, which we upgraded with our half-year results.
Please move to the next slide. And like many of our peers, we have relatively low exposure to
patent expiries. We have a broad, diverse portfolio of commercialized medicines, and we have an
industry-leading late-stage pipeline, which includes several high-potential assets. However, our
vision is not short term. We are also striving to deliver sustainable industry leading growth for
many years to come. And while we are maintaining a focus on discovering new small and large
molecules, we have taken the strategic decision to increase investment behind new modalities
that we believe have the potential to revolutionize outcomes for patients.
With our ADC portfolio, we are aiming to replace the use of traditional chemotherapy across the
board. Combinations of our ADCs with our next generation IO bispecific portfolio offers the
promise of more durable benefits for patients with improved tolerability. We are pioneering new
modalities such as epigenetics, oligonucleotides, and RNA therapies to unlock entirely new
treatment approaches. And we are excited by the curative potential of cell engine therapies. I am
pleased with the progress we are making in each of these areas and I look forward to sharing
updates with you over the coming years.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Aradhana, who will take you
through our financials and also provide a closer look at how we are leveraging AI in the
commercial parts of our company.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal. Please advance to the next slide. As usual, I will start with our reported P&L. As
Pascal highlighted, total revenue increased by 5% in the first nine months, and product sales
increased by 4% at constant exchange rates. Excluding COVID-19 medicines, total revenue and
product sales increased by 15%. Alliance revenue of $1 billion was driven by increased Enhertu
profit sharing from geographies where Daiichi Sankyo books product sales. As a reminder, Daiichi
will book product sales in the U.S. and main European countries.
Please advance to the next slide. Looking at our core P&L, we saw the product sales gross margin
increase by 2 percentage points to 82.4% driven by lower COVID sales compared to the prior
year. We anticipate a lower gross margin in the fourth quarter driven by higher FluMist sales,
which has a very low gross margin. Beyfortus which we supply to Sanofi, also has a dilutive impact
on our product sales gross margins. Over time, the gross margin percentage will be diluted by
both increased profit sharing for partner products such as Tezspire and Enhertu in territories
where we book revenue and higher emerging market revenue, partly offset by favorable product
sales mix.
Our core operating expenses increased 7% over the period. Similar to previous years, we expect
a set up -- step up in absolute cost in the fourth quarter driven by SG&A spend phasing and the
number of new Phase III starts. For the full year, we anticipate operating expenses around the
upper end of our previous indication of low to mid-single-digit increase, driven by continued
investment in our business to support the strong top-line growth seen into year-end. Core EPS of
$5.80 represents a CER growth of 17%.
Next slide, please. Our cash flow continues to improve and net debt decreased in the quarter to
$23.4 billion, despite an interim dividend payment of $1.5 billion. Our net-debt-to-EBITDA now
stands at 1.7x, with the Alexion fair value inventory adjustment now behind us.Turning to our full-year guidance, we now anticipate total revenue to increase by a mid-single-
digit percentage, up from previously low-to-mid single-digit. Excluding COVID-19 medicines, we
now anticipate a growth in the low-teens percentage range. For core EPS, we now anticipate to
grow by a low double-digit to low-teens percentage, which is an upgrade versus prior guidance
of a high single-digit to low double-digit percentage increase. Based on current FX rates, we
anticipate a low single-digit adverse FX impact on total revenue. For core EPS, we now anticipate
a mid-single-digit adverse impact on core EPS, which is a change versus last quarter reflecting
current FX rates.
Please advance to the next slide. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. The number
one priority is to reinvest in the business. By the end of the year, we will have started more Phase
III trials than in prior years. Our high R&D productivity will also impact SG&A costs, as we will have
a number of new products to launch in the coming year, including Airsupra in the U.S. and
Eplontersen, and also preparation for potential new launches of Dato-DXd following the positive
data presented at ESMO just a couple of weeks ago. We're continuing to expand Alexion rare
disease products into more international markets, now present in 64 countries. Many of the new
modalities we're investing in, as well as the growth in our portfolio, will require further investment
in CapEx.
In addition, we're investing in our manufacturing network, optimizing our global footprint, and
investing in upgrading our systems. We also remain focused on value-enhancing business
development, where we believe we can best leverage our R&D and commercial capabilities. We
have done a number of deals this year, including CinCor and Neogene, and today with Eccogene,
and we will continue to do so where and when we see attractive opportunities. We have also a
number of successful partnerships, including with Daiichi on Enhertu and Dato, and Merck on
Lynparza, and Ionis on Eplontersen. Overall, we will continue to invest to support growth, drive
innovation, and bring innovative medicines to patients quicker.
Please advance to the next slide. Continuing our commitment to showcase the use of AI across
our business, in prior calls, I've covered some examples of the use in R&D and manufacturing
operations. Today, I'll highlight the use of AI and advanced analytics to drive faster decision-
making within a commercial organization. Starting first with data and analytics, our in-house
proprietary platform called AZBrain analyzes multiple large data sets, enriching the data to
correct for inaccuracies, duplication and data gaps to generate actionable insights.
Next, we leverage AI to improve patient diagnosis and personalized treatment approaches. Even
today, roughly 6% of EMR data is still unstructured. Application of novel technology to lung cancer
screening enabled analysis of over 6 million handwritten documents in just one day and led to
over 25,000 high-risk patients being reassessed. We plan to scale this technology to additional
health systems and tumor types, including breast cancer. We also apply large multimodal data
sets to our clinical trials to help identify the right patient population for trials and to deliver more
personalized precision medicines and improve the success rate of our studies.
Finally, we're using AI and predictive analytics to inform more precise, tailored engagement with
physicians using the preferred communication channel at a time when they're most likely to
engage with potentially eligible patients. Our investments in AI have yielded important actionable
insights into how we can continue to best serve our patients globally.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Dave.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `Thank you, Aradhana. Next slide, please. Oncology delivered solid performance in the year-to-
date period with total revenues of over $13.5 billion, an increase of 20% versus the prior year,
driven by strong global demand reinforcing both the value of our portfolio as well as the
continued execution by our global teams.
Turning now to our key medicines. In the third quarter, Tagrisso global revenues grew 6%, fueled
by continued demand for ADAURA and FLAURA. In China, we saw some market impact from the
anti-corruption campaign, but we have already observed recovery into the fourth quarter.
Lynparza delivered 8% product sales growth in the third quarter, driven by double-digit growth in
established rest of world and emerging markets. Lynparza extended its leadership position in the
PARP inhibitor class globally despite decreasing class use and the second-line label restriction in
ovarian cancer in the United States.
We continue to accelerate our IO portfolio with a competitive class in the third quarter. Imfinzi
total revenues, inclusive of Imjudo, delivered 54% growth driven by new launches. Calquence
total revenues increased 15%, driven both by expanded access in Europe and demand growth
globally. Enhertu total revenues of $339 million in the third quarter increased 86% year-on-year.
And in the U.S., Enhertu new patient share in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer and HER2-
low post-chemo metastatic breast cancer remain above 50%.
We continue to see strong demand growth globally, particularly in European markets, driven by
recent launches of DESTINY-Breast03 and DESTINY-Breast04. In the quarter, Enhertu became the
first antibody drug conjugate approved for lung cancer in Europe and Japan, and we received
approval for Calquence in China. At ESMO, we presented updated FLAURA2 data, which Susan
will cover shortly, and we are excited to have been granted priority review for FLAURA2 in the
United States. We also received FDA acceptance for AEGEAN. These two important potential
treatment regimens advance our ambitions in lung cancer.
Next slide, please. Looking ahead, we're well positioned within our oncology portfolio, focusing
on two medicines in increasingly competitive markets, Tagrisso and Calquence. We are confident
in sustained leadership and future growth. We're well on our way to establishing Tagrisso at every
stage for patients with EGFR mutated non-small cell lung cancer, supported by its best-in-class,
once-daily oral regimen and leading benefit risk profile.
With ADAURA, we have the opportunity to further accelerate testing, referral, and treatment
rates in the resectable setting and to expand access through global reimbursements. The LAURA
trial anticipated to read out in the first half of next year, presents the opportunity to leverage our
existing presence in unresectable Stage III with PACIFIC and offer a targeted therapy for EGFR-
mutated patients.
Next in the frontline metastatic setting, we continue to see increased real-world duration of
treatment driven by patients gaining sustained benefit on Tagrisso monotherapy. FLAURA2
represents the opportunity to build on FLAURA, further extending duration of treatment and
offering a best-in-class option for the subset of patients that may require more intensive
treatment upfront. Novel lifecycle management and combination opportunities allow for
continued reinforcement of Tagrisso as the backbone TKI of choice in non-small cell lung cancer.
Calquence remains the leading BTK inhibitor across all indications in the face of increasing class
competition, and we've seen clear recovery in the relapsed refractory setting. Going forward,
we're confident Calquence will continue to maintain leadership globally despite increased
competitive pressures, reinforced by strong efficacy and differentiated safety.With that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll hand over to Susan to cover key R&D
highlights in the quarter.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. Over the past quarter, we've had a significant presence at key oncology
congresses, including the World Conference on Lung Cancer and ESMO. We continue to
consolidate our leadership position in lung cancer with data from FLAURA2 unveiled at World
Congress on Lung Cancer. These data demonstrated that Tagrisso plus chemotherapy extended
the median progression free survival by nine months compared to Tagrisso alone in patients with
first-line EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer. This is the longest median PFS that's been
seen to date in this setting.
Further data at ESMO underscored the critical importance this regimen has for patients with the
greatest unmet need, including those with CNS metastases at diagnosis. In these patients,
Tagrisso plus chemotherapy resulted in more than 50% complete responses. FLAURA2
reinforces Tagrisso as the backbone therapy in EGFR-mutated lung cancer, and the data have
now been published in the New England Journal of Medicine.
At ESMO, we expanded on our footprint in gynecological cancers with presentation of the GOE
data. This trial is the first to show increased benefit of combining both an immune checkpoint
inhibitor and PARP inhibitor in the first-line advanced endometrial cancer setting, and
demonstrated a deeper benefit with Lynparza in the proficient-MMR, and PD-L1 positive
populations. We're in discussions with regulatory agencies around planned submission.
We also had the first two positive Phase III presentations for Dato-Dxd, with data from both
TROPION-Lung01 and TROPION-Breast01 presented at ESMO. These underscore its potential to
replace backbone chemotherapy in these settings, with both trials demonstrating the clear
efficacy improvement of Dato-Dxd versus conventional chemotherapy, together with an
improved safety profile. Dato-Dxd best-in-class profile opens up future opportunities for
combination with both IO and platinum chemotherapy, and builds confidence for its potential in
earlier lines and other tumor types. We're moving to filing in both lung and breast cancer.
Next slide, please. Our bispecific portfolio is designed to displace current standard of care
immune checkpoint inhibition. These molecules are engineered to simultaneously inhibit two
immune checkpoints, eliciting different biological effects compared with existing concurrent
combinations. And early data suggest potential both as monotherapy and in combination with
existing treatments such as chemotherapy. We are also combining our bispecifics with our ADC
portfolio in Phase 2 trials. We're encouraged by the early data for volrustomig, our PD-1 CTLA-4
bispecific. In first line advanced lung cancer, volrustomig, at 750 milligrams plus chemotherapy
resulted in similar objective response rate as the higher 1,500 milligram dose with improved
tolerability.
In treatment naive advanced renal cell carcinoma, data at ESMO demonstrated deep and durable
responses at the 750-milligram dose with a response rate of 48%, a complete response rate of
10%, and a 12-month progression-free survival rate of 52%. Again, we saw improved tolerability
compared to the higher 1,500 milligram dose.
Patients with PDL-1 low lung cancer remain a group of high unmet need and we continue to see
that current PD-1 and PD-L1 agents have more limited benefit even when combined with
chemotherapy within this patient population. Previous data such as those from our Phase III
POSEIDON trial of Imfinzi plus Imjudo, demonstrate that CTLA-4 inhibition can improve thewhether volrustomig plus chemotherapy can improve outcomes versus standard-of-care
pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy. EVOLVE-Lung02 is just one of the four bispecific trials we've
announced this year, with two others for volrustomig, and one for rilvegostomig.
Next slide, please. Our industry-leading ADC development program continues to move at pace,
with five wholly-owned antibody drug conjugates now in the clinic, and many more in preclinical
development. Recent data shared at the ASCO virtual plenary illustrates the potential of our
Claudin 18.2 redirected antibody drug conjugate. Patients with Claudin 18.2 positive gastric or
gastroesophageal cancer treated with AZD0901 showed an encouraging 33% confirmed
response rate and a median progression-free survival of around five months. Claudin 18.2 is highly
expressed in 50% to 60% of gastric cancers and AZD0901 has potential to build on the
important data we've already delivered with Enhertu in HER2-positive gastric cancer and the
emerging data from MATTERHORN for imfinzi in resectable gastric cancer, thus accelerating our
leadership in GI cancers.
Next slide, please. Finally, I want to touch on our expanding presence in cell therapy. We now have
three CAR-Ts in development, all of which include our transforming growth factor receptor beta
and armoring. This armoring is designed to resist the immune-suppressive tumor
microenvironment and enhance the potential effectiveness in solid tumors. We've seen
encouraging data in humans with our GPC3 CAR-T AZD7003, which demonstrates that this
armoring is likely important for CAR-T persistence when compared to other CAR-Ts targeting
GPC3 without armoring.
We're also exploring the potential of our T-cell receptor therapies following the acquisition of
Neogene therapeutics. TCR-Ts are an emerging modality that enable the identification of
intracellular targets, unlocking biology that was previously inaccessible by cell therapy. Neogene
already have three open INDs, two of which have moved into clinical development.
Finally, we recently announced our collaboration and investment agreement with Cellectis. This
collaboration leverages the Cellectis talent technology, which has been successfully used in the
clinic to solve key challenges with allogeneic CAR-Ts and can precisely edit the genome in vivo to
target the source of the genetically defined disease or tumor. We believe this collaboration will
accelerate our development pipeline and unlock new ways to precisely target a broader range of
cancers, as well as other types of disease.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
Biopharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you, Susan. Next slide, please. Biopharmaceuticals delivered total revenue of $13.6 billion in
the first nine months of 2023, driven by growth of 19% in CVRM and 9% in R&I. Key highlights
from the quarter included another record-breaking performance of Farxiga, now annualizing at
more than $6 billion per year. Farxiga is truly a global brand, with double-digit growth across all
our main regions and the fastest expansion coming from emerging markets outside of China.
In R&I, revenue growth from launches has more than offset the impact of generic competition for
Symbicort in the United States. Emerging markets continues to generate strong growth,
particularly for inhaled products such as Breztri, which grew by 69% in the quarter. And in V&I, the
first commercial sales of Beyfortus generated $67 million of product sales and Alliance revenue
for AstraZeneca. And we also received our final regulatory milestone from our partner Sanofi
following approval by the FDA.Next slide, please. We continue to invest in long-term research that can change clinical practices
and differentiate our medicines. This is a particularly important part of our growth strategy for R&I,
with its portfolio of relatively young and fast-growing medicines with many years of exclusivity
remaining. Combined, the key medicines that will drive R&I revenues grew by 42% year-on-year in
quarter three. This is being driven by a combination of class expansion for modern biological
medicines and inhaled therapies and our share gains within those growing markets.
On the slide here, we have one example. Tezspire has quickly established a leading share in the
first year of its launch in countries such as Germany and Japan. In other examples, Breztri is now
the fastest growing medicine within the triple therapy class. And Fasenra remains the leading
biologic for severe eosinophilic asthma. We anticipate continued growth for Fasenra following
recent positive readouts from MANDARA trial in EGPA and the MIRACLE trial for severe
eosinophilic asthma in China.
The growth in our four key R&I medicines has more than offset the impact of generics on all the
medicines and they now make up nearly half of the therapy area's total revenue. And of course,
we look forward to adding a fifth new medicine to this list when Airsupra launches in 2024. In
CVRM, Farxiga maintained its position as the fundamental treatment in heart failure and CKD, and
it continues to broaden its use among physicians. One of the drivers behind its recent growth has
been the increase in diagnosis rates for CKD. Early diagnosis is an important factor for improving
outcomes for patients, and we hope to see this trend continue, with more patients being
identified at an earlier stage of their disease.
Like R&I, our CVRM portfolio is evolving in a way that can generate long-term sustainable growth,
and after today's blockbuster products inevitably reach the end of their exclusivity period. Our
cohort of development medicines includes Eplontersen for ATTR, and the PDUFA date for our
ATTR-CM submission is in quarter four. Assuming approval, we expect to launch that indication in
early 2024. We are also developing novel molecules that target hyperkalemia, high proteinuria,
and hypertension. These are areas of high unmet medical need in patients with heart failure and
CKD.
For further details of the progress of those programs, I will now hand over to Sharon.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Thanks, Ruud. Next slide, please. I'm delighted to be joining my first quarterly call in my new role,
and would first like to thank Mene and the teams for your continued support and for helping me
settle in.
In the third quarter, we made significant progress on our fixed-dose combinations with Farxiga or
dapagliflozin, which address pockets of high unmet medical need and where we aim to show
significant benefit versus standard of care. Balcinerone is our selective mineralocorticoid receptor
modulator, and in combination with dapagliflozin, we see opportunity to see lower rates of
hyperkalemia in heart failure patients with chronic kidney disease. Preclinical data has shown a
separation of organ protective effects from acute effects on electrolytes, which predicts a
reduced hyperkalemia risk. The Phase 2b MIRACLE Trial aims to confirm the additive benefits of
Balcinerone combined with dapagliflozin, and we will have data later this year.
We have shown significant benefits of zibotentan, our selective endothelin receptor antagonist, in
combination with dapagliflozin in improving fluid dynamics and reducing the risk of adverse kidney
events. We presented data from our Phase 2b ZENITH CKD Trial at the American Society of
Nephrology, which I will cover in the next slide. And finally, we are in advanced stages of planningPhase III trials for Baxdrostat monotherapy in patients with treatment-resistant uncontrolled
hypertension and in combination with dapagliflozin for patients with CKD and hypertension.
Baxdrostat has been shown to be effective at reducing systolic blood pressure without off-target
inhibition of cortisol synthesis. This treatment paradigm would offer a much needed option for
patients with CKD and hypertension. We have already initiated a Phase III trial for zibotentan and
dapagliflozin with plans to initiate baxdrostat monotherapy by the end of the year. We are also in
advanced stages of planning Phase III trials for the other two combinations. Our ambition is to
develop these four potential new medicines to extend cardiorenal protection while addressing
specific symptoms of disease.
Next slide, please. Data from the Phase II ZENITH CKD trial investigating zibotentan and
dapagliflozin in patients with CKD and residual high proteinuria showed clear benefit in reducing
the urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio, a key indicator for kidney function.
Zibotentan improves fluid dynamics and reduces the risk of adverse kidney events. When
combined with dapagliflozin's ability to reduce extravascular volume, these two medicines have
been shown to provide significant benefit over endothelin receptor antagonists alone, where
fluid retention has been a barrier to uptake. The complementary mechanisms deliver superior
efficacy and acceptable tolerability. Both doses were well-tolerated and offer benefits across
glomerular filtration rates, supporting our path to Phase III.
On the right-hand side, our IL-33 inhibitor, tozorakimab, has proven ability to inhibit dual
pathways, ST2 and RAGE/EGFR. This is important, as these independent pathways are involved in
different inflammatory cascades. Dysregulation of ST2 pathway drives airway inflammation, while
dysregulation of RAGE/EGFR pathway is linked to epithelial remodeling and mucus
overproduction, hallmarks of chronic lung diseases.
This September data was presented from the ACCORD-2 trial for patients hospitalized with
COVID-19. Patients receiving tozorakimab had a substantially lower risk of respiratory failure or
death at day 29 versus standard-of-care alone. These data build confidence in tozorakimab and
its mechanism of action in inflammatory lung diseases. The recently dosed MIRANDA trial updates
the range of doses being investigated across our COPD program, which includes the ongoing
OBERON and TITANIA Phase III trials. We will have data from our Phase II FRONTIER-3 trial in
asthma, as well as FRONTIER-4 in COPD, which we hope to present in due course.
Please advance to the next slide. As announced this morning, we have licensed an oral glucagon-
like peptide 1 receptor agonist for the treatment of obesity, type 2 diabetes and other
cardiovascular, renal and metabolic diseases. ECC5004 is a once daily oral small molecule and
preliminary results have shown a potentially differentiated clinical profile. Obesity is a significant
and growing market with over 1 billion patients living with obesity today. The majority of these
patients are suffering with comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes, heart failure, hypertension, and
renal disease.
We are well-placed to address the spectrum of disease associated with obesity with potential
oral combinations in our existing and pipeline medicines. For example, we have recently seen
data on our oral PCSK9, where the product profile is in line with our expectations and is
differentiated with limited food interactions. We are excited about the opportunity for
monotherapy and dyslipidemia, as well as in combination with ECC5004. We are building a
robust portfolio of novel medicines to address a broad range of cardiovascular, renal, and
metabolic diseases.Please move to the next slide. And I will now hand over to Marc, who will cover our rare disease
portfolio.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. Can we go to the next slide, please?
Rare disease delivered total revenue of $5.8 billion in the first nine months of 2023, up 12% year-
over-year, driven by increased patient demand and new launches globally. Ultomiris grew 49% in
the third quarter, driven by patient demand, particularly patient naive to bonded treatment in
generalized myasthenia gravis, as well as successful conversion from Soliris across all indications.
As a consequence of this conversion dynamic, Soliris declined 12%. Beyond C5, both Strensiq and
Koselugo grew 21%, and 81%, respectively, reflecting strong underlying patient demand.
Looking at the regional breakdown in the middle, I want to highlight the performance of
emerging market, which grew 70% in the quarter. Global expansion is an important part of our
strategy, and we continue to benefit significantly from the AstraZeneca footprint. We have now
launched in 64 countries globally, and on track to delivering on our ambition to reach 100
countries by 2030.
Lastly, I wanted to provide some context regarding our C5 franchise across neurological
diseases, myasthenia gravis, as well as NMOSD, as well as on ultra-rare disease, atypical HUS and
PNH. We continue to see neurology indication grow as launches continue globally, and in the case
of MG, the patient population is significantly larger than our ultra-rare diseases. The pie charts on
the right panel represent revenues in the U.S., whereas the two other panels show global sales.
Please advance to the next slide. Last week, we presented Phase II data at the American Society
of Nephrology, demonstrating the clinically meaningful efficacy of Ultomiris in IgA nephropathy.
Ultomiris demonstrated rapid, complete, and sustained complement inhibition, characterized by a
significant and potentially disease-modifying reduction in proteinuria from week four, as well as a
stable mean glomerular filtration rate over 26 weeks.
IgA nephropathy is characterized by the deposition of immune complexities in the kidney that
activates a complement system, which then triggers inflammation and causes glomerular
damage. At the most prevalent primary glomerular disease relative to other rare disease in the
renal area, IgA nephropathy is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality with
approximately half of patients experiencing end-stage kidney disease or deaths.
We see the opportunity for Ultomiris as an add-on on therapy to patients optimized on standard
of care, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors, and SGLT2s. This data not only affirms
the role of complement in IgA nephropathy, it provides confidence for Phase 3, but also
accelerates our ambition to expand Ultomiris into additional indication and broader patient
population.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over the call back to Pascal for his
closing remarks.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Next time, please. I spoke at the heart of this call -- at the start of this call, about
how we are building a pipeline for the future and our aim to deliver sustainable industry-leading
growth for the long term. Our recent acquisition and partnership with Eccogene is a good
example of this, where we hope to deliver differentiated treatments for patients, not onlyaddressing obesity, but developing combinations with other small molecules for a broad range of
cardiovascular, renal, metabolic diseases.
In the near term, we have a rich catalyst path with more than 20 Phase III studies due to readout
before the end of 2024. On this slide, I have called out just a few. These include LAURA, which
Dave spoke to earlier, and DESTINY-Breast06, which has the potential to bring Enhertu one line
earlier for the treatment of hormone receptor positive breast cancer, as well as answer the
question about how low HER2 expression can be for patients still to have meaningful benefit from
this important medicine.
We should also see the first Phase III results of anselamimab in light-chain amyloidosis and a
WAYPOINT trial investigating Tezspire for the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps.
Dato-DXd will be an important medicine in our portfolio, and we are investing heavily behind this
medicine. TROPION-Breast02 will be the next Phase III study for Dato and TNBC. This is thought
to be highly responsible to TROP2-directed therapies.
Before concluding, I would like to welcome Sharon to this call and say how happy I am to have
Sharon on board in in our senior executive team, and I also want to thank Mene for his
contributions over many, many years.
And with that, I will hand back to Andy and we'll move to the Q&A.
`Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pascal. We will now go to the Q&A with all of our executive participants shown here.
(Operator Instructions) We'll try and answer as many questions as we can during the allotted
time, but please do limit the number of questions you ask to allow others a fair chance to
participate.
And with that, we'll move to the Q&A and the first question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks, Andy. The first question is from `Steve Scala, TD Cowen at Cowen. Steve, over to you.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen `
Thank you so much. Two questions. To the extent that the oral GLP-1 will be developed as a
monotherapy for obesity, should that suggest to us that AstraZeneca believes obesity is a
therapeutic opportunity that is here to stay and we are in the early innings despite access and
other challenges that it may present? And secondly, apologies if I missed it, but longer-term
financial targets, both total revenue growth and margin guidance, is that still intact? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. So, maybe Ruud could take the first question, and Sharon, if you want to add
anything, step in. And then the next one will be Aradhana, her favorite question.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `Yes, of course, and thank you so much, Steve, for the question. Yes, it's obvious that we believe
that obesity is here to stay. I think in the prepared remarks of Sharon, she was alluding to the very
substantial number of 1 billion people around the world suffering from overweight.
More importantly, we truly believe that there's a unique opportunity not only to help patients to
lose weight, but also to help the cardiometabolic disorders associated with overweight. And I
think we are in a unique position based on our broad portfolio of products, of course, a lot of
focus on Farxiga, but our other -- many other products in our portfolio, which makes it relatively
easy to combine this in-licensing of the GLP-1 with other products like an oral PCSK9. We are very
pleased to see the first results coming out of our R&D pipeline, and hopefully in the near future
you will see those results. So it makes it very attractive for combination products as well.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Steven, your second question, I think the long-term investment thesis remains very much intact.
So we've talked about the growth ambition that we have sort of in that '21 to '25 timeframe, and
you've seen us deliver on a double-digit CAGR, so that remains intact.
And then post 2025 -- 2025 to 2030, we've said we would be -- we would have industry leading
top-line growth. And what you see today in the pipeline, whether it's the proprietary ADCs or the
bispecifics or some of the new readouts on studies, I think all of that points to our confidence in
that growth rate in the 2025 to '30 timeframe.
As it relates to operating margins, that continues to be a focus for the company and again we've
not given guidance on that. That is our ambition and we continue to improve on our operating
margins as we continue to invest in new product launches and new Phase III studies.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana. The next question is `Gonzalo Artiach, ABG at ABG. Over to you, Gonzalo.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, ABG `
Thank you very much for taking my questions. `Gonzalo Artiach, ABG from ABG Sundal Collier. The first
one is regarding the new drug candidate for diabetes and obesity license from Eccogene. And
this licensing has been announced with quite excitement today. So could you give us some color
on what are the key points on the drug candidate that you consider more interesting to
potentially position the small molecule as best-in-class, specifically given the fact that you have
already an Amylin analog in development?
And my second question is on the results from, also announced on the EMERALD-1 study. I don't
know if you could give us some color here on the plans going forward for this indication. Are you
planning to file on PFS results or will you wait for OS? And also, if I'm not wrong, the study had a
third arm of Imfinzi combined with TACE only without bevacizumab, which is not reported in the
press release today. So I don't know if you could comment on that too. Thank you so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Gonzalo. So maybe Sharon, you could take the first one and Susan, the EMERALD
question.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `Sure, I'd love to. And thank you for the question. I think you heard the excitement in my voice as
we talked about the in-licensing of ECC5004, which we think is a best-in-class, orally bioavailable
GLP-1 receptor agonist. And we are excited about what we view as a differentiated clinical profile
for this molecule. It demonstrates greater tolerability than other molecules in the class with a
lower reported rate of GI adverse events. We also believe that it has a simplified CMC path with
a relative lower COGS relative to the competitors. And we have seen efficacy on par with
competitors in this class, which we think will allow us to deliver an ideal target product profile to
patients.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Amylin, do you want to answer?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. So as you mentioned, also in our portfolio, we have a long-acting amylin, as well as a GLP-1R
glucagon dual agonist. So we are targeting both incretin and non-incretin pathways as we identify
a robust cardiometabolic profile that we think will serve the complexity of disease.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah, sure. So EMERALD-1 is a -- as you say, a three-arm study, 600 patients were randomized to
TACE alone plus placebo, TACE plus Imfinzi, and then TACE plus Imfinzi plus bevacizumab. So it's
in local regional hepatocellular carcinoma, and it's exciting that this is the first positive Phase 3
study in this setting. I would say to your question about the Imfinzi plus TACE arm, of course, it's
important for us to show the potential for contribution of components.
And in terms of your question on filing on PFS, so we're excited that what we've got is a clinically
meaningful improvement in progression-free survival, but given this is a local-regional setting, it's
always important to have data on overall survival. So, as is typical, what we'll do is we'll discuss
with regulatory authorities. It may well be possible to file on PFS and then wait for OS to be
supplemented during the follow-up period and during the review period.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Suzanne. The next question is from `Andrew Baum, Citi with Citi. Andrew, over to you.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Thank you. A couple of questions. First to Sharon. Could you quantify and characterize any liver
enzyme elevations you saw in the Phase 1 with ECC5004? And then second for Ruud. With the
removal of the AMP cap from Medicaid in 2024, could you quantify for us the net impact on your
revenues associated once you've taken out mitigating defensive measures. Many thanks.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. So I'll jump in with the answer regarding liver toxicity in ECC5004. In preclinical studies, we
saw no evidence of liver toxicity and in the Clinical Phase 1 study to date, we have seen no
evidence of elevated ALT or AST, which we think is an additional feature that helps us
differentiate this molecule from other competitors in the class.A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
So I'll take the second one, Pascal, here. So regarding your question, Andrew, about the impact of
AMP cap, you have seen in the presentation of Pascal that we are very pleased with the very
strong U.S. growth and that's primarily driven by volume growth, including for Farxiga. Yes, we are
expecting an impact of AMP cap in 2024, but we have very specific brand strategies in place.
Overall, we think the impact is manageable and it will be factored in the guidance we are going
to give for 2024.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. Next question is from `Sachin Jain, Bank of America at Bank of America.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
Thanks for taking my questions. I kind of have a couple for Ruud -- sorry, for Dave and then one
for Aradhana? So Dave, capivasertib launched this year. It's not an asset you talk about much. I
wonder if you could just comment your optimism for the assets and size of the initial indication.
Secondly, on Enhertu, I wonder if you could just flesh out the comments on the slowdown in the
U.S. on the DB04 bolus and implications for growth of the asset into '24.
And then just one for Aradhana. I know you're not going to like the question, but any early
thoughts for '24 growth outlook? Consensus has '24 EPS faster than '23. I'm not asking for a
guide, but just pushes and pulls and the ability to accelerate growth in '24 relative to '23. Thank
you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Dave?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Great. Sachin, I'm going to take the questions that you asked me just in reverse order. So if I start
first with Enhertu. When we take a look at both DB03 and DB04, we are seeing continued
opportunity for growth across the globe on both of those. On DB04 specifically, we had seen
increase or a bolus effect at launch where patients in multiple lines of therapy, so in multiple lines
of post-chemo, coming on to Enhertu just really due to a lack of options for patients in these later
line advanced stages.
What I'm pleased to say, and I think this is actually a really important aspect of Enhertu, the
duration of therapy that those patients were able to stay on Enhertu was actually longer than we
had even thought. So the bolus actually has been around, if you will, as part of the TRxs for a
longer period of time than we had originally anticipated it might be. We continue to see nice
growth in now the incident share. So I think the DB04 continues to grow and will be moving based
upon growth in two factors.
One will be incident new patient share growth, but then also DoT, which I expect will continue to
grow. That DoT comment, if I could just for a second, I think also holds for DB03, where you may
recall that in 03, we had 18 months of duration of therapy within the study itself, but we know that
more than a third of patients were staying on therapy for greater than 24 months. So we're
continuing to see the 03 DoTs extend, and I think that that's a positive piece within that.
As we take a look at capi, I share enthusiasm that capivasertib could be a very important part ofthoughts around the CDP that goes beyond that. I do think that it's most likely that we will see
biomarker labels across the globe, though we do believe that the benefit in the ITT population
was an important one. But there's a pretty significant number of people with breast cancer who
can continue to benefit from endocrine-based therapies in that advanced setting, and biomarker
is still 40% to 50% of that marketplace. So it's a sizable opportunity, and we are looking forward,
hopefully any day now, to an FDA announcement and approval.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Before we move to -- thanks, Dave. Before we move to 2024, maybe, Susan, you could comment
on other indications that we are considering for capi.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah, sure. So I do think this is an opportunity in a number of settings where the AKT pathway is
important in limiting benefit, either in combination with endocrine therapy in both breast and
prostate cancer, but also in combination with chemotherapy as well. So as well as the 291 study,
we have CAPItello290 in triple negative breast cancer. CAPItello292 is in combination with
palbociclib and other CDK4/6 inhibitor potential as well as hormonal therapy backbone in the first
line. So it's got Faslodex as the hormone therapy backbone in the first line in the CAPItello292.
And then in prostate cancer, we have CAPItello281 where capivasertib is combined with
abiraterone and again, that's focused in P10 deficient hormone sensitive prostate cancer based
on the Phase II study there, but we also have a combination with docetaxel and again the AKT
pathway limits the response to chemotherapy and limits the apoptotic response to
chemotherapy. So that's also an important study and based on the PROpel data set, there's
activity again across the spectrum of patients both with and without P10 deficiency in that setting.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Aradhana?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So, thanks for the question. Obviously, we won't give guidance for 2024 on this call. We'll have to
wait for early next year for that. We're actually going through our budget process right now, and
as that concludes towards the year end, and we present that to the board, and then we'll give
our guidance next year. Some of the things that, obviously, you need to take into account, some
of the pushes and pulls in the 2024 and mid-term, including currency movements, as you know,
we've had very strong growth momentum with our underlying brands, but then we also have
launches for Airsupra and Eplontersen that Ruud mentioned that we'll be investing behind. And
then the Phase III opportunities, as well as some of these new BD opportunities, including the
current product that we talked on Eccogene. So, lots of moving parts and we look forward to
talking to you about that in early 2024.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe some quick addition to 2024 actually. Going back to the question Andrew asked about
AMP cap, since the announcement of this new regulation, we've really come up with very modest
price increases always below inflation. So, of course, the calculation goes back many years, but
we still believe that we will have an impact that is substantially lower than many other companies.
And as Ruud said, it can be certainly managed in the overall forecasting budget, forecasting for
the company.So, the next question is, `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research at Wolfe.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A couple of questions. On Tagrisso, Floor 2 was in the New England Journal last night.
Editorial fairly positive based on PFS benefit, but really said it kind of comes down to how survival
plays out. So the question for you is your view on whether it hits on survival in a clinically
meaningful way. And then the second question is on obesity. Just further business development
from here, it seems like if you're going to push into this space with external assets like today's
announcement, maybe you go all in and do more external deals. There are other assets out
there where you take a much broader portfolio approach. Or conversely, is this kind of one and
done and this is going to be your main asset from the outside world? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tim. So the first question, maybe we could start with Susan and then Dave, I think you
could also comment on the commercial relevance of FLAURA2, which we believe is important for
many patients. And then the second question, Sharon, you could take. And anything you want to
add, Ruud also, please, jump in.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So, progression-free survival benefit that we've seen is very clinically meaningful with FLAURA2,
and, of course, the comparator is something that's already proven overall survival benefit in the
first-line setting of lung cancer, which is monotherapy Tagrisso. So, I think what we're hoping to
see is, maintenance of that improvement in PFS being carried through to the PFS2, and a trend in
OS, I think, is very reasonable to expect. But, obviously, as the data mature, we'll continue to look
at the OS endpoint.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thanks, Susan. And, Tim, I think maybe just to build off of this, I think there's also an important
tangential question just in general around the importance of overall survival as there's
consideration for choices. And I think that you referenced the editorial. I think you hear this in the
editorial, but also we hear this from the community as well, that in selecting a treatment, the
benefit-risk profile inclusive, of course, of efficacy, the side effect profile, as well as the
administration are all important factors that will come into this. So within that context, FLAURA2 is
certainly something that we have heard very much as an option for those patients who would
benefit from intensification, brain mets, L858R, and on top of that, clinicians are pretty well-
versed in the side effects that are associated with chemo, and there's the ability to discontinue
the chemo on FLAURA2 if approved, and continue on with the monotherapy. But we also hear
and know that the monotherapy is an option that we anticipate will continue to be a really
important option for the majority of patients, all or all greater than three years overall survival
demonstrated, proven, and understood in a tolerability profile that's well managed.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks very much, David. Sharon?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure, and thank you for the question about continuing to build our portfolio. I hope that this
morning I'm conveying a story that we continue to build a strong cardiovascular, renal, andhypertension, chronic kidney disease, and heart failure. So where we see opportunities to further
strengthen that portfolio, we will move forward with a sense of urgency. We never comment on
business development deals that are in progress or are future opportunities, but we continue to
scan the landscape and understand what might fit best into this growing portfolio.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sharon. And maybe let me add that biopharma, cardiovascular in particular, remains very
important to this company. And for the little internal friendly competition we have, we'll beat Dave
by $100 million in the first nine months of the year, so very important part of the company.
Anything you want to add on that, Ruud?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
No, just to reinforce that, of course, we are excited about our internal pipeline also in obesity, it
was a long-acting Amylin, the GLP-1 glucagon duo agonist. But as Sharon said, we're always
looking around for something what can add value, is making strategically sense, but all in all, I
think we're very pleased with the progress we are making in our pipeline.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Next question is `Emily Field, Barclays at Barclays. Emily, over to you.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask about volrustomig, actually. I saw you started
the Phase III in cervical and lung, and you also had renal data at ESMO. Just, how broad of a Phase
III program are you intending on running? How many tumor types? Secondly, when could we see
the combination arm from the TLA4 study that combines volrustomig with Dato-DXd? And then
my last one, just on how much broader in terms of addressable patients would LAURA add to the
Tagrisso patient pool? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Emily. Susan, could you go over the first two volrustomig questions. And Dave, you
could address the LAURA question?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. So, again, I would say that we see the positioning of both volrustomig and rilvegostomig as
being appropriate in different segments of the patient population that are currently treated with
checkpoint inhibitors.
So I think volrustomig has a place where CTLA-4 inhibition particularly adds value, and those are
the areas that we will concentrate on. I also think that there's emerging data from rilvegostomig,
which we'll probably share at Congress next year. And again, please note that we have actually
started our first Phase III trial with rilvegostomig building on the great data that we saw with saw
with TOPAZ in the biliary tract setting. So I think there's great potential for this. We will -- we are
examining both rilve and volrustomig combinations with our ADCs in different tumor types, and
we will, again, probably share updates on those in the next 12 to 24 months.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `Great. On LAURA, Emily, just in terms of the opportunity here, let me start with the headline,
which is I think this is a sizable opportunity and an important chance for us to, if positive and
approved, be able to meaningfully catalyze the growth within the area.
We know from the PACIFIC, work that we've done that there's a significant number of patients
that are diagnosed that are stage III unresectable. We also know that many of these patients are
not getting, for very understandable reasons, treatment with who are EGFR mutated with IO and
so there's a very good opportunity that's there and I think that this will be probably the most
significant Tagrisso growth driver that I would see as incremental coming into the near-term and
we look forward to next year's readout.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Important growth driver across the world, very much of course in Japan where this EGFR
mutations are common. And I think in China also beyond the growth potential also very nice
differentiation in a market as you know, is very, very competitive, the EGFR market is very
competitive. So clearly an important addition from a differentiation viewpoint and promotional
opportunity for the Chinese team.
Next question is `James Gordon, JP Morgan, JP Morgan.
Q - `James Gordon, JP Morgan `
Hello. `James Gordon, JP Morgan, JP Morgan. Thanks for taking the questions. First question was on the oral
GLP-1, and the question was do you think the product is going to be competitive on weight loss
versus other orals that are well ahead in terms of development? Or is the differentiation going to
be much more about the combinability with other oral agents? And if so, which of the combos is it
that you're most excited about? That's the first question, please.
The second question is the IL-33. And I think you've started a new higher-dose COPD Phase III,
the MIRANDA trial. So did you do this new higher-dose trial that we now see in Phase II that says
that the first two studies, OBERON and TITANIA are lower doses, are perhaps under-dosed? So
should we be less confident in them? I think we've got to wait for this third trial.
And if I could just squeeze in the clarification on that, I think you mentioned potential launch next
year. So is the expectation that that would be the launch in both lung and breast cancer so that
you file both of those by the end of this year and they can launch both of those simultaneously
next year?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, James. I'm really so happy that I've delegated the task to Andy to ask people to ask only
one question at a time.
So maybe, Sharon, you could take the first one. And again, Ruud, if you have anything you want to
add and then the second one also, actually, and then Susan will take the Dato question.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Yeah. Thank you for the questions. So your first was, do we believe that this ECC5004 is
competitive on weight loss? And yes, we do, based on the Phase I data that we saw, it lines up
very favorably with competitors in this class, which was very encouraging data that gave us
confidence in our ability to drive forward this molecule and see a differentiated target product
profile in the clinic.You also asked about which of the combinations we are most excited about, and that's a little bit
like asking me to choose a favorite child, because we have such a broad portfolio that has the
potential to combine with this molecule. That said, thinking about Farxiga and our ability to
manage hypertension driven by obesity is a very appealing combination. Thinking about our
emerging oral PCSK9 with very encouraging data in Phase I, we see an opportunity to limit
dyslipidemia while managing obesity in overweight patients. And also thinking about how we're
managing diabetes and the associated comorbidities gives us opportunities to also consider
other mechanisms for managing heart failure and renal disease in combination with ECC5004. So
we will be testing out this molecule both in preclinical and clinical studies moving forward and
identifying the most favorable combinations for patients.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
So nothing to add. Are you also going to take the question about TOZO or do I need to
comment on this?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
So James, a good question. I think, of course, as always, time will tell and the data will tell which
dose is the most effective one. But we truly believe that we have a drug which is effective. The
600 is now tested in the MIRANDA trial. Let me remind you that also the competition is testing
different dosing regimens and see it also a little bit as an insurance premium. We think that the
300 will be effective, but of course, we try to push the effectiveness to the highest level, so
hopefully both doses will work, but time will tell when the data will read out.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe going back to the oral GLP-1, James, first of all, one of the two oral agents that maybe you
have in mind is a twice a day agent. This one will be once a day, and as Sharon explained earlier,
we believe that the tolerability profile would be good, but the important thing to keep in mind is
obesity by itself is one thing, but I think the more sustainable part of that market is really obesity
patients with complicating factors, people who have cardiometabolic risk factors. And so, in that
scenario, really, combinations are critical. I mean, if you look at kidney disease, the Farxiga results
are really exciting. They're great, but patients still see their kidney function decline over time. So
we talk a lot about combinations in cancer, but I also think that in many of those cardiovascular
metabolic conditions, combination treatment will be the future, so a combination for kidney
disease, combination for the control of hypertension, possibly combination for -- well, actually,
combination for the management of hyperlipidemia. So that's where we believe that our pipeline
also can -- is best positioned, can play a role. So with that, maybe, Dave, do you want to -- or
Susan, maybe cover the Dato question?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah, sure. So in the United States, we don't have to wait for bundling the two trials together. So
we'll file those two separately. In Europe, it's better to bundle the two applications together. But I
think there's a good opportunity for depending on the review timelines for the review to be
completed during the course of next year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Susan. So the next one is `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken at Handelsbanken. Mattias, over to you.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken `
Thank you very much. A couple please. The first is with regard to the oral GLP-1. (inaudible) expect
in a (inaudible) weight conversion potential as well as adverse immune profile for obesity
patients? I guess I'm asking how long into '24 or perhaps even '25, depending on the duration of
sub-trial will the outside world have to wait before we can judge today's comments around the
differentiated profile? And then secondly, in the editorial report, do you think, for instance, that
patients admitted in China where lung cancer patients and physicians were asked for their
preference of a monotherapy or a combination therapy survey, which showed that close to 80%
preference for the monotherapy regimen despite the combination was said in the survey to
prolong time to recur. And so, I would be curious to hear if the company has any similar patient or
physician surveys based on other geographies? Again, trying to think of the mono versus
combination trials in this setting. Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So, thanks. Thanks, Mattias. You were breaking up a little bit. The first question, did you get fully,
Sharon? Otherwise, maybe --
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
It sounds like it was around the timelines for the ECC5004 clinical studies, but maybe if you could
repeat the question one more time?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Can you repeat the question, the first one, actually? The second one was FLAURA2, China, and
80% preference for monotherapy. Is it true also in other geographies? But the first one, if you
could repeat.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken `
Sure. I just have a question on how long Phase II trials in obesity is reasonable to expect before
the market could judge today's comments that you have a differentiated profile. We see Phase 2
trials in obesity short as five weeks up to 16 plus. So I'm just trying to frame the expectations for
when we can get data in obese patients which we have yet to see.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks. So Dave, do you want to take the FLAURA2 questions.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, I'd be happy to. So Mattias, I've spoken to the discussions that we've had with physicians
both in the academic but also now especially within the community setting post both WCLC and
ESMO. And I think that what you see in the editorial is very consistent with what we are hearing
across the globe. And I think that just maybe if I put into context within this, I mean, if you look at
the U.S., you've got 70 plus percent of non-small cell lung cancer patients who are with advanced
disease being treated in the community. And I think that within that community context, the
benefit-risk that I had spoken to before of efficacy, oral convenience, tolerability profile that's
really well understood and considered to be one that's well able to be managed, this issomething that really does result in the monotherapy being, I think, really kind of the first part of
call, that first, real opportunity to look at.
We do also know, and I think that this is something that comes through as well in the commentary,
that there are patients who can benefit from a more intensified approach to it. And within that
context, I think that the editorial and others comment on that that within this context, we expect
FLAURA2, if approved, to be an option for certain patients that is going to be put on the table.
But it's going to be put on the table in the context of multiple criteria for making the decision, not
just based upon a single efficacy endpoint.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Sharon?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. So your question regarding timelines for clinical development for ECC5004, obviously front
of mind for all of us. Thank you for the question. So as I mentioned earlier, we are in Phase I now
and we expect to have Phase 1 data in hand by the end of this year. And so, we'll be moving
rapidly towards Phase II. We expect to initiate two Phase II studies, one in obesity and one in type
2 diabetes by the end of 2024. You are correct that these studies can vary in length, but we really
want to be able to generate the outcome data that we think will add value to this program. So we
are planning for studies that will span in the neighborhood of 18 months with an interim analysis
that will give us an early look at the data and will give us some confidence in our differentiation
strategy.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sharon. Next one is `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Mark, over to you.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah. Thank you, Pascal. Two questions. The first one is on your bispecific T cell engages, drugs
like volrustomig. You talked in the press release around the potential to replace first generation
checkpoint inhibitors. So how should we think about the magnitude of benefit you expect to see
versus Keytruda, for example, in the evolved lung O2 trial? So what level of superiority are you
seeking?
And the second one is on your smart [ph] chemotherapy platform, your organic platform AZ0133.
We should get some data sets, I guess, for assets such as the B7H4, maybe BGFR-CMET in 2024.
So could you give an update in terms of when we should see these data and when you expect to
potentially move into pivotal trials with these assets? Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark. So I think the first question was the bispecific immune checkpoint inhibitor of
volrustomig. Susan, you could take this one. And the second one is also for you in terms of the
B7H4.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah. So just to be clear, the bispecifics are -- bispecifics PD-1 and CTLA-4, you said T-cell
engages. We do have T-cell engages in our portfolio, but I think we're talking about volrustomig
and rilvegostomig. So for volrustomig in terms of the eVOLVE-02 study, you can imagine in thecontext of first-line non-small cell lung cancer that a clinically meaningful benefit is something
where you're looking for some months of improvement on medium PFS and often an
improvement of the hazard ratio with that tail. And, of course, CTLA4 inhibition is particularly
potent at producing that tail inhibition. So I can't tell you what the design criteria for the study are,
but you'll see the size of the study, and I'm sure you can work that out. So -- but we're confident
based on the data that we've seen, we've got the potential to improve on it in the patient
population where checkpoint inhibitors don't currently work as well, which is clearly that lower end
of the PD-L1 expression level.
And then for B7H4, our lead ADC, this is an important molecule for us because, first of all, it's the
first molecule that's come out of our proprietary ADC discovery platform. So we've got a
proprietary linker and topo warhead on that compound. You saw some data presented for other
B7H4 targeted ADCs at ESMO. So I think this is going to be an important target. It's
overexpressed in parts of ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, breast cancer, and some biliary
tract cancer. We're exploring cohorts in multiple of those cancers and we look forward to sharing
some data next year on this. But we're excited by what we've seen so far and we will obviously --
because there's a competitive landscape over there, we're going to move at pace. Thank you.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. The next one is `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel at Stifel. Eric, over to you.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel `
Thank you, Pascal. Two questions, please. First, you're presenting the catalyst flow for 2024, and
probably you pick just a few of those. So just because SERENA-6 is not on it, just to confirm that
it's still on schedule, we're hearing from physicians that it may come quite early, and maybe as
early as the turn of the year. So just to get your level of excitement and see that there is no
decrease here. The second question is about V&I. We're hearing a lot about the investment,
significant investment to come in CVRM, adding to oncology. And so, you made a quick and
pragmatic investment here around COVID vaccine and antibody. How much do Astra need V&I?
And how much is it distraction now to oncology, CVRM, and rare disease in terms of resource
allocation? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Eric. So maybe, Susan, you could take the first one.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So again, we don't guide on interims, the SERENA-6 outcome is currently guided for beyond
2024. I would just say that our chemis estrogen [ph] trials overall are going really well, and we're
pleased with the investigative feedback we've had from the investigators who are participating in
these trials.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. So maybe the V&I, let me just make a couple of comments, and I could ask
Iskra also to jump in. It is not a distraction. I mean, our focus really has been and continues to be
on antibodies, in particular antibodies for patients who are immunocompromised. We work on3152 and we do believe that there is an unmet need out there that is not addressed and needs
to be addressed. The mortality in patients who are hematology patients, transplant patients,
patients who are immunocompromised, is very high actually. 30%, 40% chance of dying if you
have a blood cancer and you are infected with COVID. I'm not even talking about being
hospitalized, the risk of dying if you are hospitalised, I'm talking about the risk of dying if you are
infected.
So this is very high and there is a need for those patients. In fact, we know many countries are
ready to order 3152 if it works. So, of course as always, we cannot guarantee success in anything
we do, but we believe there is an opportunity for 3152 if it does work. And we are working on
other antibodies and for vaccines, we have a very focused strategy on new technologies that for
now we really haven't disclosed because we need more data. And the last thing I would say is
that there is actually a synergy with our other activities. If you think of hematology cancer again,
doctors, hematologists, they need, they want to protect their patients against COVID, especially
during periods of increasing COVID infections.
So for us, it's really a nice door opener if we have an antibody to offer, a door opener for the
team that is promoting QALQ-1s, and the same is true for immune -- for immune diseases. So
there is a clear commercial strategy and from a resource viewpoint, overall it's a limited
investment, certainly not a distraction.
Iskra, if you want to comment a little bit more on where we are and what we do.
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice President, Vaccines and Immune Therapies `
Thanks, Pascal, for the comments. So just to add, I think, looking beyond the immunocompromise,
and I think you described the unmet need very clearly. I mean, you can also see an
unprecedented demand. We see with the Beyfortus that we are commercializing together with
our partner Sanofi, and there is a clear unmet need with the RSV in the infant population. So I
really believe that we can build and leverage on our in-house knowhow of how to build long-
acting monoclonal antibodies that definitely has a need across the different populations.
And then also, I think, Pascal, as you mentioned, looking at kind of what is next generation
platform and how we can potentially contribute to bringing the new and differentiated vaccine is
something that we are constantly focused on. And obviously, I will be very pleased to share more
information with you in the due course.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Maybe last point is Vaxzevria was really a different story. It was really to help, help the world
deal with this terrible pandemic. But outside of this, what we focus on its products where we can
actually be differentiated and address unmet needs. And of course, it's very true for these
antibodies. And on the vaccine side, we would actually only go into large investments if we
believe we have something that is truly differentiated.
The next one is `Richard Parkes, Exane BNP Paribas at BNP.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Hopefully, you can hear me okay. I've got one for Aradhana
and one for Susan. Firstly, Aradhana, just on R&D spend pressures as you go into that budgeting
negotiation later this year, you've had an incredible number of new phase restarts this year.
You're also investing in new technology platforms, yet you managed to keep R&D spend growthto mid-single digits, I think, in the third quarter. So I'm just wondering if you could talk about the
moving parts of how that growing pipeline can be funded, how much of it can be funded through
reinvestment as you end kind of previous Phase III trials versus need for a step-up in that R&D
spend growth trajectory into next year? And I ask the question partly because we've seen other
companies with surprising investors negatively with a step-up in R&D spend. So that's the first
one.
And then secondly for Susan, I can see you're starting a Phase III of the part one selective inhibitor
in prostate cancer. But obviously, there's a huge potential for that drug if you can unlock potential
for synergy with an ADC with a DNA damaging payload. So I just wondered if you could talk about
your enthusiasm and optimism over that program and potential more broadly and what we might
see, get some insight into that in your plans. Thank you.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So, thanks for the question. In terms of R&D, we obviously go through a very detailed process
that is both bottoms up and top down. And I think we've obviously said in the past that we expect
R&D to be somewhere in the low 20s percentage of revenue. And what that helps us with is
actually provide some discipline in terms of which projects to prioritize and so forth.
Also, I would say as we have started a number of Phase III studies, but when you look at Phase III
studies, there's also been a number of studies that we have -- we're tapering down or we've
read out and so forth. So it's a constant phase and all the Phase III expense doesn't come
necessarily in one year, right? It's phased over the entire study period. We start a number of
Phase III studies, for example, this year, but some of that expense -- a lot of that expense also
goes in study starts, in the site recruitment, in the clinical study supply, et cetera . So, I think we
manage that and we provide that -- the top-down discipline. But it is -- it's a tough situation. And I
think if you asked Mark or Susan or Sharon, they'll always tell me we don't have enough money
for all the exciting projects that we have. So we try to maintain that balance.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Aradhana. Maybe a couple of additional points. First of all, beyond the prioritization that
Aradhana covered very well and the use of technology to make ourselves more productive, we
also have launched and we are implementing a redeployment of our footprint and so we are, for
instance, leveraging Canada, Toronto in North America, Barcelona in Europe. So we've gone
through -- we are going through a process by which we locate in the strategic centers jobs that
should be located there and then we have a near shore and a far shore strategy so we are
leveraging our sites in Guadalajara and also in India for some roles. So we are doing all sorts of
things that help us manage the cost of R&D. We have been internalizing the conduct of our clinical
trials. First of all, we believe it will deliver better execution of our trials if we do it with our own
clinical teams, but also it reduces our cost when we internalize. So ultimately, we stick to what we
said before which is low 20s R&D on revenues. I know some people have said, what does it mean
if low 20s is low 20s? If we meant more than this, we probably would say mid-20s or something
like this. So it's low 20s, and I just want to reconfirm this is our ongoing target.
PARP I, Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah. So thanks for the question about saruparib. This is another program that I'm really excited
about. I think we've learned a lot about the right patient populations to treat with PARP inhibitors
during the development of Lynparza. So saruparib has this improved profile, which enables clearimprovement and tolerability. It enables you to hit the target even harder, and I think that has the
potential to lead to actually better efficacy than we see with olaparib.
So it's great to see the first Phase III trial starting. You'll see more coming. And I think one
interesting area is the potential for this to have combinations. So saruparib in combination with
ADCs is absolutely something that we're exploring and we're encouraged by the early data that
we've got, but it's a little early to be sharing those externally at the moment. Probably it'll be
another 12 months before we share those, I'd expect.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Susan. Next question is from `Christopher Uhde, SEB at SEB. Christopher, over to you.
Christopher, we can't hear you.
Q - `Christopher Uhde, SEB `
Can you hear me now?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, perfect. Go ahead.
Q - `Christopher Uhde, SEB `
All right, great. So my first question is for Sharon. Now that you've taken over, I think we have a
pretty good idea of what the strategy is for CVRM. But perhaps you could talk a little bit about
what the R&I sort of big picture strategy is overall, and in terms of -- so R&D strategy and
integrating that with commercial strategy and how to execute it on it. And then my second
question is on Farxiga. And maybe here, I'd like to start by congratulating Mene and his team,
even though he's not here today, on a successful readout for zibotentan. I guess it's his brainchild
and arguably the zenith of his achievements at AZ. But so small percentage of patients that are
eligible for SGLT to actually get it across the -- each approved indication. Is the NRX split still even
across the indicated patient groups and how much gas is left in the tank in the U.S. and EU across
those indications?
We've got DAPA-MI top lining positively. So how much impact can that have? And beyond it, are
there any remaining steps you can take to convince prescribers or payers that a larger proportion
of patients should be adding on SGLT2 on top of metformin or statin or BP meds or whatever,
before you start to bring Farxiga combos into the picture? So like are there specific patient
subgroups, for example? And as a logical follow through, when the SGLT2s lose exclusivity, do
you anticipate any substantial step up in breadth of use? What might that look like? And does that
impact how you view the opportunity for the novel Farxiga combo regimens like zibotentan?
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So Sharon, R&I?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Yeah. So I'm in a very lucky position of stepping into a very strong biopharma organization with a
foundation that was built over many years by Mene, and I'm grateful for both the incredible
portfolio that was established as well as the extraordinary team of scientific leaders that I have
the privilege of working with.So as we look forward to how we're going to continue to grow and invest in R&I, let's think a little
bit about the successes that are already beginning to drive value for the portfolio. So looking
towards Saphnelo, we have three Phase III studies ready to initiate. In fact, the DAISY study in
sclerosis just dosed, so that's a Phase III study already initiated with two more, which we expect
to launch early next year. So we're very proud of the potential of Saphnelo, which was put in place
through internal discovery and development programs, and we're beginning to see delivery of
that promise.
Also, a strong contender in our portfolio is tozorakimab, which, as we mentioned earlier, is
differentiated for the competitors because it is able to inhibit both the SD2 and the RAGE-EGFR
pathways. And so, we really see a wonderful opportunity there to target the breadth of
respiratory disease and to be able to offer a better outcome for patients. So as we think about
how we continue to build on our success and move forward, as we've mentioned, we're very
interested in growing our footprint in treatments for immune-mediated diseases. And this is a
continued build within the group as we expand both our capabilities, as well as our capacity, and
we think about the new modalities that will best serve patients moving forward.
So we continue to expand our pipeline and to think about what the treatments of the future may
be. And for a hint of the way we are thinking, Susan told you earlier about investments in cell
therapy and the promise that those have demonstrated in oncology. And we have seen early
clinical data published by academic experts who have demonstrated the promise for cell therapy
in patients with autoimmune disease. So we'll continue to explore these capabilities and evaluate
the potential for that within our portfolio. I hope that gives you some color that will also help us
share our excitement and growth in respiratory and immunology.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
And let's not forget, before I come to the Farxiga question, there's still a medical high unmet
medical need in our core indications in asthma and COPD. Despite all the progress we have
made in the last few decades, but many patients are still suffering from severe exacerbation,
lung damage, so there is still a very big untapped opportunity in those diseases.
Coming back to your question regarding the growth potential in -- of Farxiga, it's still very
substantial, Christopher. Just to give you some numbers, currently almost one-third of the new
prescriptions are going to type-2 diabetes, but more than two-thirds are going to CKD and heart
failure. And the penetration in those two diseases is at the moment, despite all our efforts and
also from the competition, is only 15% to 20%, and hence there is still a very substantial upside
moving forward. Very pleasing to see that most of the guidelines around the world have now
adjusted their guidelines and the SDLT2 are now one of the fundamental pillars of the treatment
of heart failure patients and the same is true for chronic kidney disease. So in that sense, the
volume opportunity is very substantial.
Then your question about LoE and let me reiterate again, we have a very, let's say, fragmented
period of LoEs with Farxiga, 2026 in the United States, but only in 2028 in Europe. And beyond
that, we see very strong growth in the emerging markets, where in some of those markets,
roughly 10 markets, we have already lost LoE, but still the brand is still growing very fast. So I'm
not going to say that there's no impact of LoE. Of course, there will be an impact of LoE, but
clearly the combination products hopefully will compensate for that loss in the second part of the
decade. And we remain very bullish about the growth potential of the products, let's say, in the
next few years.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Ruud. And Mene is not with us in the room, but he's keeping an eye on us. So he
reminded us that we still have a number of readouts, last cycle measurement opportunities in R&I
with Teze, with FASENRA, with Tozo. So still quite a lot to come in R&I, in particular respiratory.
So we move to the next question. `Simon Baker, Redburn at Redburn. Can I ask -- we only have a few
minutes left, so can I ask everybody to ask one question, if you don't mind? Over to you, Simon.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
Thanks, Pascal, and I'll behave myself. On returning to Emily's question, for you, Susan, the current
use of CTLA-4 is really defined by acceptable levels of toxicity, and if your bispecific is better
tolerated, that broadens the scope. And I was specifically thinking about lung cancer and PD-L1
greater than 50%. If all of Lung02 is focusing on less than 50%, are you planning to look at PD-L1
high as well? Thanks so much.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thanks for the question. So I think in the PD-L1 high group, this is the place where at the moment,
with based on the current data that we have, that the addition of TIGIT seems to make a
particular difference in that setting. So, we'll obviously look at the emerging data across our
bispecific portfolio. But what we're doing in terms of the initial Phase III trials that you're seeing is
focusing on the area where we think and get that added benefit from CTLA-4 inhibition.
It is better tolerated than the just co-administration of the two antibodies separately, rather than
in one drug where you've only binding CTLA-4 in the presence of PD-L1. However, if you
compare, you are still getting some increase in toxicity. So, I think we've got a much, much lower
rate of the diarrhea and colitis that you see with CTLA-4 inhibition, but we have still seen some
increases in liver enzyme elevation and that's really what we try to optimize for when we're
optimizing for the dose at 750. So we have an acceptable rate of drug discontinuation and the
holidays based on that.
So, I think we still need to make sure that we're optimizing the patient population that we're
choosing for the relevant checkpoint inhibition profile, and that's what we're aiming to do across
our bispecific portfolio.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
This is the beauty of this portfolio. Rilvegostomig is a more logical option for PD-L1 high, Simon,
and the CTLA-4 combination, volrustomig is a better option for PD-L1 low in lung cancer.
So we move to the next one, `Rajeev Kumar, HSBC at HSBC. Rajeev, over to you.
Q - `Rajeev Kumar, HSBC `
Hi, there. Just one question on the long-term financial target. You indicated that you want to
achieve faster than the industry growth. Can you run us through how you're thinking about capital
allocation today in terms of, for example, you highlighted the GLP-1 acquisition or you've just
started trials on bispecific, that will position you to be there. What is the capital allocation
algorithm you're following today that gets you to an answer, A, whether there is -- you won't get
success in everything, but what gives you the confidence that you can deliver that industry-
leading growth?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Rajeev. Aradhana had to step out for a minute, so let me address your question. First of
all, we don't give long-term guidance. The only thing I will say about the long-term is what we've
said before remains our goal, so there's not much change there. And in terms of a specific
question about capital allocation, as Aradhana said a bit earlier during her comments, the
priorities for us are to invest in our pipeline, reduce debt and pay our dividends. So there's no
change there, and suddenly we want to continue building our pipeline.
But each time we build a pipeline through, be it deals like we've just announced this morning, it's
additional growth. We believe that we can deliver industry-leading growth from '25 to '30 and
beyond based on what we have today. So anything we add actually will help us grow even more
during that period and beyond. So, we're always looking at today, tomorrow and the day after,
the day after being new technologies like cell therapy that we want to apply to oncology, but also
immune diseases, as Sharon mentioned, T-cell engagers, gene therapy for rare diseases, and
the midterm, of course, which is what I call tomorrow, is actually a large Phase III pipeline. So that's
really what we try to do.
The next question is `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank, sorry, I'm rushing a little bit from Deutsche Bank, but
we only have a few minutes, and I'd like to give everybody a chance to ask their question.
Emmanuel, over to you.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Hi, Pascal.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
This is `Luisa Hector, Berenberg from Berenberg actually.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
I am not able to unmute it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. It's not what the screen that I have in front of me says, but it's great to hear you always.
(Multiple Speakers) Go ahead, Luisa. And then we'll --
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
(inaudible) Emmanuel.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, go ahead Luisa. And then we'll look back to Emmanuel, if that's okay.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `So on Dato at ESMO, it became clear that this drug is absolutely delivering on the promise of
ADCs in the EGFR subgroup of lung cancer. I just wondered why you think this is and whether you
need to see any more data before you could consider starting Phase 3 in frontline EGFR in
combination with Tagrisso? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, so it's a good question for Susan.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah, sure. Thanks for the question. So yes, in the EGFR subgroup, we did see a really good
activity with a hazard ratio of 0.38 in that group in the randomized study of TL01. So we've also
got data from the ORCHARD platform study looking at the combinability of Dato-DXd with
Tagrisso. So I think that's an important piece to also put in place. So I think it is encouraging.
Obviously, as we've already said, we're going to be expanding the portfolio of Phase III trials that
we have for Dato-DXd, and you'll see more of those trials in the coming months. But this is a
place that obviously we can build on the great data that we've just seen with FLAURA2, by looking
at the combination of Tagrisso with chemo, and you have the potential then to improve on the
chemo piece. So I think it's an interesting area, and obviously, we'll be posting more trials in the
coming months.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Emmanuel, over to you.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you. So yeah, a quick question on vemircopan, the discontinuation for lack of efficacy in
PNH. What cross-read does that have to the ongoing myasthenia gravis and renal studies and
where does that leave your overall strategy and ability to defend against potentially newcomers
like danicopan, et cetera? And then if I could, a very quick follow-up for Ruud. You didn't mention
China VBP for Fox EG next year. Are you no longer expecting that to be a headwind for revenues?
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Marc, do you want to cover the first one?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `
Yes. So first question on vemircopan in PNH. I mean, in PNH, it's absolutely essential to have a
very high control of the disease and we recommend in PNH the dual therapy between danicopan
and Ultomiris. Ultomiris has a very sustained and strong efficacy over time, so we believe it's
going to remain the standard of care. Vemircopan has shown efficacy, but not as high as we want
it to be. Regarding the read across other indication, we are still continuing Phase II studies in MG,
as you mentioned, but also in several renal indication and we are hopeful that this indication will
be successful.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Before you do, maybe just one quick addition to what Marc said, I mean the -- at the ASH,
you probably saw Iptacopan showed some sign of potential breakthrough IVH. So, that's why webelieve C5 potentially combined with danicopan is really the best option here. Over to you, Marc
-- over to Ruud, sorry.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, no. So, Emmanuel, so clearly Farxiga is not listed in so-called batch 9. It could go into the VBB
batch 10, but that impact will be only seen then in mid-late 2024. So we simply need to wait until
batch 10 is announced.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Last thing with China and Farxiga is we will -- as we've said before, we will what we call
consumerize it, just like we did with Crestor. These are really -- I mean, the volume potential is still
gigantic in China. The price is relatively low, so we can definitely consumerize it and operate in the
private market and deliver it to patients at home for a very low cost. So we believe we should be
able to transition. There will be -- when we go VBB, and we don't know exactly when, because as
Ruud said, it could be further delayed, but when we go to VBP, we should have an initial drop, and
like we saw with Crestor, and our hope and belief is that it can, after that, grow in volume.
We'll take the last one question from `Peter Welford, Jefferies at Jefferies. Over to you, Peter.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks. Just coming back to the oral GLP-1, I'm just wondering if, firstly, Ruud could perhaps
comment on how important is it that this can potentially get to market at a time when you do
have successful lifecycle management or other strategies for Farxiga in the U.S. market and
overall a sort of presence, I guess, a significant presence in your CVRM portfolio in the U.S.? And
how does it leave the weekly Amylin, perhaps a question for Sharon. Is it actually possible to
potentially reformulate the oral as well as an injectable for an Amylin combination? Or is the
Amylin destined to remain a monotherapy at this point within your portfolio? And apologies, I
know I'm last, but if I'm done, it's a step back again. Could you just quick -- I mean can you
reiterate the mid-to-high 30% longer-term margin target? Because that wasn't actually
mentioned and it's come up for a lot of people to question. Thank you.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Okay. So Peter, let me do my best in order to answer your first question regarding the
importance of this new asset and the combination with Farxiga. It's fair to say that we are getting
more and more excited about the other combinations in our portfolio as well. Sharon mentioned
the combination with zibotentan. We hope to show results with the Belsey combination with
Farxiga. And last but not least, of course, we have the baxdrostat combination. The Phase III trial
has already started for the mono-component, and hopefully early next year, we will also start the
Phase III in the combination of Farxiga. So those three will enter the market earlier than the
combination with the obesity, but of course, we will do everything in order to accelerate the
development also of the combination of the Eccogene compounds with Farxiga if that makes
sense. So that's what I can say at the moment. It's high speed. There's a lot ongoing in order to
make sure that we will mitigate the potential effect of an LoE in the United States as much as
possible.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And the last -- your second question which -- sorry, go ahead, Sharon, yes.A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Yeah, I think we'll follow-up. There was a question there about how this fits into our portfolio in
which we already have a long-acting Amylin agonist. I think it's an excellent question, but let's just
say that nobody thinks that the unmet medical need for diabetes has been fully met at this point.
And so, we have multiple opportunities to address both type 2 diabetes and obesity with the
molecules in our portfolio, as well as with this acquisition of ECC5004. So there is still a place for
our long-acting Amylin molecule, and it is a small molecule, so we anticipate that it would be
combinable with a molecule like ECC5004. So we continue to build on our portfolio, not subtract
from.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Yeah, and with Amylin, the idea is really to combine, not replace GLP-1, but combine
and provide a product that is better tolerated, add further -- either further weight loss or enable
reduction of GLP-1 and better tolerability of the combination, and also more durable effect, but of
course, only time will tell whether we can deliver this, and that's why we do the clinical
development.
So the last question. Operating margin remains certainly our key focus but of course, we will
always consider the opportunities we have. As I said before, with what we have in our hands, we
can deliver industry-leading growth post 2025, which we have said before, and if we find other
additional opportunities to grow even faster, certainly we may consider adjusting operating
margin target, but the one thing we will not do is compromise the profitability and the cash flow
in absolute value. So we would only trade an adjustment in operating margin if we thought we can
deliver faster, even faster growth and more profit and more cash flow. So that's sort of the
bottom line and we want to deliver for shareholders at the end of the day.
So with this, maybe we want to call it a day and thank you very much for all your great questions
and have a good day everybody. Thank you.