Q2 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q2 2023 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast.
Please note that during the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode and the
conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions). A recording of the conference call,
including the Q&A session, will be available on our website shortly after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr.`Samir Shah, Global Head, Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Sharon. And good morning and good afternoon, everybody. I want to begin
by thanking you for participating in our webcast and investor call again.
Before we actually start, I'm going to read the safe harbor statement. The information presented
today contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties,
and other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future
results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For adescription of some of these factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F and its most
recent quarterly results on Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and furnished to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Just a couple of housekeeping points: as per usual, we'll have one question per analyst, when we
go to the Q&A session and you'll have time to go back again and ask a second question. And the
other point is that we aim to finish today at quarter past the hour. So, it's 9:15 East Coast time and
15:15 European time.
And with that, I'll hand it across to Vas.
`Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Samir. And thanks, everyone, for joining today's call. With me today, I also have
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
So, let's move straight to Slide 4. And as you saw in our release earlier today, Novartis delivered
strong sales growth, excellent margin expansion, and we were able to raise our full-year
guidance. Getting to the numbers, our group sales grew at 9% and core op inc at 17%. IM sales
were up 9% and core op inc up 20%, allowing us to drive our IM margin to 39%. And Sandoz sales
were up 8% and core op inc up 6%. Harry will go through the guidance in more detail, but as you
saw, we raised our full year guidance for both sales and core operating income.
We had a number of innovation milestones as well as other strategic milestones over the course
of the quarter, and we'll go through those over the course of my slides. In addition, you saw that
there was a ruling from the district court regarding one of our patents for Entresto, our
combination patent. We're in the process of appealing that patent and feel our arguments are
strong to ultimately prevail on appeal, though that process will take 12 to 18 months. We would
note there are currently no generics that are currently approved for Entresto, and also of note, in
our assessment of recent history, there hasn't been a at-risk launch on a product of Entresto size
in at least 15 years. So, we'll continue to fully defend our IP, citizens petitions, and other elements
of our strategy to enable Entresto to have as long an exclusivity period as we believe it deserves.
Now, moving to the next slide, our Q2 growth was driven by strong performance across our key
growth drivers. You can see that each of our key brands, Entresto, Kesimpta, Pluvicto, Kisqali,
Scemblix, Leqvio, all delivered excellent performance in the quarter. And I think this reflects a
combination of our new strategy, a refresh strategy, a focus in five key therapeutic areas, as well
as our streamlined organization from our transformation last year. That's delivering outstanding
growth in market from a top-line standpoint, but also delivering strong performance on the
bottom line as well. We're going to take each one of those brands in turn in the subsequent
slides.
Now, moving to slide six, Entresto delivered strong double-digit growth in all geographies. The
brand grew 37% on the quarter, and you can see robust growth, both ex-U.S. and U.S. On the U.S.
side, our weekly TRx prescriptions continue to grow robustly 38% sales growth 17% NBRx growth.
So, really outstanding performance on the U.S. side. Ex-U.S., we had 36% constant currency
growth, and that's driven by HFrEF, but as well our performance on hypertension in China and
Japan.
We remain confident in the outlook for Entresto's continued growth, both driven by guidelines, its
HFrEF indication, but as well as continued use in the HFpEF indication, and importantly, our
pediatric approval in the EU confirms that we have regulatory data protection through November
of 2026.Now, moving to slide 7, in Cosentyx, our sales stabilized in Cosentyx in the second quarter with
sales up 1%. When you dive in a little bit deeper into our Cosentyx performance, you saw U.S.
sales down 12% in constant currency, and this was a situation, where volume growth was offset by
revenue deductions as we outlooked in Q1. There's also the matter of the base impact we had in
the previous year from the revenue deduction true ups we took in the second half of the year,
which weren't accounted in the first half of 2022, leading to a higher base last year. Ex-U.S. sales
were up 18% with growth across all of our core indications. And importantly in China, we're seeing
outperformance versus the market with double-digit growth as the China healthcare systems
continue to stabilize.
Now when you outlook to the second half, we expect important pipeline milestones with
hidradenitis already approved in the EU. In the U.S., we expect to get approvals of both HS and
our IV formulation, which would allow us to penetrate the Part B segment with respect to
Cosentyx with rheumatologists, who who's continued to use IV formulations of these medicines.
And the 300 milligram autoinjector was also -- we also received approval for.
From an LCM standpoint, three important programs continued to progress on track, Giant Cell
Arteritis, PMR, and Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy. We did terminate our lupus nephritis program
based on a lack of compelling efficacy.
Now moving to the next slide, Kisqali continued a strong momentum globally. And I think this is a
testament to its excellent differentiated profile. You had 66% growth across the globe driven
both by the U.S. and ex-U.S. markets. Our NBRx share now in the U.S. has climbed to 34% on the
three-month rolling. And we continue to see strong month-to-month growth on our NBRx share.
And this is of course driven by data you all know well, the consistent efficacy we showed in the
metastatic setting across MONALEESA-2, MONALEESA-7, and MONALEESA-3, which show that
the medicine has consistent benefit regardless of patient status or combination therapy. The
medicine is included in the NCCN guidelines as the only Category 1 treatment for first-line
metastatic breast cancer with an aromatase inhibitor.
Now, moving to the next slide; our NATALEE results, which we unveiled at ASCO earlier this
summer, build on that differentiated profile, allowing us to demonstrate the potential benefits of
Kisqali in a broad population of Stage 2 and Stage 3 early breast cancer patients. As a reminder,
we had very consistent results across IDFS, RFS, Distant Disease-Free Survival, and OS. Those
consistent results is what give us confidence that we'll be able to achieve a broad label in the
early breast cancer setting. Importantly as well, we saw a positive OS trend already at this early
interim analysis.
Now, in terms of safety, there were no new safety signals. The 400-milligram dose was well
tolerated with limited need for dose reductions. AE-related discontinuations were mostly
protocol-mandated due to lab findings. The most frequent AEs were neutropenia and were liver-
related. And we had low rates of Grade 3 symptomatic AEs, particularly with respect to GI-related
symptoms.
Now, moving to Slide 10, the next steps for Kisqali will be continued momentum in the metastatic
breast cancer setting, where you see strong performance across our key geographies. And we
want to continue to drive that momentum as we believe Kisqali is becoming the standard of care
in the metastatic space. NATALEE updated analysis for IDFS and OS is expected in the second
half of 2023. We expect filings in the EU in Q3 and U.S. in Q4 at the FDA would like a greater
information fraction on the OS analysis to allow us to get to the filing in Q4 of this year. And we're
pursuing a broad label reflecting the intention to treat population studied in NATALEE. So,
collectively, we believe that NATALEE has enabled Kisqali to have the potential to more thandouble the number of patients, who could benefit from a treatment with a CDK4-6 in the early
breast cancer setting.
Now moving to Slide 11, Kesimpta also had an outstanding quarter and continues its strong
trajectory, doubling sales versus prior year. Sales were up 105% in U.S. NBRx, you can see here,
trending very well on the rolling four-week. The TRx in the U.S. was up 80% and NBRx was up
43%. Our B-cell NBRx share is currently 54% of the market. And that I think will be a key driver
going forward as the B-cell therapies continue to gain a larger and larger share of the MS market.
In Europe as well now, we're seeing strong launch momentum with 24,000 patients treated. And
we're confident in the continued growth of this brand, as I mentioned, both with the expansion of
B-cell therapies, but also with the compelling profile versus older therapies, as well as, in
competing overall in the B-cell class.
Now, moving to Slide 12, Pluvicto continued its strong performance. And importantly, we are at a
situation, where supply is no longer constraining our ability to grow this brand. In quarter two, we
saw Q2 sales of $240 million. Millburn was approved for the U.S., and Zaragoza was approved for
the EU as sites for commercial supply of Pluvicto. And we are ramping up now additional lines in
Millburn rapidly.
This has allowed us to start adding new patients as well as adding new centers, where we have
goal to add over 100 new centers over the coming months to enable continued treatment for
patients with prostate cancer with Pluvicto. And we have progressed as well our ex-U.S.
reimbursement discussions. Upcoming milestones for Pluvicto will include the PSMAfore pre-
taxane data presentation, and we expect filing in the second half. In addition, the PSMA addition
study is progressing on track as well. And we also expect submission and approval of our new
Indianapolis site to further increase supply of Pluvicto. So, we would expect a continued strong
performance in this brand, and we continue to outlook at Pluvicto to exceed $1 billion in sales this
year.
And moving to Leqvio, the launch continues to progress steadily as we've outlooked, and we
continue to gain broader and broader utilization and depth amongst cardiovascular providers in
the United States. Sales reached $78 million globally. We now have 2,600 facilities that have
ordered Leqvio, which is a solid increase versus quarter one. We are expanding buy and bill as
the primary mode of acquisition of Leqvio consistently now over time.
And one of our key areas of focus is to drive greater depth amongst early adopters of Leqvio. In
general, we find that once physicians reach a certain comfort level with the medicine along with
their office staff, then we can reach a significant number or proportion of patients in a given office
or clinic ultimately receiving Leqvio to lower elevated cholesterol.
We've demonstrated already, as you are aware, consistent safety profile for this medicine. But
importantly, in the last few weeks, we've also achieved a label expansion in the U.S., which
expands Leqvio to patients with primary hyperlipidemia. And that, in effect, allows us to move into
the primary prevention setting. less restrictive language for use for statin therapy, meaning that
patients do not have to be on a maximally-tolerated statin to initiate Leqvio, as well as the
removal of several adverse reactions from the safety section. So, this will give us an additional
catalyst to help us continue to drive broader Leqvio adoption in the U.S. and around the world.
Now looking at Scemblix sales, Scemblix sales were strong in the quarter. This brand continues to
outperform our internal expectations. Sales reached $106 million in the quarter. This is driven by
our new patient share in the third line setting, where we've reached a 35%. And we've had a 16%increase of monthly prescribers on the brand, as well as a global rollout of the medicine in
Germany and Japan.
I think one of the compelling things of this therapy are excellent efficacy, but also an outstanding
safety profile, which clinicians and patients appreciate. And we continue to work to advance
Scemblix dataset to enable it to be used in earlier lines. The Ask for First first-line registrational
study has completed enrollment, and we expect readout and filing in the early part of next year,
and we also continue to do additional studies to further profile Scemblix in the second-line setting
as well as in combinations with second-generation TKIs.
Moving to Slide 15 and turning to our pipeline; a couple of notes here. Our key 2023 readouts are
on track. That includes the Kisqali data, which I've already mentioned, the Pluvicto updated
analyses, which I've also mentioned, as well as iptacopan, where you're aware we've filed in both
PNH both in the U.S. and the EU. We used a priority review voucher as well in the U.S. We also are
on track to read out the APPLAUSE-IgAN Phase 3 study in the quarter four as well as the APPEAR-
C3G data readout as well in Q4 of 2023.
And turning to the next slide, when you look ahead now to the potential readouts that we have or
expected readouts we have in the 2024-2025 timeframe, these also are on track. Remibrutinib
will have its primary analysis in CSU, chronic spontaneous urticaria, in the second half of this year,
with the final 52-week readout required for regulatory submission in the U.S. in 2024.
I've already covered Scemblix and Pluvicto. Our OAV101 gene therapy for SMA in older patients
with an intrathecal administration is on track now for a readout in 2024. And pelacarsen,
ianalumab, and additional indications for iptacopan also all are on track, which really gives us a
broad array of new medicines to enable us to drive growth in the second half of this decade and
into the 2030s.
Moving to the next slide and just to provide an update on some of our external BDNL-related
efforts. We've done a number of recent deals to bolster our pipeline, as well as strengthen our
technology platform. We have a proposed acquisition of Chinook Therapeutics, which is currently
awaiting regulatory approvals. This would bring into the portfolio two late-stage assets for the
treatment of renal diseases, Atrasentan and Zigakibart, which is an anti-APRIL antibody. Both have
shown strong proteinuria reduction in Phase 2 and could provide near-term launches for -- in our
portfolio.
We also announced earlier this week the acquisition of DTx, which is an siRNA company that has
an asset that we expect to soon enter human clinical trials for Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome, but
also has a platform, importantly, which enables the siRNAs to be directed using a lipid technology
to central nervous system, which hopefully could open up new opportunities to treat a range of
diseases with siRNAs.
We also made important acquisitions of a gene therapy from Avrobio on -- for cystinosis, a really
debilitating disease without great therapies currently as well as a mid-stage radioligand therapy
targeting FAPI from Clovis Oncology. We also continue to focus our portfolio consistent with our
overall company strategy. We announced the proposed divestment of our front-of-the-eye
assets to Bausch + Lomb for an upfront of $1.75 billion, as well as a total consideration depending
on sales milestones of $2.5 billion. And we also recently terminated our option agreement for
ociperlimab with BeiGene.
So, with that, let me hand it over to Harry.
Harry?`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you very much, Vas. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone.
I'm now going to walk you through some of the financials for the second quarter and the first half.
And as always, my comments refer to growth rates and constant currencies, unless otherwise
noted. As you would see from the numbers, it has been a very strong first half of the year.
On Slide 19, we detail the strength of top and bottom line performance during quarter two, and
half one. It's really a pleasure to present results like these, which are strong across the board.
Overall, we have continued the robust top and bottom line growth that we saw at the beginning
of the year. In quarter two, sales grew 9% with broad based performance across our key
therapeutic areas and focused geographies. Core operating income increased by 17%, driven
mainly by higher sales. Core EPS grew 25% to $1.83, faster than core operating income, also
supported by our $15 billion share buyback program, which we just finished in June.
Turning to the first half, sales grew 8% core operating income, 16% with strong core EPS growth
also of 25% to $3.54. Free cash flow grew 23% to $6 billion. In summary, a very strong first half of
the year as our efforts to focus and streamline the business continue to pay off.
On the next slide, Slide 20, I want to go into a bit more detail about the performance of
Innovative Medicines and Sandoz. For quarter two, Innovative Medicines sales grew 9%, which
drove an increase in Innovative Medicines core operating income of 20%. Core margin improved
340 basis points versus prior year for the quarter, reaching 39% in quarter two for Innovative
Medicines.
Sandoz net sales grew 8% for the quarter, mainly driven by Europe and the biosimilar business.
Core operating income was up 6% with the core margin at 18% for the quarter. As we move
towards the anticipation of the spin-off of Sandoz, we have also provided figures for Novartis
excluding Sandoz in the bottom row here. And you see the Novartis excluding Sandoz grew 9%
top line and 19% in the bottom line for the quarter. Of course, these numbers are very close to
Innovative Medicines numbers. And there was also a 300 basis points growth in the core margin,
which reached 37.7%, meaning we are well on track for 40% mid-term margin target.
Next slide, please.
I would like to remind everyone about our capital allocation priorities. As a company, we have, of
course, substantial cash generation, which we aim to distribute across both our priorities of
investing in the business and returning capital to our shareholders. In terms of investing in the
business, we have one of the largest R&D budgets in the industry and have spent $43 billion on
R&D from 2018 to 2022. Over the same period, we spent about $30 billion on bolt-on M&A
opportunities.
In terms of returning capital to shareholders, we have a strong and growing annual dividend in
Swiss francs per share and have undertaken regular share buybacks at, I would say, a reasonable
level. Please note that the annual dividend will not be rebased post the Sandoz spin, and Sandoz
will also pay its own dividend, essentially providing a further uplift of dividends for our investors.
With respect to share buybacks, we have today announced a continuation of our previously
completed share buyback program in June with a new up to $15 billion share buyback, which we
expect to complete approximately by the end of 2025. Obviously, given our strong cash flows
and expected top and bottom line continued growth, we continue to have the flexibility to do
both share buybacks and bolt on M&A and BD and LDLs.Now to Slide 22, please.
The continued strong performance so far and confidence in our future growth allows us once
again to raise both top and bottom line guidance for the full year of 2023. So, for Innovative
Medicines and Novartis, excluding Sandoz, we now expect sales to grow high single digit and
core operating income to grow low double digit to mid-teens. For Novartis, including Sandoz,
which is the group guidance, and assuming that Sandoz would remain within the group for the
entire 2023, we now expect sales to grow high single digit and core operating income to grow
low double digit. Our key assumptions are that no U.S. interest or generic launches happen at risk
in 2023, and also that no Sandoz data and AR generics entered U.S. in '23.
On the next slide, I'm turning to Sandoz. Sandoz guidance is maintained for 2023. This guidance
is obviously very conservative, given the first half delivery, but it's also ahead of a spinoff, and
there are clearly upside potential potentials to that guidance.
On the next slide, please; on the assumption that Sandoz becomes an independent company, it
will do so clearly from a position of strength. First and foremost, we have built a strong leadership
team around Richard with decades of generic industry experience; second, the company has a
strong pipeline with small molecule generics and biosimilars. Clearly, the sales execution has
improved significantly, and Novartis has increased investments to ensure Sandoz has strong
future biosimilar capabilities, including a state-of-the-art new biologics manufacturing site. These
strengths will allow Sandoz to execute on its six strategic levers that you see on the right side. I
won't go into all the details here, but you have seen Richard and his team having outlined in detail
for you all of these priorities during the most recent capital market days and IR road shows.
On the next page, I just want to turn to the numbers for Sandoz on the next slide, and you can
see that the business has performed well with respect to sales growth for the last few quarters.
Looking specifically at quarter two performance, sales were strong, driven by Europe and
biosimilars, and the U.S. has stabilized quarter-on-quarter. As expected, stand-up costs mean that
the growth rates for core operating income are lower than for the top line. Importantly, for the
midterm, we expect solid mid-single-digit sales growth and core EBITDA margins to be in the
mid-20s. And as a reminder, the first dividend will already be paid in 2024 for the full year 2023
performance.
Now turning to my final slide, the planned spin-off is well on track. Many of you have attended the
Sandoz Capital Market Days and shareholder road shows. If you have not been able to
participate, there will be further opportunities to do so after the Extraordinary General Meeting.
The EGM will take place on September 15, and you will receive the necessary materials, which
include a shareholder brochure and listing prospectus well in advance. If you and the majority of
the shareholders approve the spin-off, we will also be doing post-EGM road shows in the second
half of September just in time before the expected spin-off in early Q4.
And with that, I hand it back to Vas.
`Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry.
So, moving to Slide 28; so, you can see in the quarter that we demonstrated strong business
momentum as we are really now well on our way to becoming a truly focused innovative
medicines company. Very strong half-one sales growth, robust margin expansion, and that broad-
based performance was across TAs and geographies. We remain very confident in our near andmid-term growth profile, including our pipeline, Kisqali, Pluvicto, iptacopan, as well as the
continued performance of our other launch brands such as Kesimpta, and Leqvio.
We're raising our 2023 full-year guidance. We are initiating, based on our confidence in our
outlook and in our company, a $15 billion share buyback, and we're on track for the Sandoz spin-
off in early Q4 2023.
So, with that, we can open the line for questions. One question per analyst, please.
Sharon?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions).
We will now go to your first question and the question comes from the line of `Richard Foster, JPMorgan Chase & Co. from
JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Foster, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. A question on Entresto, please. Could you talk about your
discussions with the FDA around the citizen petition around the form of the product and whether
any of the generics meet these requirements and when we could expect an update around
those discussions with the FDA? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. So, with citizens petitions, we, of course, file them and then there isn't any
formal process. So, we're really now awaiting FDA's decision and there is no timeline necessarily
for FDA's decisions around citizens petitions.
There are two relevant citizens petitions. One is on the nature of any potential generic. And our
view is that a generic must be an exact match to Entresto, which was an important consideration
in the number of generics that might be able to be ultimately approved by the agency. And the
second is with respect to labeling and how the label needs to reflect our dosing titration, as well
as our overall indication statement for the medicine. So, we'll await that typically the agency will
rule on citizens petitions prior to taking an action on any of the generics. And as we noted earlier,
that as of right now, there are no approved or pending approvals of generics to our knowledge.
Thank you, Richard.
Next question, Operator?
Q - `Richard Foster, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Jo Walton, Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.Q - `Jo Walton, Credit Suisse `
Hello. Can you hear me?
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Go ahead, Jo.
Q - `Jo Walton, Credit Suisse `
I wonder if you could just tell us a little bit more about Leqvio. You were very confident that there
would be an inflection in the second half of the year. You do have a broader label. Could you just
tell us a little bit more about, say, formulary positioning, levels of reordering, how many doctors
have really moved across from having tried it once to saying this is awesome and kept going, and
a little bit more, perhaps, about the European rollout? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Jo.
You know, with Leqvio, what we see right now is a continued expansion in the number of facilities
that are ordering and the number of physicians that are ordering. On the positive side, what we
see is, once a physician gets beyond a certain number of patients on the medicine, roughly four
or five, that then they really expand their practice, and they actually can drive quite a bit of depth.
But then we have a group of physicians, who are still at the one to two dose -- one to two patient
level. And a big part of our efforts right now are to drive greater depth amongst those
prescribers, because we find once there's enough scale and a practice of understanding how to
operate in Part B, that then, of course, physicians find the value proposition very compelling.
In terms of coverage, we have very good coverage. We're well beyond what the PCSK9
monoclonals achieved. We're at over 75% coverage at label. And so, we feel very good about the
coverage. So, this is really more about just going step by step, practice by practice, and getting
them comfortable with the buy and bill process with Part B and all of the details therein.
I think we'll continue on a steady trajectory through the second half of the year. Difficult to predict
when exactly an inflection will occur, but we know well from our past cardiovascular launches,
whether it was Diovan or Lotrel or Entresto that these things take time. But once we reach a
certain level of scale, then the launch really takes off and that's what we continue to expect for
Leqvio.
Overseas, we see good performance in the European markets, where we primarily launched in
the private markets, so very good. And now in the UK, we are starting to see an uptick as the UK
has rolled out some additional programs for physicians to create incentives to get their patients
to goal for cholesterol. So, I think that's really helping the rollout in the UK. And then looking
forward, we continue to work towards approvals in China and Japan, which should further help
Leqvio's growth trajectory in the medium to long-term.
Thanks for the question, Jo.
Next question, Operator?
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank from DB. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question. Maybe I can take one on Pluvicto. So, just a few thoughts
ahead of the PSMAfore details, which you obviously headlined PFS for quite some time ago in
December, but you've yet to present. So, ahead of seeing the details, any thoughts on whether
that will directionally look similar to vision thoughts about how OS trends may also match and
mirror that data set?
And then just a word, if we could, on the supply situation, the cadence of sales for H2 and
beyond. You've reiterated the over $1 billion number, but how could PSMAfore inflect that
addressable opportunity next year? And if it's not pushing my luck, we've got a competitor
readout, slash, also due by the end of the year. Just love to hear your latest thoughts in terms of
differentiation, mechanistic or logistic? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Emmanuel. So, on Pluvicto, we continue to see very strong demand for this
medicine, and we're really now getting back out to actively promoting and generating demand as
we've gotten our supply situation stabilized and beginning to expand. So, on the on the vision
population, we continue to see very robust growth, and we would expect, as I outlined, over $1
billion of sales. Now, how much larger that gets is really just a dependent on how fast we can
bring facilities online and work through the logistics of getting these centers scaled and up and
running.
Now, in terms of PSMAfore, we outlined that we had a clinically meaningful, statistically significant
readout in our PFS. We're now awaiting the maturation of OS. I think, as everyone knows, the FDA
is now requiring companies to have not just a no detriment on OS on these readouts, but mature
enough data set as well, in terms of the information fraction available. That's why it's taken us a
bit more time to get to that, but that will then enable us to provide the full dataset later this year,
both for rPFS and OS. And what I can say is we found the rPFS data to be clinically meaningful,
and we think important for clinical practice.
So, what will that mean for demand? You know, depending on how you -- when you speak to
physicians, at least the physicians I've spoken with personally, as well as, heard through others, a
potential tripling. I mean, on the order of that level of the potential demand for the product in a
given center, it's too early to say exactly the trajectory of that, and really depend on the timing of
us getting the approval, which would enable then the reimbursement, but it would, it would be a
substantial, we believe, expansion of the potential for Pluvicto in the marketplace, which puts, I
think, really the importance of us getting our Indianapolis site fully approved and up and running
later -- later this year. That would enable us between Millburn, our site in Italy -- and Indianapolis
to fully, fully meet the demand.
In terms of the competitor, our understanding that competitor readout is similar to PSMAfore, and
I think really this is a market that you need outstanding supply chain logistics, commercial scale,
and the ability to consistently deliver for customers not only in the U.S. and around the world. And
really, we believe our key differentiators will be experienced with Pluvicto as well as the supply
chain that we've built that enables confidence in the supply.
I would note as well, we're continuing to pursue Pluvicto as well in other markets, so Japan,
eventually other markets in Asia, as well as continued expansion in Europe. So, it's very exciting.It's an exciting medicine.
I would take a moment as well to say we also invest on our broader pipeline within RLT. Not only
do we look at expansion of Pluvicto into the pre-metastatic setting as well as biochemical
recurrence-delayed castration, but as well, we have a Lutathera program looking at other types
of cancers. We're advancing our FAPI program, which we recently acquired, as I mentioned, from
Clovis in a range of different tumors. We have our bombesin program, which we're looking at a
number of mid-stage studies as well.
So, a lot of things happening in the RLT space, and we continue to believe, given the
infrastructure we're building and the potential to have compelling efficacy and a very good safety
profile so far, with a limited number of administrations is very compelling to both patients,
providers, and hospital systems.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So, thank you, Emmanuel.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to ask a question about MBL949. I know it was
updated this quarter that that was discontinued for efficacy. But just how you're thinking about the
commitment to sort of the broader cardiometabolic metabolic space inclusive of obesity given
that you have a pretty substantial cardiovascular infrastructure from the commercial side. Is that
an area for potentially focused business development? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Emily. So, the MBL ultimately did not have a compelling overall profile. So, we're
stopping that program. We do have earlier stage efforts looking at novel mechanisms in the
preclinical space, in obesity and metabolism, but these are very early and I think still far away
from, you know, the ultimately reaching the commercial marketplace.
Our focus is cardio-renal. I mean we continue to have of course on top of our efforts with
Entresto and Leqvio. We have pelacarsen. We have our XXB program, which is a novel
mechanism looking at hypertension and heart failure, a range of programs in the clinic now in anti-
arrhythmic agents as well as we're advancing a broad portfolio of siRNAs to follow up on Leqvio
to address cardiovascular risk reduction. We hope with less frequent therapy and hitting multiple
different drug targets at the same time.
On the renal side, as I mentioned, building on iptacopan, we have the proposed acquisition of
Chinook as well as our continued efforts to treat the broad range of renal diseases, where we
think there's a lot of unmet need and the opportunity to bring meaningful medicines forward. So,
that's where we'll be focusing in the years ahead.Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. It's on Entresto patent litigation again. So, we understand
the 938 Delaware MDL litigation that was subject to a trial in October last year is now being
settled ahead of ruling. So, if you could just confirm that's correct, which filings you settled with,
and whether the filers that were in the 659 ruling two weeks ago, so MSN, Macleods, and Hetero,
are part of that settlement, and then have the 938 and 134 crystalline patents been asserted
against those filers that were successful in the 659 ruling that we saw a couple of weeks ago?
So, overall, I guess the broader question is there still a scenario, where generic Entresto doesn't
launch until November 2027 or later, or do you now see that as off the cards and the latest that
you could protect this as being mid-2025? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. So, the overall Entresto situation is complex in that each one of the generic
filers has different scenarios in terms of the patents that we believe they've infringed and we've
asserted against them. They have different approaches, which may or may not enable them to
ultimately get approved depending on how FDA rules on citizens petitions. So, I'm not going to
get into all of the details. I can confirm that we did, as you did note, we did settle the 938 patent
with crystal and the relevant other generics, and so that matter is closed off from our perspective.
But in terms of the rest right now, our focus is on appealing the district court ruling, where we feel
that we have strong grounds to ultimately prevail on appeal to continue to assert our remaining
patents through the various litigations that we have ongoing, to await the citizens petition ruling.
Our forecasting guidance remains unchanged at a mid-2025 forecasting guidance. We, of course,
will do everything we can to extend our overall support longer -- our overall exclusivity longer for
Entresto And as I mentioned as well, there's no generics currently approved and in terms of the
history here, nobody has filed that -- launched at risk on a brand of this size in the last 15 years.
So, all of that gives us confidence on the outlook on the brand.
Thanks, Graham.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Michael Leuchten, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Hello, Michael; is your line on mute?
Q - `Michael Leuchten, UBS `
Sorry. It's Mike from UBS. Obligatory question for Harry, please. The guidance implies less of a
margin gearing from the top line in the second half. What OpEx lines would be heavier as we're
heading into the second half that wouldn't allow you to gear the top line as much as we saw in
the first half?A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Michael, thank you for the question. So, overall, maybe if we talk about Novartis ex-Sandoz,
right, there will be a little bit more inflation coming through on the COGS line as inventory, of
course, gets used through six months, if you will, not dramatic, but a little bit there.
The other one is we started to get our transformation for growth savings in quarter four last year,
so there's a bit harder comp. And of course, one is a bit conservative, maybe also still, so maybe
there's a bit more upside coming. So, overall, I do see that the sales continues to have this very
good momentum, and then maybe a little bit less bottom line leverage, but still very nice bottom
line leverage, right, we have 340 basis points improvement. I think one cannot assume that
happens every quarter and every year. So, those are the things.
And then, of course, in the group guidance, that has to do with Sandoz in the second half
expecting also a little bit higher COGS line, lower gross margins due to inflation, as well as some
stand-up costs. That is then on the Sandoz P&L a bit more, obviously. Will it be as much as
guided? We have to see that. The spin situation is a bit more volatile than normal ongoing
business. But overall, I would say especially for Novartis, ex-Sandoz continued fantastic top and
bottom line performance expected, with maybe a little bit less margin leverage than we have
seen in the first two quarters.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Michael. Thanks, Harry.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. Thank you. Could I just go back to Entresto? So, if generics do, in fact, launch early and
at risk, how does Novartis adapt to that reality? I'm guessing, you may not have significant
additional cost to pull out of the organization, for example, because you're still promoting other
drugs in the category. So, maybe you could talk about your cost levers in that worst-case
scenario, and then also what it would mean towards M&A strategy. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Tim.
As we stated, we continue to not expect generics to launch at risk, given the risk of trouble
damages in such a brand of this size, as well as, the strength that we believe our case on appeal.
That said, we feel confident that in the midterm, we'll continue to hit our 4% sales and 40%
margin guidance for the company ex-Sandoz as Harry outlined. And that wouldn't require us to
take any additional cost out, because we had already assumed Entresto would go in mid-2025 as
our forecasting assumption. So, our five-year CAGR outlook and 40% margin outlook already
assumed that Entresto would be moving out. So, all of our current transformation programs,
procurement programs, et cetera, as they continue to mature, would enable us to still achieve
those midterm goals.Harry, anything you want to add?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
I think, you know, Tim, you're right. The majority of the marketing and sales is, of course, also on
the other growth drivers. And these other growth drivers have significant potential. We talked
about a few of them, right? So, I do not see that there would be a significant adjustment on the
cost base because of a bit earlier Entresto LOE. On the other hand, as a scenario, we are fully on
defending our IP and that's the focus here and then of course driving the full portfolio including
Entresto and the other great growth drivers as we go forward and not have a distraction to the
organization after having done quite a significant restructuring already. And by the way, we are
ahead of our restructuring cost savings, so all of that is going also as very well, which you also see
reflected in the bottom line numbers.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. Thanks, Jim.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thank you for taking my question. It's on Pluvicto. I wonder if you could help us understand
the importance of showing a strong trend on overall survival in the PSMAfore trial given sort of
recent rulings and precedents, the FDA has taken a bit of a tougher stance when it's come to
showing an OS benefit in prostate cancer specifically. The reason for the question is we've been
asked about the relevance of the PFS benefit in patients progressing on an antigen receptor
pathway inhibitor being re-randomized to an alternative ARPI as opposed to being moved on to
ataxin in the control arm. And therefore, you'd expect a high crossover rate from the control arm
to predict that in this study. So, recognizing clearly that we've shown a -- already shown a strong
PFS benefit with the trial path for a 44% benefit, but how important is it to show this strong OS
benefit to gain approval from the regulatory authorities? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, very good question, Mark. So, right now, our trial is designed in such a way and our
agreements with FDA is that we would need to show no detriment to OS and a compelling rPFS
benefit. As you likely rightly know, there will be significant crossover in this study because of these
patients have few alternatives at that point in time. And so, crossing over to Pluvicto after the
results that we announced earlier, of course, will happen.
So, our current expectation is to show no detriment to OS. On an upside case, we would show a
positive OS already now. And then over time, of course, the OS will mature. But with FDA, we
have an agreement and understanding that there will be crossover that we'll need to account for
in the study analysis.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you for taking my question. It's on Kesimpta. So, clearly, an impressive growth this quarter.
But can you talk to your expectations for this product as we head into next year and beyond? In
light of the new subcutaneous competition that looks likely to be coming, I'm referring here to
the recent positive data for Roche's subcut formulation of Ocrevus. So, what is the risk here that
you lose share to Ocrevus as a less frequently dosed subcut well-established option when that
asset reaches the market? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Kerry.
I think, first, we'll have to see the full data set, because I think, as you know, one of the challenges
with IV-administered CD20s, whether given in a long infusion or a subcu-pumped short infusion, is
do you need to steroid pre-treat and what is the level of reactogenicity and injection site
reactions that you're going to see with the medicine. Overall, our expectation is that the players,
who are currently compete -- are going to compete with one another for the market for
physicians, who prefer to provide IV-administered medicines or subcu pump-administered
medicines in the Part B setting. And that's where Kesimpta continues to do extremely well is
amongst physicians, who prefer to treat their patients with at-home administered monthly
medicines, and Kesimpta has an outstanding efficacy and safety profile.
So, we're prepared if ultimately there is a move by our competitors to try to move into the at-
home subcu administration space. We feel confident in the Kesimpta profile. You have to
remember this is a medicine that takes a minute to give yourself, a patient to give themselves a
month, so 12 minutes a year. You don't have to have any pre-administration. You don't have to
deal with pumps and other technologies, which I think in this patient population is greatly, greatly
valued. So, we think the overall proposition is clear. We have to be aware of the competition, but
we feel confident in the outlook for Kesimpta.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Cowen from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen `
Thank you so much. Also on Entresto, but regarding the new $15 billion share repurchase, based
on what Novartis is saying, it sounds as though Novartis has every intention of fully completing the
new $15 billion share repurchase by year-end 2025, even if, for instance, a generic Entresto were
to launch tomorrow, which I guess is within the realm of possibility. Is that correct or is the sharerepurchase telling us that Novartis believes the probability of a generic Entresto launch between
now and year-end 2025 is essentially zero? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So, Steve, on your first question, it is correct. Our $15 billion share buyback is independent of
various business scenarios, including Entresto, but other business scenarios. It's based on a long-
term view that we have adequate capital to pursue our internal investments, as well as, our
external M&A and BDNL.
We're confident in the outlook for the company. It's our growth outlook and ultimately, where we
believe our share price will appreciate. We believe it's prudent to buy back our shares over this
period of time in returning capital to shareholders and also as we fundamentally believe we're
undervalued versus our potential. So, those are the reasons for the share buyback.
And we are also confident that while we can't exclude, as I've mentioned many times on the call
today, times on the call today, a generic will launch at risk. We believe we have a compelling case
with respect to appealing the district court ruling, a compelling case across a range of other
patents that go out to 2027, or in the case of our dosing titration patent to 2036, as well as, the
various citizens petitions we have with the FDA. So, we maintain as well our guidance for our
expectation from a forecasting standpoint that there wouldn't be Entresto generics in the U.S.
before mid-2025.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks very much. So, my question is a quick one just on the BTK. Can you potentially update us
on if FDA has made any requests of your preliminary data or of your ongoing clinical trials just with
regard to potential risk of liver injury. We know the agency is reviewing the overall class more
broadly. And this has been a stated differentiating factor. Just didn't know how long the FDA is
requiring or potentially requesting Novartis study the product to kind of disabuse that potential
risk. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Seamus.
So, consistent with I think they've asked other sponsors, we do have enhanced liver monitoring in
our multiple sclerosis programs and I have to double check, but I think also in our CSU programs.
To date, we have not seen any liver signals nor have we been placed on any kind of clinical hold.
We continue to believe that this is not a "class specific" to the BTK target, but specific to the
design of individual molecules in the space. And if you look at -- as we've noted, I think, in thepast and you've seen, our chemical structure is quite different than the chemical structure of the
other BTK inhibitors being pursued either in neuroscience or in other indications, which is why we
think it has the unique profile that it does from a safety standpoint.
So, we're looking forward to the initial efficacy readouts in CSU in the second half of this year,
which hopefully will enable us to file in CSU and get a first label in immunology for remibrutinib
and then following that up with a multiple sclerosis as well as other immunology indications over
time.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Intron Health `
Hi there. Thanks for taking my question. Just one on Hyrimoz, please. Just trying to get a feel for
how we should think about the sales trajectory of the next kind of 18-months, given the
importance for Sandoz. Should we -- given it's -- we've got the six months of this year, should we
expect a fast launch this year or will you need to negotiate the former position for 2024 before
we get a better feel for where this can go? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Naresh. Right now, I think it's early days on the Hyrimoz launch. As you know, there
have been multiple competitors entering. Sandoz is also entering. I would expect a slow ramp for
this medicine as we continue to get strong positions with payers, as well as get the infrastructure
up and running to launch. But over time, we do believe this will be a meaningful growth
contributor to Sandoz U.S. and ultimately global growth and overall biosimilars business outlook.
Let me hand it over to Harry in case he has anything to add.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. No, overall, too early, Naresh, to talk about now peak sales and other things, right?
The launch is just starting. And as Vas said, we get on-plan formulary positions and Keren Haruvi
on the U.S. team are, of course, have prepared and now pulling through that launch. And over
time, the Sandoz team is expecting that it becomes a good growth contributor.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Very good. Thanks, Naresh.
Next question here, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies `Hi. Thanks for taking my question. It's just in general on returning back to capital allocation. Just
when we think about the $15 billion buyback, I mean, last time you did a buyback of that
magnitude was obviously following the Roche share disposal. Now you're doing another one
again based on the underlying cash flows. But I wonder if you could just talk about what --
whether we should read into this anything about further needs or further desire to slim down the
portfolio like you did with ophthalmology and whether or not there's any divestments that are
sort of related to that and then how far you are on sort of the process of that sort of pruning
down to focus on the core therapeutic areas.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Peter. I'll cover the focus and I'll hand it to Harry on capital allocation.
So, we've done a lot, as you know, if you go back, it's five-six years between the exits of the
consumer health business, Alcon, Roche -- and the proposal on Sandoz. Alongside that,
streamlining down to five therapeutic areas, exiting areas like liver, as well as, diabetes and now
front of the eye.
Really, I think we're in the right place in terms of the therapeutic areas we're in. There may be
one-offs that we still need to do in terms of streamlining, but nothing major that we would
foresee at this point in time. And really our goal is post the Sandoz spin is to focus on driving the
pipeline, driving the strong operational performance you're seeing and hopefully exceeding the
4% sales growth and driving to that 40% company margin as a new Novartis ex-Sandoz by 2027.
From a capital allocation standpoint, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Peter, overall -- of course, we do our mid and long-term liquidity planning, right? So, you
could say this is simply a continuation of a very responsible capital allocation application.
On the other hand, you can be also in a very pragmatic way from the raw stake, we have about
$6 billion left. There will be a certain debt push down to Sandoz and that pays already for the
majority of the $15 billion. On top of that, of course, we have and expect continued very good
cash flows. And of course, in that planning, we always have still flexibility for executing our bolt-on
M&A and BDNL strategy over the years. So, all of that is simply normal continuation of our capital
allocation strategy built on a very strong balance sheet. As you may know, our net debt is just $15
billion, so it's below one-time EBITDA, so very strong balance sheet there.
We have strong cash flows, and from that standpoint, I think it's just a logic way to continue share
buyback at the same time. Of course, a growing dividend in Swiss franc per share for the Novartis
ex-Sandoz, not rebasing after the Sandoz spin, and then Sandoz will pay another dividend on top
of that. So, I would say it's a logic extension of our capital allocation that provides us a lot of still
flexibility on M&A and BDNL, but with focus on bolt-on as always.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. Thanks, Peter.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Thank you. A question for Vas on how you protect Leqvio from IRA-related price negotiation in
the Medicare patients. Now, I'm assuming given the duration of exposure in around four, the
magnitude of MACE reduction is going to massively exceed that for Repatha and Praluent, and
you're probably going to get a significant fatal MI benefit as well. If those assumptions are
correct, how protective do you think it will be when the clock strikes after nine years and you have
price negotiation? I'm asking partly because you just opened the VICTORION-1P trial, which is
another large and expensive trial; that's the first part. The second part It's just for a VICTORION-
1P, what percentage of that trial population in the real world do you think is outside the Medicare
patient population and therefore immune from the impact of price negotiation?
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Andrew. All very good questions. So, our overall strategy with Leqvio, and I say this
with two important caveats. We don't know yet exactly how, as you know, CMS is going to be
looking at data sets and how they're going to ultimately transact the price negotiations. We'll
understand more, I think, over the coming years.
And then second, we continue to advocate for moving the 9 to 13 as an industry and as a
company, and also more specifically, until that big move happens, also advocating that siRNAs
and related therapeutics were never intended to be part of the nine-year portion of this ruling.
And there is bipartisan legislation that's been tabled, at least in the Senate, trying to correct that -
- those issues.
So, two elements of our story. One, as you rightly point out, is data. We believe that V2P, given
the longer follow-up that we'll have versus the PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies, we can hopefully
show a very compelling cardiovascular risk reduction. Theoretically, that risk reduction could be in
the 25% to 30% when you look at the modeled outcomes, which we think would be very
compelling and hopefully deserving of a price premium if and when the negotiations then
happen.
V1P would give us another data leg. Now, it's important to note, we don't need V1P anymore from
a labeling standpoint, because we've already received the label from FDA without any limitations
in the label referring to the lack of outcomes data. So, we actually have a very optimized label.
Nonetheless, we think generating that data will be compelling. I don't have the exact figures, but I
would say a vast majority of those patients would be -- primary prevention patients would be
below 65 years of age. And so, that also is another leg.
Second, we are advancing combination programs of combination siRNAs. So, two -- one is
working towards combinations with HMG-CoA reductase, but also looking at are there ways to
extend as well the intervals at which Leqvio would ultimately have to be given. So, all strategies
we're looking at as well to protect Leqvio in the long run in this situation. So, I think a lot will be
seen in the coming years, but clearly something that's high on our minds to make sure we can
protect this medicine. As a reminder, its patents go out to between 2036 and 2038. So, we
would have a long runway if we can navigate IRA.
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Redburn from Redburn. Please go
ahead.Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
Thank you for taking my question and coincidentally it's also on -- Jo's question and also touching
on Andrew's. Given the strong progress you're making on the number of facilities, the number on
board of buy and bill, I just wonder if you could give us a bit more detail on -- facilities and with
prescribers. What's driving that physician inertia from getting people from putting a few people
on to four-five plus? Is it related to the profile of the product? Are people waiting for more data?
Is it buy and bill? If you could just give us a little bit more color on what's stopping that move? Was
it simply there was a lag time between people coming on board and becoming multiple
prescribers. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Simon.
I think the biggest topic is just helping physician offices inclusive of the physician understand how
to navigate the Part B buy and bill system. I mean, we still have a surprising number of physicians,
who ultimately file for reimbursement for Leqvio on the first two doses under the pharmacy
benefit. And under the pharmacy benefit, they will either get rejected or go through a lot of
hassle and then that ultimately frustrates them. So, we're really focused now on educating
physicians as best we can and physician offices that you need to set up a separate pathway. Buy
and bill is a different approach. And once they actually get that experience of both having the
patient get on the medicine, ultimately there is no co-pay for many of these patients, depending
on the insurance that they're in. There's net cost recovery for the physician. There's so many
benefits that then, when they get through that journey, then they expand very quickly from 2
patients to 8 patients to 10 patients to 12 patients.
We're losing physicians because of that initial step of misunderstanding pharmacy versus medical,
how to actually procure under buy and bill. I would say, frankly, we underestimated that challenge,
but that doesn't change our conviction when we see how -- when physician offices do convert,
how large and big they grow. It gives us the conviction that if we can get through that hurdle of
getting enough offices to fully understand that there's a big runway for this product coming out of
that. And so, that's the work we still need to work through over the coming months.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
Okay. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel from Stifel. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. Actually, the question is how to reconcile the
second in a row raise in the full year guidance, the midterm guidance, because after the second
raise in 2023, you will end up 23 by growing probably 8% to 9%, i.e. double the expected range
of growth for the four to five coming years. So, how should we think about this?There are basically two scenarios. One, growth is very much front-end loaded and the end part of
the period will show slow growth or you're just very conservative. You've surprised yourself by the
strength in the business this year and you might be surprised also by the strength in the business
for the next four or five years. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks. Thanks for the question. I think it's a very valid point. I mean, overall, right now, we
want to see, obviously, the continued trajectory on these brands. Clearly, if Pluvicto, Kisqali, and
early breast cancer, iptacopan, Leqvio -- Scemblix, and particularly if Scemblix first line comes.
Certainly, we have the opportunity to outperform that 4% sales growth, given the outlook that we
have.
Right now, we maintain that outlook based on what we see today, but I think certainly our
aspiration is to do better, and I think it really comes down to the outlook on those handful of
brands. And if they continue to perform the way they have, there's certainly an opportunity for us
to do better than what we've expected last year.
Harry, anything to add on your side?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
I think, of course, a five-year CAGR is harder to lift than a than a one year, but -- obviously. On the
other hand, of course, from our financial planning standpoint, the interest of contributions to the
current growth would not be very much at the end of the five years because of our mid '25
forecast assumption, right? The outlook was to '27. So, the technical detail that the Entresto
contribution at the end of it would be lower. And that's why we also outlined at a time when we
gave the 4% CAGR, if we are able to hold onto Entresto in the U.S. longer, that this 4% CAGR
would get to a 5% CAGR. So, we are in that range at the moment. And as Vas says, if Pluvicto,
Kisqali, Kesimpta, Scemblix continue to outperform like this, we certainly see the potential for
over-performance.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC from HSBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Hi. Good afternoon. If I may, just looking at the acquisitions you've done, you've announced today
or you announced in the quarter, could you run us through how you're thinking on what type of or
what stage of assets you would acquire have changed as we have an uncertainty around IRA and
also a lot of your peers are also looking to acquire. So that part of capital allocation, if you could
provide us with a bit more color, that would really help.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, absolutely. I mean, generally you see us moving to mid-stage and earlier, and as we've
always guided in the bolt-on range or smaller deals, Chinook as you saw was in that $3 billion
dollar. So, I think very much in line with what we've guided. We are carefully looking at assets in
terms of potential IRA impact and ensuring that we think we have opportunities to either managethe IRA impact or avoid the IRA impact certainly with conditions like Charcot-Marie-Tooth
cystinosis. These are areas, where you wouldn't be impacted by IRA as best as we currently see
those patient populations.
Certainly on Chinook in terms of those renal assets again, we believe that given the patient
profile overall largely manageable with respect to IRA, so that's certainly on our minds. But I think
the biggest thing for us is we want assets that are in our core therapeutic areas or in our core
platform technologies that have an adequate risk reward, where they're de-risked from the basic
science, but still there's an upside that we believe we can deliver based on our capabilities and
we don't want to overpay for very large deals, where assets are fully valued and it's difficult for us
to find upsides of Novartis's contributing and therefore difficult to create value for our
shareholders.
Next question, Operator?
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Thank you. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. Just one left. There's been a lot of discussion obviously
about the Entresto LOE, but there's also a possible couple of smaller products that could face
generics over the next few years. I'm thinking Promacta and Tasigna. So, just wondered if you
could update for us your latest thinking on expected first generic launches to those two drugs in
various territories? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I mean both with Promacta and Tasigna, there's no change to the previous expectations, and
we obviously are continuing to prosecute with respect to Promacta, our various patents, and
seeing if there's a way we can have a longer exclusivity on Promacta. But other than that, in each
of the geographies, there's no change from our prior guidance on Promacta or TSIGNA.
Next question, Operator? And this will be our last question.
Operator
Thank you. Your last question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks. I just wanted to get a follow-up in. So, it's on data timing, actually. So, it appears to
me, do you think you can make ESMO without data when you say 4Q? That's just into 4Q, or are
we thinking something later? And then on NATALEE, you talked about additional updates later in
the year. Presumably San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium would be a good forum for that. And
given that the hazard ratio on overall survival was approaching borderline statistical significance,
when you look at the event rate in that trial now, is there an opportunity to see a statisticallysignificant OS benefit this year if we sort of -- if you continue to predict event rates in line with
what you've seen to date in the trial? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Jim. I think on both of those conferences, those would be our aspirations. Of
course, we have to get the data and ultimately get accepted to the various congresses, but
that's certainly in line with our current aspirations. With respect to the OS benefit, it is certainly
possible given that we were at 0.76. I think it really will, of course, depend on the event rate and
ultimately what we see. But I think there's at least the possibility that we get to a statistically
significant OS benefit. And then when we look at the competitor OS benefit, we hope that we
can demonstrate something that's compelling on that front to build on our broad benefit that we
already saw on the IDFS and stage two and stage three patients.
So, thank you all very much for joining the call. I really appreciate it. We continue to plan on
delivering strong performance for the second half of the year, executing on the Sandoz spin,
getting the share buyback moving and updating you with hopefully exciting clinical trial data over
the course of the second half. I really appreciate your interest in the company and we'll keep you
updated as we continue to progress on our journey. Thank you again.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thanks for participating. You may now
disconnect.