Q1 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome, and thank you for joining the SAP Q1
2023 Earnings Conference Call. Throughout today's recorded presentation, all participants will be
in a listen-only mode. The presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn over the conference to `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Good afternoon, everyone and welcome. Thank you for joining us.
With me today are CEO, `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer; and `Scott Russell, Head of Customer Success, Head of
Customer Success. On this call, we will discuss SAP's results for the first quarter of 2023. You can
find the deck supplementing this call as well as our quarterly statement on our Investor Relations
website.
During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to materially differ. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may
be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to,
the Risk Factors section of SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2022.
Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS and growth rates and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS year-on-year at constant currencies. Non-IFRS financial measures weprovide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Before we start, I would like to welcome Dominik, who joined SAP as our new CFO in March. It is a
great -- it is great to have you on board Dominik. I know the financial community is very much
looking forward to speaking with you.
I would also like to call your attention to our upcoming financial analyst conference, which will take
place on May 16th as part of our Sapphire event in Orlando, Florida. This will be broadcast on our
website.
And, with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Anthony, and thanks to all of you for joining our first earnings call of 2023. This has
been a very good Q1. We continued to see strong demand across our portfolio with customers
choosing our solutions to solve their most strategic and pressing needs. The strong momentum
is reflected in our topline numbers. Current cloud backlog stands at over EUR11 billion, up 25% this
quarter. Cloud revenue grew 22%, up from 21% last quarter.
For S/4HANA specifically, cloud revenue grew 75% and current cloud backlog grew 79%. This
strong performance has led to total Q1 revenue growth of 9%. And, importantly, in Q1, we
delivered double-digit operating profit growth, demonstrating the significance of Q4 2022 as a
tipping point of our transformation. We have now entered a new phase.
Our innovative portfolio is at the heart of our continued growth. In 2023, we are continuing to
execute on our focused growth strategy with S/4HANA and BTP at the core. Our announcement
in March that we came to an agreement to sell our stake in Qualtrics is an example of this focus
on our portfolio. We believe that this transaction will unlock significant value for both companies
and their shareholders. For SAP, to focus more on our core cloud growth and profitability; for
Qualtrics, to expand its leadership in the XM category that it pioneered.
This quarter, we also introduced powerful new offerings and innovations to help our customers
generate significant new sources of value from their IT investments.
I'd like to cover three examples. GROW with SAP, the launch of SAP Datasphere, and the work we
are doing to embed AI across our portfolio.
Let's start with our new offering, GROW with SAP. We see significant growth potential with mid-
market customers new to SAP. These are the companies that we expect to experience significant
growth as they build their businesses. This new offering, GROW with SAP, provides them with a
native ERP solution that can grow and scale with them with agility and speed. It includes our
leading cloud native ERP solution S/4HANA Cloud. Through rapid adoption services and our
modular stack, mid-market customers can go live and see rapid results within weeks at a fixed
price.
GROW with SAP also includes SAP business technology platform, so customers can design and
automate business processes in a cloud native way using SAP build and create industry or LLP
specific enterprise apps without writing code.
The second game changing offering I'd like to discuss is the launch of SAP Datasphere. SAP
Datasphere collects and federate business data across a customer's entire landscape, no matter
where the data resides, including data from SAP and non-SAP sources. Importantly, this is not onlya technical integration, Datasphere enables the business data fabric, a powerful semantically rich
layer that builds the foundation for managing and steering the business end-to-end as well as
applying AI based on high quality contextualized business data. Our engineering teams are
working closely together with four new strategic open data partners; Collibra, Confluent,
Databricks and DataRobot; to integrate with SAP's Datasphere and deliver a superior data and AI
layer for our customers.
Datasphere is a great example of the power of our ecosystem centric strategy. As another
example today, we announced our partnership with UiPath to offer the UiPath automation
platform to customers, which builds upon the strong momentum of SAP Build process
automation. UiPath is also committed to their continued adoption of S/4HANA cloud to run their
own business operations.
Finally, let me touch on our efforts to embed AI across our portfolio. Our AI is built for business.
With AI capabilities built into deliver strong business outcomes for our customers' most critical
business functions and with Datasphere we lay the strongest data foundation in business. We are
in advanced stages to apply generative AI across our portfolio, and we are working as an early
release partner of OpenAI and together with other vendors. We are planning to announce new
disruptive AI use cases. Stay tuned for Sapphire.
Let's now look at how our strategy and the strength of our portfolio and innovation is addressing
the specific needs of our customers in today's challenging macroeconomic environment. SAP's
strategy is geared towards a world where business transformation is foundational to their
success, both now and in the future, where every organization benefits from being part of a
collaborative network, able to effectively manage today's supply chain challenges and where
everything can operate sustainably.
Our offerings provide a pathway to solve many of the fundamental challenges that companies
are facing today. This is behind the strong customer momentum we saw in Q1.
RISE with SAP has become the preferred choice for customers transforming their businesses in
the cloud. We are developing deep, broad-based partnerships around the globe.
Here are some examples. In January, we announced the expansion of our long-standing
partnership with BMW Group. This will help them accelerate their digital transformation and
manage the end-to-end business processes in the cloud. Henkel has selected RISE with SAP to
transform their digital landscape and move to the cloud. Dolce & Gabbana, the renewed (sic -
renowned) luxury goods leader, recently chose RISE to drive their finance transformation. And HP,
the global technology leader operating in more than 170 countries, selected RISE with SAP and
expanded its investment in Q1 to support business transformation for its customers around the
globe. This quarter, we also saw a significant enterprise go lives for RISE with SAP, including AMD
and Air India.
With S/4HANA Public Cloud, we are seeing strong adoption across the broad range of enterprise
mid-market and start up customers. Significant enterprise wins for S/4HANA Public Cloud include
NEC Networks & System Integration Corporation and the benefits and rewards services, activity
of the Sodexo Group, a global leader in employee benefits and engagement. We are also seeing
strong adoption for S/4HANA Public Cloud and GROW with SAP with startups and companies new
to SAP.
Examples include the French aeronautic startup, Flying Whales. In the US, NineDot Energy, a
sustainable energy provider who got up and running in just 10 weeks. And the PETCO, theEuropean plastics recycling company. We continue to also see excellent cross-sell and upsell to
our success with RISE with SAP and S/4HANA Cloud.
Our solution area momentum includes HTL Tech, one of the world's leading technology
companies, leading their HR transformation with SAP SuccessFactors, a competitive win against
Workday. Hitachi, Hi-Tech Corporation of Japan, and Pran [ph], the Mexican food company,
choosing SAP business technology platform. A.S. Watson, the world's largest health and beauty
retailer, renewing their investment in SAP e-commerce cloud and continued momentum for our
sustainability solutions, SAP Sustainability Control Tower and SAP Product Footprint Management,
including the adoption of SAP Sustainability Control Tower by Soleum, the Brazilian producer of
sustainable raw materials.
Let me turn now to our outlook and ambitions. These customer examples show how SAP is
continuing to deliver, despite the continued challenges being faced across nations and industries
today. This is because our vision is directly tied to solutions that fortify our customers against
those challenges and lead to stronger companies. Our strategic transformation has reached a
new phase, where we are now a force for transformation across industries worldwide.
We remain committed to our 2023 guidance updated to reflect Qualtrics as a discontinued
operation. We plan to update our 2025 ambition during our Sapphire Financial Analyst
Conference on May 16th and look forward to talking with many of you there.
In closing, we see significant opportunities for continued growth based on our own
transformation into a leading cloud company. First, the strength of our current cloud backlog
provides the foundation to grow and scale through increased upsell and cross-sell to our existing
customer base.
Second, we expected our new offerings will power our growth in new markets and with those
customers new to SAP. For example, with mid-market customers. We have a leaner and more
agile operating structure, and our game changing solutions are creating sustainably end-to-end
business processes across industries. We are off to a good start in 2023 and remain optimistic
about the unique value we offer our customers.
Finally, I'm of course very happy to welcome `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer to SAP, our new CFO since March 7th.
Dominik, welcome to SAP, and welcome to your first earnings call. Over to you.
`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Christian, for the warm introduction; and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
It's my pleasure to speak with you for the first time ever as SAP's CFO and I look forward to
meeting as many of you as I can over the coming months. I am delighted to join Christian and the
rest of the management team and to actively contribute to the continued success of SAP around
the globe.
First off, in March, we announced the sale of our stake in Qualtrics, which is now pending
customary regulatory clearances. As such, all numbers today are based on continuing operations,
i.e., excluding contributions from Qualtrics. That said, fiscal year 2023 is already off to a solid start.
In the first quarter, current cloud backlog and cloud revenue grew sequentially, while non-IFRS
operating profit was back to double-digit growth in constant currencies.
Cloud revenue was EUR3.2 billion, up 22% year-over-year and the trend towards larger cloud
transactions continued with deals greater than EUR5 million in value, contributing 45% of ourcloud order entry. This was driven by RISE with SAP. Software license revenues saw only a
moderate decrease of 13%, mainly due to the favorable phasing of a few major transactions.
Now, let me talk and walk you through our financial performance. Current cloud backlog was
EUR11.1 billion, continuing its growth at scale by 25%, and S/4HANA current cloud backlog growth
kept its strong momentum at 79%, driven by the strong adoption of RISE with SAP.
In Q1, we added more than EUR200 million to our S/4HANA current cloud backlog, leading to a
total of EUR3.4 billion. Our combined SaaS and PaaS portfolio continued to grow by 25% with the
SaaS cloud revenue up 22% and PaaS cloud revenue up 45%. This continued cloud momentum
was again fueled by the strong contribution of S/4HANA Cloud and the business technology
platform, supported by the underlying performance across all our revenue streams. Total
revenue was up 9% year-over-year, staying on the right trajectory.
Now, let's take a brief look at our regional performance. In the first quarter, all regions delivered a
robust cloud performance. Brazil, Germany and India achieved outstanding cloud revenue growth,
while China, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United States performed
particularly strong.
Now, moving on to the bottom line. Our cloud gross profit grew by 27%, so 5 percentage points
faster than the cloud revenues, driven not only by cloud revenue but also further efficiency gains.
This resulted in cloud gross margin improving from the year ago period, expanding 2.9
percentage points to 71.4%.
In the first quarter, IFRS operating profit decreased 45%, primarily driven by the increase in share-
based compensation expense by EUR434 million, mainly reflecting the increase in our share price
over the first quarter this year as compared to last year's decline over the same period. Our
targeted restructuring program of EUR260 million and, finally, a EUR170 million provision for
preexisting regulatory compliance matters.
Finally, non-IFRS operating profit grew by 12%, evidencing our return to more profitable growth in
the future.
Earnings per share in the quarter increased by 8% to EUR1.08. For IFRS earnings per share, please
also keep in mind that the sale of Qualtrics is expected to be accretive to earnings per share has
significant stock-based compensation expenses, including grants related to its IPO, will be
removed with the divestiture.
The IFRS effective tax rate of Q1 was 40.5% and the non-IFRS tax rate was 28.3%.
Now, looking to our cash generation. Free cash flow for Q1 came in at EUR1.95 billion, down 9%,
mainly due to the impact of the sale of trade receivables in the fourth quarter last year, which was
weighing on Q1 and some first cash out for our restructuring program. If adjusted for these
effects, the underlying cash flow development was positive compared to the prior year, actually
quite in line with the increase in operating profit.
Now, let's move on to our financial outlook. Let me reiterate that we have now reflected the
anticipated sale of our stake in Qualtrics and have updated the outlook accordingly. We are
reaffirming our 2023 outlook for underlying continuing operations. Keep in mind, the disposal gain
realized upon closing of the Qualtrics transaction will be included in profit after tax from
discontinued operations. This will not impact operating profit and free cash flow for continuing
operations, so please refer to our quarterly statements for additional details.Let's now discuss our non-financial targets. Our greenhouse gas emissions were 0 kilotons. We
continue to be on track to be net neutral in our operations this year and are on track to achieve
net zero across the entire value chain by 2030.
SAP has successfully closed a new sustainability linked revolving credit facility with a volume of
EUR3 billion and a tenure of five years plus two one-year extension options replacing the existing
EUR2.5 billion facility.
In line with SAP's strategic commitment, a sustainability component has been embedded for the
first time that links the margin of the new facility with the company's net zero carbon and women
in management ambitions.
So, our Q1 results give us confidence that we are moving in the right direction and are in a good
position to achieve our goals for the year. We continue to build on our cloud momentum and
remain focused on ushering our customers into the new digital world.
Before moving to Q&A, I would like to say that we are very much looking forward to welcoming
you to our financial analyst conference, where we will provide updates to our 2025 ambition. As
Anthony mentioned earlier, it will take place in conjunction with Sapphire in Orlando, and I'm
looking forward to meeting you all there in person. Thank you.
And we'll now be happy to take your questions.
Questions And Answers
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
All right. Thank you. And I would like to kindly remind you to only ask one question when
prompted, please. Operator, please open the line.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) So the first question is from the line of `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas with Exane BNP Paribas. Go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Great. Yeah. Thank you very much, and thanks for taking my question. Welcome to Dominik from
the SAP analysts and investor community. Looking forward to discussing with you. So, just to jump
in with some questions for you. Just one quick question and a follow-up. SAP had already
indicated that it expected double-digit revenue growth in 2024; based on what you've seen thus
far in the Q1 performance, do you think you're still on track for that?
And just a quick follow-up would be, when you look at the free cash flow and the conversion of
the SAP, what's the -- in terms of low hanging fruit that you see that you can take advantage of to
improve the free cash flow performance? Thanks a lot.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I can start and, Dominik, you can build on top of it. I mean with regard to the question, Stefan,
around the double-digit total revenue growth, I mean, Q1 we were pretty close to it, I have to say,
with 9% at constant. And, look, I mean, over the course of the year, we expect continued strong
cloud momentum, so the weight of our cloud revenue will become higher and higher. And, Iguess, it's fair to say from 2024 onwards, on SAP, we will deliver total revenue double-digit
growth as we just have such a high recurring revenue stream, and it will become a more and
more predictable business.
And with regard to the cloud revenue itself, maybe one last word to that. I actually have to
congratulate Scott and the team, and also, Scott, congratulations to your contract extension, very
happy to have you on board also for the upcoming years. I mean, with the launches what I've just
mentioned around SAP, GROW and Datasphere, I mean, we are also expanding now our
innovation pipeline and we actually will also harvest new bookings growth sources for the
quarters to come. So, we are actually very confident with regard to the total revenue growth and
double-digit in -- 2024 onwards on.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
On cash, I think, I mean, first and foremost, if you want to improve cash, you have to increase
profit and the kind of cash related part of the profit, so that's about cost management. But I want
to say that's kind of well embarked on our guidance. If you want to talk about cash conversion,
then you have to look into stuff like working capital. I know that in this context here, we have
discussed prepayments to certain suppliers. We have also, of course, the accounts receivable, so
collections is a big topic. And, yes, I do want to put more focus on that, because I do believe
there is some potential to secure a better cash conversion. And, also, our intention is really
around Sapphire conference to give you a little bit more logic behind how the kind of profit
converts into cash in our business model. So that's something I have on the agenda very clearly.
Q - `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Stefan. We will take the next question then.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi. Good afternoon, Christian and Dominik. Welcome as well from my side. If I can ask a question
more at the macro level, we've seen a number of peers in the US and elsewhere experiencing
some slowdown in demand, so you seem to be flagging some very strong growth in the US,
Germany, a number of Asian countries, so can you maybe explain a little bit whether there is a
shift in the type of projects, demand you're seeing, any verticals or regions where there was
some change in dynamics, any reprioritization of projects? I mean, cloud in particular is a big-ticket
organization, are you seeing any shift in the pace of demand for that? On the contrary, the kind of
underlying trends remain very much unchanged. Thank you.
A - `Scott Russell, Head of Customer Success `
Yeah. Maybe I'll -- Christian, I'll start. It's Scott here. So, I'll start and then maybe if you've got any
additional comments. So, first of all, I guess, this -- the macro conditions, SAP is not immune to
the macroeconomic environment that we're all experiencing and the uncertainty. But I thinkthere's a couple of key points that we are seeing, which is reflected not only in the results that
you see in Q1, but in the outlook, in the pipeline that we have.
Customers are focused on the main thing. They are focused on their mission critical processes,
workflows, data, to be able to serve their business. They are looking for profitable growth. And to
achieve that they need to make sure that their underlying technology, the architecture being
delivered in a reliable, scalable, innovative way in the cloud is able to be rendered and that's why
we see such strength in S/4 cloud, both in our public and private additions. And it means that they
are able to get the agility, they are able to handle uncertainty that the markets are undoubtedly
presenting to them.
So, whilst there might be different conditions for other cloud properties when it comes to the
core business processes in doing so in a reliable agile way, there is no doubt that that demand
continues to be strong, and we certainly have a positive expectation.
The second is what Christian mentioned before and I just want to reiterate the importance of the
launch of capabilities like Datasphere. Companies are not only looking to be able to have their
mission critical capability, but then they want an agile innovative platform that they can get
insights from that data real-time to be able with SAP and non-SAP data to make better decisions,
more timely decisions through their business process. So, the infusion of AI, the infusion of the
orchestration with their open ecosystem, we see strong demand.
So, I definitely see an expectation of shorter projects, shorter timeline of engagements. There is
no doubt that core process and data continues to be the key area and that plays to SAP's
strengths. That's where we are historically strong and the outlook, notwithstanding the
macroeconomic environment, continues to give us confidence going forward.
Christian, I don't know if you want to add.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Look, I guess, one important indicator is also trust. I mean, we are reporting current cloud backlog
ACV, but when you look at our TCV, the number is of course even much higher, because
especially our large enterprises, large clients, they really need time to fully migrate to the cloud.
But I'm not aware of any single project where customer announce that I going to stop or pause
my ERP migration, my supply chain, migration to the cloud. So, also, on the adoption side, we see
continuous and seamless execution.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you. And, if I may -- but on the cloud point, any change in dynamics in terms of private
versus public demand?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
As Scott just said, I mean, we have seen now an accelerated momentum in Q1. We reconfirmed
our outlook for the year, we see a very healthy and strong pipeline for the year. So, we're
currently thinking to execute strong in the cloud.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `Thank you, Fred. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Limited, UBS Limited. Go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Limited `
Yes. And good afternoon. You've obviously updated the guidance today for Qualtrics. There was
a couple of things in the Annual Report, which I guess were put there when Qualtrics was still part
of scope. And then this [ph] current cloud backlog would grow at basically the same rate as last
year at 24% and that you hope to be at a mid-70s gross margin in the cloud exiting the year. I
wonder if you can address those two matters? I mean, I guess Qualtrics is growing more slowly,
so presumably the cloud backlog growth rate should increase a bit from 24%?
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think, on the upgrade of the change of the guidance to continuing operation, we really try
to embark that one-for-one what was basically in the guidance of Qualtrics. And then what is true
is that, of course, the cloud. Gross margin of Qualtrics was higher than group average, so that has
a slightly dilutive effect in terms of one-for-one transmission of that, but we are driving the
absolute cloud gross margin very hard here.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And, I guess, Michael, important to note, what we also said last quarter is, when you look
actually at the second half of the year, but even more so next year, not only that S/4HANA and
BTP already growing stronger than Qualtrics today, but also our overall cloud revenue will also
then overpace the Qualtrics revenue. So, we see actually in the outer years that it will actually help
to accelerate our percentage growth rates, especially in the core business, but also for our
overall cloud revenue stream.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Limited `
Okay. And, also, Dominik, I think, the free cash flow guidance assume that you would have a high
triple-digit million factoring level in 2025. Can you just explain the logic of the factoring and
whether it's something you think makes sense?
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Michael, what I can explain is what we've seen to start with at the end of last year. So, basically,
we have two different types of transactions on that front. One is a very, I'd say, common vendor
financing-type of approach. I would call it, where we give a very extended payment terms with
certain customers with liquidity crunches. And as we don't want to become a bank, frankly,
because we have much better return opportunities in the operation business, we are selling
these. So, I think, that's the practice, which makes a lot of sense.
And now, on top of that, is also some more from our side induced factoring, which I need to look
into frankly. I understand this is embarked on the guidance, so it's not going in the numbers we
have shown you. On the cash flow update, we've done just an adjustment for Qualtrics, not for
any change on that front yet, but we're willing to stick our heads together also on that technique
whether that makes a lot of sense for us or not.Should we change that? And that would have, of course, an impact on the free cash flow one-for-
one is quite straightforward.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Michael. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Good afternoon, and thanks for taking the question. And, also, welcome, Dominik, welcome
from my side. And, I guess, this is for you, Dominik. I think it's always interesting to have a fresh
view on things, from a new CFO, and obviously you had step in and assume a guidance that had
been made previously by the company. I think the feedback generally has been you've been
seems to be more cautious on guidance in previous roles. Could you just talk a little bit about the
work that you've done to get yourself comfortable with the outlook for this year? And how you
see that outlook relative to how you've guided and what you've looked at in previous companies
in previous roles, please? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Sure. I mean, I'm not quite sure how I earned that reputation. I always try to provide as
accurate guidance as possible, as humanly possible, but still of course there's uncertainties
around guidance, which also means that the further you move out, the more difficult it is to do so.
So, kudos to the team here who had the courage to go for that kind of 2025 guidance at a time
where they have entered into a very difficult transition. So, I'm really impressed how closely we've
been tracking to that now with the benefit of hindsight vision.
And now -- and, of course, I got myself comfortable with that guidance, otherwise I wouldn't sit
here and read it out to you. I think, it has been very solidly derived with a lot of logic and, yes, I did
spend quite some time on that. And I will now really focus, from now till Sapphire, on what's
happening over the next couple of years. But so far, I'm very encouraged by the solidity and
insightful way this has been derived. But don't forget, there is this kind of already 82% of more
predictable revenues, so that frankly makes it a little bit easier. And, obviously, when you have a
business model that has less uncertainty, it's also easier to predict and then you don't need to
kind of, yeah, put some cushion in for imponderable ability. So, I think, the quality of the business
model is also part of how precisely you can guide or not.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Adam. We will take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Toby Ogg, Analyst, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Go ahead. Your line is open.Q - `Toby Ogg, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Yes. Hi. Thanks for taking the question. And welcome from my side as well, Dominik. Just on the
free cash flow, EUR1.95 billion, I know we've talked about the various moving parts there, working
capital, restructuring, extra licenses in the quarter with a bit of tailwind. Just looking forward on
that, what specifically gives you the confidence that you can achieve the EUR4.9 billion guidance
for the year? And then just more broadly, Dominik, you talked about certain aspects of the
working capital there, what are some of the other aspects of the business that are going to be a
priority for you? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, for this year, I mean, of course, we have a very, very detailed bottom-up process,
which we kind of vetted extensively and it comes to that kind of conclusion. And on top of that,
you can use some rule of thumb. I mean, I already alluded to that in my intro statement, in Q1, if
you really back out that kind of factoring impact, which was weighing on Q1, you back out the kind
of mid double-digit millions, which have already been paid out of the EUR260 million restructuring
plan. You're actually seeing that the cash flow is quite nicely, kind of, scaling in comparison to prior
year with the improvement in operating profit. Now, there's also tax component you might want
to consider.
And if you do the same math from -- for the full year and you consider that, probably the full
EUR260 million will be paid out on the restructuring side, and then you embark also that. And on
the factoring side, you assume, well, we continue to do it, so no impact of that. You are in that
ballpark. So, I don't see why this should be a number that couldn't fly and now we have to see, as
discussed, what we do on the factoring, if anything, and also what potential is there in the
working capital to get something out of it.
The other big kind of offset is, of course, the delta between cash settled and equity settled
stock-based compensation, where we have now the benefit that over time there will be more
and more equity settles, and then we have to think about how we cope with the dilution of that,
of course. So that's another important topic.
And last, but not least, besides the working capital, there is always the question about what do
you amortize, what do you capitalize, so there is the bonuses on the commissions for new deals
and there is, of course, the capital expenditures we have to do. So, this is what we need to
analyze and what I'm trying to achieve is to really come to a simple model that what do we need.
If we want to grow by EUR1 billion of revenues, what is the kind of absorption of capital once we
have reached this 2025 business model? Because, I guess, that is what kind of drives your
valuation models and this is something I really want to spend quite some time on in the coming
weeks.
Q - `Toby Ogg, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Toby. And we'll take the next question, please.
OperatorYes. The next question comes from the line of `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein with Bernstein. Go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein `
Thank you very much for taking my questions. Congratulations on the strong quarter when so
many others are seeing weakness, especially in cloud. Dominik, welcome on board and we're
looking forward to spending time with you. We saw a really nice acceleration in the gross margin
of the business platform, can you give us more color on what is driving the margin improvement?
How you see the trajectory of that margin going forward? And how does this translate into overall
S/4HANA Cloud gross margin? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Mark, happy to take that question. I mean, look, you know, with every RISE deal, but actually
also with every LOB deal we are going to sell, in the future, the business technology platform is
front and center. And we just also got great Gartner waiting, but, in the meantime, we have the
best integration suite, and we see an extremely high adoption not only SAP-to-SAP, where we are
heavily criticized for and which we really now fixed and are leading, but also to non-SAP. I mean,
you just have heard about all of our announcement and we also have a very open API layer on the
platform, which is really API-first in across all of our products.
And then second, even more important, we see that -- of course, our own services organization,
but even more so the ecosystem, where we have over 500,000 SAP consultants out there, that
they're doing with us the move from Net Weaver to BTP end. Our promise is, we are not only
lifting and shifting ERPs and supply chains to the cloud, we are also transforming those and
reduce complexity. And now when the whole application logic sits on BTP, the easiest thing is then
to build all of these industry LOB extensions on the platform, which drives consumption, adoption
and with that more and more cloud revenue. For me, personally, the BTP is one of the biggest
growth assets we have in the years to come.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein `
Excellent. Thank you so much.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Mark. Operator, we can take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays. Go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. A financial one for me to welcome Dominik. I mean, there's a
debate in the market on the OpEx intensity of SAP, you've got global peers cutting heads in
costs, but of course investors also wanting SAP to investor growth. So, wondered if I can ask you
about your first impressions around the sort of cost ratios in the business and maybe specifically
what that means for the current restructuring program and how much of that needs to necessarily
be reinvested in the business in your view?And, also, specifically on stock-based compensation, you explained why it slightly elevated at the
moment because of the stock price, it's approaching 7% of sales. I mean, should we expect that
to trend back down towards sort of more 5% of sales over time in line with previous comments?
Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think, OpEx, in general, it's true that in comparison to what I've seen in prior industries.
There are some things which strike here, which is a very, very high on go-to-market cost, but I still
need to learn better why that's necessary. I think, as a customer -- former customer of SAP, I see
there are so many well entrenched customers, where it's now really about, what I call was
gardening the situation as opposed to hunting and normally the gardening has to be very
technical discussion, but I'm sure that Scott will have his views on that.
Research and development, we have a very broad portfolio. So, I'm not sure it's totally
comparable to real pure play companies, but I think that's also the beauty of our portfolio that we
can do that upsell and cross-sell. And I also have a philosophy that on research and development
in every category you tackle, you really want to be leading in terms of the resources, you can
commit to that, because the tech business is a winner takes it all business, so we have to keep
careful on that front.
And in admin, there's, of course, always opportunities to get some operating leverage out by
growing without growing the G&A base. So, I would hope to see the G&A base being diluted
over time. We are SAP, we are standing for productivity improvements, automating -- automation
and we really have to lead by example here. So, there are certainly some opportunities now.
Stock-based compensation, I guess, I have of course done the kind of -- ask people how they
came up with these kind of numbers and it makes sense. It is actually something that we clearly
acknowledge as an economic burden. So, it's not funny money, that's just not there for me, as a
newcomer to the industry, it's kind of baffling to see that all these other companies get away with
kind of that non-SBC or pre-SBC numbers, so we have to think about what we do. We see that
some large companies are changing the path there and that's also something we have to make
up our mind on. But, clearly, that's the thing we need to watch on how do we avoid dilution to a
larger degree for our shareholders.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you. And by way of quick follow-up, could I just ask if the Board has reached any
conclusions on the use of the Qualtrics proceeds? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, first of all, the proceeds are not in the bank yet, so we are going to close the transactions in
the second half of the year. And the answer is frankly no. But, of course, it's an item we have on
the agenda. And what I want to say, it's, from my perspective, providing us with great optionality. I
mean, the deployment of the capital, what we can do with it, it's crystal clear. And so, we have --
need to establish our pecking order, so to speak, and of course it also depends on the strategic
part, so we have some colleagues in the room who are taking care of that.
Again, coming here, what is very interesting is the huge organic growth opportunity we have. So, I
always like to be in a situation where M&A is a tool, which can be done with kind of cold-blooded
leap on the merits of the strategy, on the merits of the financials. We are not desperate to doanything, because we have a strong organic growth opportunity. But still, there might be
opportunities even with lower valuations and that will play a role too.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays `
Understood. Many thanks.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, James. And we will take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research with Citi Investment Research. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research `
Thank you. Good morning and good afternoon, all. `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research from Citi. And welcome
from my side as well, Dominik. Look forward to working with you. The question I have is with
regards to how SAP is thinking about supporting not just cloud deployments, but also on-premise
deployments going forward, particularly as it relates to driving through new innovation? There is
still a significant proportion of your base that potentially needs to be migrated or likely to want to
stay on on-premise longer, so would appreciate your thoughts on the same? Where we are
today? How much is left to go? And how are you thinking about balancing on-premise versus
cloud? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I can start and then, Scott, please also build on top of it. It's a very good question and we'd love
to answer it. And now, first, I mean, look, we have a huge installed base, which is, first of all, a gift
to have. And then second, what we now already communicated that there is the end of standard
maintenance for all the ERP release is lower than S/4HANA by the end of 2027. And I really would
like to also say this today very clearly, there will be no extension of this timeline, because why?
Because at the end, we want to also use our R&D capacity and investments in the most effective
way and there are so many new technologies, which we really want to embark on, that we really
wanted to deploy those in the cloud, where also customers, by the way, get the most value out
of it just when we look at the announcements we are doing around Sapphire, around ChatGPT.
And then you also have to see that the world is becoming more and more isolated. And we
actually differentiate also against many others in the market around our investments into
globalization, into low -- adhering to local regulations, data privacy requirements, and this is of
course what we continue to do, but cannot continue to do for all the other releases out there
below S/4HANA. And that's why we definitely want to stick to our commitment to not expand our
maintenance commitments, standard maintenance commitment beyond 2027 for everything
below S/4HANA.
Scott?
A - `Scott Russell, Head of Customer Success `
Yeah. The only thing that I would add just from a customer perspective, Christian, just to add on
the large installed base that we have, the customer base have already made the decision to
move to the cloud. But what is really clear is, their journey will defer, their transformation journeydiffers. So, a bit of a reminder with the move with RISE when we announced it, it wasn't just a
target architecture of being in the cloud, but it was helping customers on a transformation
journey that fit their landscape. Some will have a longer period of time in leveraging their on-
premise architecture, others go straight to a greenfield in the cloud using our public edition. No
matter what the journey, there are other capabilities that SAP brings to the table. Christian talked
about the platform of growth of the BTP. That is across all of our customer base, let alone our
other best-in-class line of business applications and our leadership in sustainability, in supply chain.
So, I guess, my feedback is, all customers are moving to a cloud-based architecture. They want
the innovation, they want the ability for us to serve in a local regulatory align framework, but also
they want the innovation adoption at speed and -- but then they've got a transformation
roadmap with SAP, white-glove treatment to help them get there in their terms. I think that's
different. Most of the cloud companies will offer an outcome, but don't give too much guidance
about how to get there. What SAP does is, really links into the journey and that makes it much
easier for customers to navigate the way forward and still benefit from where we are investing
and innovating.
Q - `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citi Investment Research `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Amit. And we will take time for two more questions, so we can take the next one,
please.
Operator
Yes. The next question comes from the line of `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore ISI of -- with Evercore ISI. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Yeah. Thanks very much, and congrats on the solid first quarter results. I was wondering -- I don't
know if this for Christian or Scott, but can you all just talk about sort of where we are on the cloud
portfolio outside of S/4HANA? Just where those businesses are? It looks like pretty stable low
double-digit growth. Do you feel like they can accelerate? Sort of, what should we be thinking
about sort of the cloud business outside of S/4HANA over the next 12 months? Or are there
some -- some of the puts and takes there? Thanks.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I can start and then, Scott, please comment as well. I mean, first of all, when you look at our win
rates, there's no doubt and that's why I'm also so hopeful with regard to our new offering in Core
[ph] with SAP that our win rates even standalone for net new are extremely high in the ERP and
the platform business.
Of course, in the LOBs, it's a tougher environment, but very important. SAP is winning in all of the
cases where we can expand from the core. So, you heard HCL when we talk about total
workforce management, and you talk about new ways of packaging certain offerings. This all has
to work together, yeah, with the payroll, with the finance system of HCL. And, also, very important
to mention here CX. We do a restructuring in this area, but we are fully betting on CX just in a
different way always when we are leading with our industry capabilities, where I actually claim thatcustomers like Core, where we can talk about customer loyalty, where we need data from the
ERP, where we can also build end-to-end value chains with commerce connected to the inventory
to the supply chains. This is where we are winning. This is what we are following.
And then we will also see -- we also see very strong win rates in the other lines of businesses and
I'm actually very, very happy to see Concur. I mean, of course, without any relation to the product
itself, they went through hard times with the pandemic and they delivered another very strong
quarter. So, I'm very happy to also see Concur back on track.
Scott?
A - `Scott Russell, Head of Customer Success `
Yeah. Maybe two additional comments, if I can add to what you described, Christian. The first is
our core LOB solutions outside of S/4HANA Cloud and BTP are actually still growing quite
strongly, and Christian mentioned Concur as a good example of that. So, double-digit revenue
growth that are strong, each of them have their own competitive markets and dimensions, but
the portfolio strengthens. And I do want to highlight transaction volumes, particularly Concur, BTP,
Reber, et cetera, where we're seeing a higher the supply network, where we're seeing higher
transaction volumes come back, which also helps from a sustainable revenue growth.
The second comment there I would make, and we'll share more of these at Sapphire in more
detail, but the ability for us to upsell, cross-sell our broader portfolio once you've got the basis
for cloud and BTP, the multiples are undeniable. So, as our customers move their mission critical
processes in the cloud, then their ability and the ease of which they can expand the SAP portfolio,
whether it'd be supply chain, procurement, contingent, labor, HR, they're able to do so in a really
agile way and that comes on the back of the real heavy lifting our engineering teams have done
around the integration of the SAP portfolio that Christian mentioned before, that now comes to
life to our customers. So that gives me confidence that the two go hand-in-hand. It's not about
winning only in those independent markets, but the portfolio coming together and make it easier
for customers to get the innovation value that they're looking for.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Kirk. And then we will take time for one final question.
Operator
Yes. The final question comes from the line of `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you. Hi, Christian. Hi, Dominik. Dominik, nice to speak to you. Dominik, my question is
around sort of SAP's sort of cost structure as you look kind of going forward. No doubt there's
going to be leverage around the sort of gross margin, but as you look at some of the other line
items, where do you think there's sort of scope for kind of efficiency? And I know, Christian,
you've talked about potentially some R&D leverage in kind of the current plan, but as you talk
about the great organic opportunities and given you are unlikely to do any large-scale M&A, how
do you think of some of the kind of leverage areas around the cost outside of the gross margin?
Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `Well, I think, there is, of course, the kind of natural pecking order in that type of industry, what are
the things that need to scale with revenues, what are the things that can be kind of providing
some good operating leverage. It's a little premature frankly for me to now jump to conclusions
to say this is what we're going to do, but what I can say is that, whenever I've seen business really
delivering improvements on that front, these were really kind of quantum leaps, it was more
about kind of grinding over many years where people have been driving operational excellence
by continuous improvement and I think there are great opportunities. And, frankly, I think the low
hanging fruit is probably harvested and we have to now, yeah, deploy some more sophisticated
techniques and what I would like to see here is that we create to spin that flywheel more strongly
with a strong focus on free cash flow. And so, don't expect any wild leaps in the near term on
that. It will be a grinding work over many years to really mature the margin side even further.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And just a few comments from my side. I mean, today, also for me personally, it's a very
important point in our transformation. I mean, we came to you 2.5 years ago with the new
guidance and we also asked you to give us the permission for certain investments to reduce our
technical depth and we did our homework looking at the cost margin and the cost profit
performance in Q1. I hope you see that we delivered. Now to Dominik's point, we have to find
also additional levers and, I mean, good pieces. Yes, we have those.
I mean, first of all, when you look at this RISE contracts in cloud, it's all around the economies of
scale and especially in the outer years this is where still a lot of workloads will be migrated to the
cloud and that actually allows us to scale the cloud operations also in -- at a higher scale.
And, second, I mean, Thomas and Juergen, they will continue to invest, and we want to
emphasize, no additional invest, but they will continue to invest, also, in continuously modernizing
our technical stack. That is just a foundational topic for -- when you want to stay relevant in the
cloud and to always sit on the latest and greatest technology. So, no matter if it's about the
elasticity of our database, no matter if it's about reducing the work you have to put in in patching
and supporting the stack. And so, by the way, ChatGPT will play even a role in that, in cyber, in the
support of our cloud systems. So, we have additional levers, and we will continuously work on
that.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good play. Thank you, Christian and Dominik.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Right. Thank you, Christian; and thank you. Moawalla. So -- and this concludes our call for today.
Thanks for joining.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, everyone.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, the conference has now concluded, and you may disconnect your
telephone. Thank you for joining, and have a pleasant day. Goodbye.