Q2 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome and thank you for joining the SAP Q2
2023 Earnings Conference call. Throughout today's recorded presentation, all participants will be
in a listen-only mode. The presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the conference over to `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief
Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Good day, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us. With me today are CEO, Christian
Klein; CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer; and `Scott Russell, Head of Customer Success, who leads Customer Success.
On this call, we will discuss SAP's Q2 and first half 2023 results. You can find the deck
supplementing this call, as well as our quarterly statement on our Investor Relations website.
During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to materially differ.
Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may be found in our filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to the Risk Factors section of
SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2022. Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are
non-IFRS and growth rates, percentage point changes, and our 2023 financial outlook are non-
IFRS at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide should not be
considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in
accordance with IFRS.Before we start, I would like to remind you that that SAP completed the sale of its stake in
Qualtrics in June of this year. Therefore, all figures shared on this call are based on SAP group
results from continuing operations.
And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you, Anthony. And as always, thanks for joining us for our earnings call today. This has
been a good Q2. At the halfway point of 2023, SAP continues to perform well, despite a
macroeconomic environment that remains uncertain. After reaching the turning point in our
transformation, our sharpened focus has yielded real momentum. And we are seeing strong
demand across our portfolio. Customers are looking to our game-changing solutions to foster
sustainable end-to-end business processes across diverse industries on a global scale.
It is also worth pausing on the watershed moment we are experiencing with generative AI. It's
clear that generative AI will fundamentally change the way businesses run. In the business world,
no one is better positioned than SAP to empower businesses to take advantage of this
transformational moment, giving them the solutions to harness AI to improve business outcomes.
We believe we are uniquely placed to become the leader in business AI. At our most recent
Sapphire conference in May, we shared specifics of our AI approach with SAP Business AI. Later
on in my remarks today, I will talk in more detail about our ambitions on this front.
So let's first turn to a summary of our numbers. In Q2, operating profit grew at an impressive
28%, up from 12% in Q1, clearly demonstrating the strengths of this new phase in our
transformation. This puts us in a strong position as we work towards our goal of double-digit
operating profit growth in 2023. Current cloud backlog stands at over EUR11.5 billion with
continued strong growth, up 25% this quarter.
Cloud revenue continues to grow steadily at 22%, and total Q2 revenue grew at 8%. For S/4HANA
specifically, cloud revenue grew 79%, up from 75% in Q1 and current cloud backlog grew 70%.
Our results this quarter demonstrate the strengths of our solutions in addressing the specific
needs of our customers during challenging times. Customers are choosing SAP to help them
transform their business processes, collaborate across their supply chain, and operate
sustainably.
RISE with SAP continues to be the preferred choice for customers adopting the SAP portfolio to
transform the end-to-end business processes in the cloud. Key new RISE deals this quarter
include Bayer HE and Bacardi-Martini. As one of the world's largest pharma and biotech
companies, Bayer chose RISE with SAP to facilitate its extensive business transformation program
known as CORE. Bacardi is the world's largest privately-owned international spirits company with
a portfolio of more than 200 brands. They have chosen RISE with SAP to meet their ambitious
growth targets. There were also a number of important RISE go-lives this quarter, including
HanesBrands, Levi's, Tech Mahindra, and Versuni.
Tech Mahindra of India deployed RISE with SAP in record time, going live in just 3.5 months.
Versuni, a new company formed from Philips Domestic Appliance undertook one of the largest
RISE transformations ever, and it was completed in just 18 months. The success of RISE with SAP is
clear. This is SAP's signature offering, which helps customers move to the cloud and transform
their business processes at the same time.
It's also very important to emphasize that SAP's newest innovations and capabilities will only be
delivered in SAP Public Cloud and SAP Private Cloud using RISE with SAP as the enabler. This ishow we will deliver these innovations with speed, agility, quality, and efficiency. Our new
innovations will not be available for on-premise or hosted on-premise ERP customers on
hyperscalers. For example, new ERP capabilities, as well as sustainability and carbon accounting
solutions, and all our new AI innovations will only be available in the cloud and delivered via RISE
and grow with SAP.
Last quarter, we introduced the powerful new offering, Grow with SAP, designed for mid-market
customers who are new to SAP and likely to be growing quickly as they build their businesses.
Grow has quickly become popular, just like RISE with SAP, for which around half of the customers
are net new to the SAP family. The momentum I've described with both RISE and Grow with SAP is
underpinned by the SAP business technology platform.
This is the foundation for integration and extensibility across our portfolio. We have reached an
important milestone this quarter with over 20,000 live BTP cloud customers. This quarter, new
wins included Visa, the world leader in digital payments; and Santander, the Spanish financial
multinational who are using SAP business technology platform to revolutionize and streamline the
banking experience. Increasing adoption of S/4HANA and the SAP business technology platform
is also driving significant cross and upsell opportunities across our portfolio.
Let's now discuss the latest updates to our approach with SAP business AI. As I said earlier, we
believe we are uniquely placed to become the leader in AI built for business. Customers will
benefit from new AI-powered solutions that step change how processes can self-learn and self-
automate to self-optimize business outcomes. For example, imagine supply chains that
automatically initiate a different delivery route based on weather and congestion data. There will
be a step change in how employees can interact with solutions in radically more efficient and
personalized ways. For instance, imagine your ERP system using embedded ESG data and
business data to decarbonize the supply chain by 5% simply by asking for it. And there will be a
step change in uncovering new insights that lead to better business decisions. Imagine one
trusted data layer across your entire company that enables AI to pull together the right data in
seconds.
This will bring us significant opportunities for market expansion through new AI-based solutions
and new premium offerings. Based on external forecasts and our own calculations, we see a
potential doubling of our addressable market to $1 trillion by 2028, with AI being a key contributor.
We will be introducing new premium-wise offerings with an uplift of up to 30% in the fall. Our
approach with SAP Business AI is unmatched in the industry, delivering our customers the most
relevant, reliable, and responsible AI built for business.
Firstly, our AI is relevant, because it's embedded into every part of our portfolio. More than
24,000 SAP Cloud customers today can already use SAP Business AI across hundreds of built-in
AI capabilities and partner use cases. To provide a couple of new tangible examples, in SAP
Transportation Management, generative AI will save up to 55% of the processing cost of delivery
notes. The new intelligent collections in SAP S/4HANA Finance can reduce the time between
invoice and payment by up to 10%.
Secondly, based on unique business data and business process context, we can deliver the most
reliable business AI. Reliable AI hinges on applying the right data to the right model. By using SAP
Datasphere to leverage substantial context-rich, industry-specific data, business AI system can
drastically improve accuracy, generate more relevant content, and minimize AI hallucinations.
Thirdly, responsible AI is not a buzzword for us. Our customers trust us with their most critical
data, and can confidently deploy our AI offerings, knowing we prioritize the highest levels ofsecurity, privacy, compliance, and ethics. We comply with the highest standards when it comes to
customer consent, security, GDPR regulations. This is what SAP stands for. We will continue to
innovate and deliver by creating an AI ecosystem for the future, combining SAP and partner
innovation built on the SAP business technology platform.
Let me give you some examples of this approach. At SAP Sapphire, we announced a partnership
with Microsoft to collaborate on joint generative AI offerings to help customers address the talent
gap with new recruitment and development tools. Last week, SAP Sapphire Ventures, the
technology-focused VC backed by SAP, announced that it will dedicate $1 billion to AI-powered
enterprise technology startups. Earlier this week, we announced strategic investments in three
leading generative AI companies, Aleph Alpha, Anthropic, and Cohere. In the fall, we plan to
announce new AI solutions and capabilities across our portfolio.
All told, we see a huge opportunity with new innovation in AI and believe SAP is uniquely poised
to help customers take advantage of this watershed moment. As our Q2 results show, SAP
continues to deliver. We are optimistic about the future based on SAP's core value of delivering
technologies that build stronger companies. As we start the second half of the year, we remain
fully committed to delivering on our promise of accelerated revenue and profit growth. This is
reflected in our increased guidance for cloud and software revenue and for operating profit.
In closing, let me quickly look back on what we have accomplished in recent years. Our own
transformation into a cloud company, our leaner and more agile operating structure, new
offerings that bring the power of SAP to more companies, solutions that harness the power of
data wherever it resides, and tools that create sustainable business processes across industries.
Now is another threshold moment. While nearly every company is working on the AI revolution in
some way, no one sits at the nexus of technology and business like SAP. And we think there is
enormous opportunity ahead.
Dominik, over to you.
`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Christian, and good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased with our second
quarter's growth in non-IFRS operating profit, putting some upward pressure on our outlook on
that metric for the full fiscal year 2023. In Q2, we also maintained a steady growth of our cloud
business with current cloud backlog and cloud revenue again growing by 25% and 22% year-over-
year, respectively. The trend towards larger cloud transactions continued with deals greater than
EUR5 million in volume contributing to nearly half of our cloud order entry. As a reminder, on June
28, SAP completed the sale of its stake in Qualtrics. Therefore, the following results are for
continuing operations. Let me talk you through our financial performance in more detail.
Current cloud backlog was EUR1.5 billion growing by 25%, with S/4HANA current cloud backlog
growing by 70% driven by the and the continued strong adoption of RISE with SAP. Our combined
SaaS and PaaS portfolio continued to grow by 26%, with SaaS cloud revenue up 22% and PaaS
cloud revenue up 45%. The sustained momentum was again fueled by the strong contribution of
S/4HANA cloud and the business technology platform. Software licenses revenue saw a decrease
by 24%. Total revenue was up 8% year-over-year, demonstrating the great resilience of our
overall business in the current macro environment.
Now, let's take a brief look at our regional performance. In the second quarter, all regions
delivered strong cloud performance, Germany, Brazil, and India had outstanding cloud revenue
growth, while the United States, the Netherlands, France, China and Chile performed particularlysupported by the completion of SAP's next-generation cloud delivery program. This marks a key
milestone in terms of portfolio integration and harmonization for our customers. This, in turn,
resulted in cloud gross margin improving from the year-ago period, expanding by 1.1 percentage
points to 72.2%.
In the second quarter, both IFRS as well as non-IFRS operating profit increased by 28%, mainly
driven by sustained high growth in cloud revenue, the completion of the next-gen cloud delivery
program, efficiency gains resulting from spending discipline across the entire organization, as well
as a gradual relief from the impacts of the war in Ukraine.
Additionally, our IFRS operating profit benefited from restructuring expenses in Q2 last year, but
was negatively affected by higher share-based compensation expenses primarily due to share
price development over the quarter. Finally, the operating margin landed at 27.2%, a 4.4
percentage point improvement compared to the prior period. Earnings per share in the quarter
increased 12% to EUR1.07. The IFRS effective tax rate for Q2 was 33.8% and the non-IFRS tax rate
was 30.4%. The reduction of the IFRS effective tax rate from Q1 to Q2 mainly resulted from the
increase in profit before taxes.
Now, looking to our cash generation. Free cash flow for Q2 significantly increased to EUR604
million, driven by the strong expansion of operating profit and the reduction of payments
primarily for share-based compensation, but also for CapEx and leasing.
Now, let's move on to our financial outlook. As you have seen in today's release, we are updating
our revenue and operating profit outlook for the full year for continuing operations. The outlook
range for cloud and software revenue is being narrowed by moving the lower end slightly up,
despite moving the upper end of the range of cloud revenues down, the latter being mainly
driven by lower than anticipated transactional revenue. As a result of this slight shift in mix and
overall marginally higher midpoint of our cloud and software revenue outlook, the operating
profit outlook range has been increased accordingly. Note that this update implicitly leaves the
overall margin profile intact for the year and provides confidence in achieving the free cash flow
outlook, which is reaffirmed. As you know, our 2023 financial outlook is based on constant
currency assumptions, i.e. a prior year's exchange rate of $1.05 per EUR1.
Let's now discuss our non-financial targets. The non-financial outlook for 2023 is reiterated. In Q2,
SAP once again achieved net carbon emissions of zero kilotons. Our focus continues to be on
reaching net zero emissions across our value chain by 2030. To get there, we are establishing a
multi-phased supply chain engagement program with our suppliers to significantly reduce our
upstream greenhouse gas emissions. As a first step, we are working with our top 100 suppliers to
ensure they report emissions at product level and follow a net zero plan, leveraging our own
technology to do so.
Our first-half results give us confidence that we're heading in the right direction and continue to
be well-established and positioned to achieve our revenue and profit growth goals for the -- the
resilience of our businesses, combined with the focus and cost discipline across the organization,
are evidenced by strong profit growth. Q2 results continue to demonstrate that SAP has entered
the second phase of its transformation, characterized by sustained cloud momentum now turning
into significant profit growth.
In addition, we are laser-focused on our core and continue to streamline the business as
demonstrated successful divestiture of Qualtrics in the last quarter. We firmly believe that we
offer best-in-class solutions to our customers, serving as their trusted strategic partner in their
digital transformation journey.Thank you, and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
All right. And I would like to kindly remind you to only ask one question if possible when
prompted. So operator, please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions). One moment for the first question, please. And the first question comes from the
line of `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited with JPMorgan Cazenove Limited. Please go ahead.
Q - `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited `
Yes. Hi, and thanks for the question. Perhaps just firstly on the cloud revenue side, Dominik, you
mentioned the transactional revenues there as the driver of the shortfall. Give us a sense for
what you're seeing there with respect to those transactional revenues and whether you're seeing
any other macro headwinds across any of the other lines of business applications outside of
S/4HANA? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
So I think on the transactional side, what types of businesses are in there, it's the kind of travel
expense Concur Tool, external workforce, contingent labor, Fieldglass, business network
transactions, and where we really took a little bit of a hit was on the Fieldglass contingent
workforce side. There, indeed, the macro with low flows and reduced levels of contingent
workforce was actually slightly shrinking. So that was a little bit of a headwind, which was not
expected to that degree. Otherwise, I'd say it's pretty much in line.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I guess, Toby, maybe just to build on that, Scott can also give a sentiment on the pipeline. I
mean, being out there, we definitely see no slowdown in our SaaS and PaaS business. I mean,
S/4HANA, the cloud, when you even accelerate it once again, the BGP, the platform, sees more
and more adoption. Now, also with the clean core, it's not only very important for the integration,
but also for building the extensions, for new -- building new apps, either by our customers,
partners or SAP. And then thirdly, I mean, for half year two, also when you look at the geopolitics, I
guess we see really strong demand also still on -- relying on SAP in order to be able to do
business in over 130 countries.
So just coming back from China, we see a huge demand on for our software of doing business in
China for China. Or when you look at the utilities or retail and auto, I mean, they continue that
transformation full speed. And you need the ERP supply chain procurement systems there in
order to run these new businesses. And then last but not least, as we are building already,
hundreds of UI use cases for machine learning and embedding that with generative AI, we
definitely also see now stronger demand on also moving out to the next generation ERP in the
cloud, because only there our customers can consume all these new innovations, that will help as
well to drive further momentum in half year too.Q - `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited `
That's great. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. So we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America `
Hi. Good evening, Frederic, Bank of America. A question on the balance sheet now that Qualtrics
is now closed. Any further thoughts on what's the optimal leverage for SAP, what's the right
capital allocation? Would you consider increasing the EUR5 million buyback absent any large M&A
opportunities or we want to keep powder dry considering opportunities in AI and elsewhere?
Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Indeed, our balance sheet right now is very strong. I think, we have snapped back to a net cash
position of EUR4.2 billion. We've also already announced that the lion's share of the proceeds will
be invested in a share repurchase, which will stretch through 2025, and this will be commenced
very shortly. So for the time being, let's also look at what opportunities there might be on the
M&A side for the time being. I don't want to kind of make more commitments than what we have
already said with regards to the EUR5 million share repurchase, but it is true that we have a very
strong balance sheet and are very much able to act.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Fred. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Adam Wood, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking the question. I wanted to come back to that subject of AI. I
wonder if you could talk a little bit about how you're applying AI internally and what cost benefits
you see from that? And how that balances against the need for you to increase R&D investments
to deliver on the AI functionality you're talking about putting in apps? And could you talk a little bit
about how the time frame of delivering on those two things might be different and one might
come before the other? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So Adam, thanks for the question. I mean, to shed a further light and give you better insights
into the product and the tech and the commercials on how we go to market. I mean, first, it's very
important to emphasize, I mean, we have today around about 300 AI use cases. And for
example, take Lidl Kaufland, they actually have massive demand forecast data, over 400 input
levels going into the demand forecast. We are taking this data, petabytes of data, and analyzingit to predict better demand. And now they can actually have optimized their inventory and their
supply chain costs by over 10%, which is massive for a company of the size and scale of Kaufland
and Lidl, and this is here. And so now we have certain scenarios on cash flow automation, and
where we actually -- could actually improve the DSO by 10%. We have many of these examples.
Now with generative AI, we really sit on a data of over 400,000 customers, and the material
flows, the financial flows, employee, customer data. And now we are taking this data not only with
Signavio to benchmark and give business process recommendations. I mean, we see it in the first
prototypes that we are going to be able to not only that the system can self-learn on this data on
how to improve all these workflows. No, no, no. The systems itself will also drive further
automation of workflows going forward. They can look into the customization of an ERP, which is
huge in on-prem. They can help customers to generate code on the platform to build
differentiating capabilities to fasten the time to value.
And last but not least, I just did something yesterday where we said, hey, when I have a skill gap
here in my company and that in that space, from where did I hire the best skills in the past, in
which country, from which university? And the system gives you unbelievable smart
recommendations. And this is something what SAP can do. And this is where we're going to
launch further generative AI use cases. They will come with a 30% premium, because we believe
in the immense value and we see how customers respond to that.
And we are going to embed that in every RISE, in every GROW, in every LOB deal going forward.
This will not be like, okay, here's our generative AI portfolio. No, no, this will be embedded,
because there we also believe that our sales team and our partners can sell it best when it
comes integrated with our application portfolio.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Adam.
Q - `Adam Wood, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) And the next question is from the line of `Michael J. Briest, UBS Limited with UBS
Limited. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, UBS Limited `
Thank you. Good evening. Just on the cash flow actually Dominik, I noticed that you've cut your
CapEx outlook for the year by about EUR50 million, and obviously, you've raised the profit target
by EUR50 million less the pre-cash flow goal for the year unchanged. It still feels like the free cash
flow is part of the business that needs maybe more work than other parts. What are you actually
doing to improve it? And how linear should we think about the progression to the EUR7.5 billion in
2025 to be?
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `I mean, the key levers on free cash flow are quite obviously on the profit side first and then
working capital, and of course, also the CapEx and leasing part of it, which should be kept as low
as possible. We are, as we speak, starting to initiate pressure on these matrices to improve the
cash conversion. I think for the current fiscal year, and we're on a good trajectory. If you just look
at the phasing of H1 versus H2, as we've seen in prior year, you take that kind of receivable sale
into account and that kind of was at the year -- in last year into H1, Q1 to be precise than this year.
You see that we're actually a little bit ahead of that kind of completion rate. So for this year, we're
fine now. And how linear or not, that will be through 2025, I find it challenging to predict, because
that is really notoriously difficult to predict. But obviously, we have that kind of ambition 2025 very
firmly in mind and would need to show some progress between '23 and '25 to give you
confidence about that kind of materializing. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Michael. And we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. Christian, you referred to those three strategic investments
you made on the AI side, Aleph Alpha, Cohere and Anthropic. Can you maybe talk a little bit
more about what each of those really bring to the technology side for you and where you feel
those assets are really uniquely positioned and how they can help you become more competitive
on the AI side? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. To give you two examples, take Aleph Alpha, they have very good technology, not that they
can only integrate their large language models with our own, but they actually also are able to put
their large language models and their technology in the customer's data center. Now you can
imagine when you talk to a public sector customer in the European Union, this is actually a unique
selling point for them to keep the data in their data center while actually also having access to
their SAP data, and then really build one model for generative AI for these type of customers with
Cohere. We are seeing that they have unbelievable good also technology for businesses, for
B2B. So we are using them in retail and in some others where we already in some concrete
customer projects where we are applying our technology, and also go to market together. And of
course you're doing these investments also to have a seat at the table.
I mean, they, we want to have them as part of our huge ecosystem because while we are sitting
on immense valuable data, data, our offering becomes even stronger if we can also embed non-
SAP content and data. This is what we are also doing with these investments, to have them on
our side and make our AI offering even more valuable.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you, Johannes. And we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `James Goodman, Barclays Capital with Barclays Capital. Go ahead.Q - `James Goodman, Barclays Capital `
Yes. Good evening. Thank you. And I wanted to ask on the EBIT upgrade of EUR50 million. I think
EBIT this quarter was over EUR100 million, I think it was EUR50 million last quarter. So really, the
question is, why not a little bit more generous in terms of the EBIT upgrade? I think the low-end
of the full-year guide now implies a decline year-on-year in the second half. Just I guess, as part
of that, the statement notes that you completed the converged cloud project, I think, early in Q2.
Is that right? And if so, why not more of an impact on the cloud gross margin, SaaS? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe on the upgrade, I mean, this was, and again, a pretty mechanical update. I mean, you've
seen that we basically took the midpoint of the cloud revenue guidance down by EUR100 million.
We took the overall software and cloud revenue up by EUR50 million, so there's EUR150 million
offsetting that. And if you think about the delta in gross margin between cloud and software and
the slight increment, that gives you exactly that EUR50 million kind of uptick. So it was quite
mechanical. It is true that we are on a very good trajectory in H1 on the cost side. Honestly, we
have to also say that on the EBIT side, the comps were quite easy. So Q2 is more difficult, if you
think about prior year's impacts we had. And yes, indeed, we think we have a high degree of
confidence on reaching the new kind of updated guidance on EBIT non-IFRS and operating profit
to be precise.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
All right. Thanks, James.
Q - `James Goodman, Barclays Capital `
And on Converged Cloud?
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
The Converged Cloud is largely now done, so it is actually benefiting our gross margin, and I think
from now on, the kind of increase in gross margin will be a little bit more modest. I think the best
way to think about it is you start from Q2, the gross margin we have, and while there will be
fluctuations quarter by quarter because of some seasonality, we then will kind of gradually go up
to reach that overall cloud gross profit target, which we've, in our ambition for 2025, and I want to
reiterate that the main thought for us is really to deliver that absolute euro amount of cloud gross
profit. We've also highlighted at Sapphire that the private cloud deals have slightly lower margins
than public, but on the other hand, they give us a huge boost on volume, and we're really on a
good trajectory, we think, to we think to hit that kind of gross profit target for 2025.
Q - `James Goodman, Barclays Capital `
All right, thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Ben Castillo-Bernaus with Exane BNP Paribas. Go ahead.Q - `Ben Castillo Bernaus, Exane BNP Paribas UK `
Good afternoon. Yes, thanks very much for taking my question. My question is on the embedding
and the selling of the Generative AI and the uplift that you mentioned, Christian, the 30% uplift, I
think in the fall. My question here is, you're embedding this in every new RISE project or migration
rather than being sold as a sort of opt-in bolt-on. Is this a choice for customers or is this kind of
mandatory part of the package?
And I guess following that, customers who have already begun their RISE roadmap, do you then
go back to them and add this on retrospectively and give the option? So I'm just curious how this
sort of go-to-market and the rollout that happens in the timeframe? Thanks.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I can start, and then Scott, please feel free to comment. I mean, first, it's very important also,
as I shared in my opening remarks, and this is also quite a bit of a change of our strategy. We are
not offering AI, generative AI, sustainability capabilities, and also quite differentiating capabilities
in our LOB products in on-prem. And also when a customer decides to go to a hyperscaler and
get hosted with still customizations and not aligned data models and doing this outside of RISE,
then this offering is not available. And because we cannot apply AI with high quality, with high data
quality in a hugely customized ERP on-premise system, as AI is anyway only available in the cloud.
That's very important. Now, on RISE, the customers have choice. We give them our standard
offering with RISE and the methodology on standardizing and simplifying business policies,
reducing the custom code, building this one data layer, which is important, otherwise AI, the
quality and the accuracy will fail. And then we actually then say, hey, and you can get a premium
offering as part of RISE, where we then going to embed generative AI capabilities.
And so to really, for example, improve decision-making or to improve also automation or to
improve transportation management. So -- and that actually comes on top to the existing
customers. They, of course, also can now decide to buy the premium and actually consume it out
of the box. And this is also something where we actually also expect, of course, also an uptick on
the existing RISE installed base.
A - `Scott Russell, Head of Customer Success `
Yes. Maybe let me add a little bit more at the macro context and then how that will apply for the
customers. So I guess, I just want to reiterate what Christian had mentioned in the beginning.
Digital transformation and the demand for the digital change in their core businesses for
customers around the world continues unchanged, demand level is very high, and we definitely
see across that all parts of the world in the regional performance.
Customers are also seeing with RISE, we've now got a large set of customers that were the early
movers that have now successfully transformed and are operating and are proof points in that
success journey. Part of that digital transformation is to be able to drive value and early return on
that investment, and that's where the AI becomes an accelerator. So if you're a new customer,
the embedding of that into RISE, into GROW with SAP to accelerate value in the use cases that
were described is the reason the reason to move forward quickly. And for our large number of
customers have already moved across, as Christian mentioned, they've got the ability to not only
have the transformation in the cloud existing, but they then have a premium uplift and the ease
of innovation adoption is one of the beauties of this program. So whilst there is definitely markets
there, there's a level of prudence out there in terms of the return on investment and making surethese digital programs are delivering the outcomes, the use of AI embedded into our processes
and technology is one of the factors that is driving the strong demand that we continue to see.
Q - `Ben Castillo Bernaus, Exane BNP Paribas UK `
That's helpful. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. And now we can take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Charles Brennan, Jefferies, with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Jefferies `
All right. Great, thanks so much for taking my question. I just wanted to ask one actually on the
interplay between the CCB growth and the cloud growth. When I think about assets like Concur
and Fieldglass, even in normal economic conditions, I wouldn't expect them to be doing mid-
twenties growth. Is it likely that cloud growth will always remain below the CCB growth? And in
the context of your updated cloud revenue guidance, can you just give us some insight on how
you expect the CCB to evolve in the second half of the year? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Actually, if you look at historic data, for instance, now we have guided basically what's happening
on cloud revenues for the year. We've updated that and narrowed the guidance and compare
that to the CCB growth a year ago. It's fitting actually quite nicely. Indeed, as we mentioned, the
transactional volume was a little bit of a headwind in this context, and it usually is because, as you
say, the growth in that business has not been as frothy as overall.
But don't forget, the other thing that's driving our cloud revenue is the ramp embedded in the
RISE deal. So -- and that is the bigger thing. And there you still have a good traction, and we do
believe that the 25% current cloud backlog growth is actually a meaningful indicator. So I don't
think we've guided second-half numbers for current cloud backlog, so I would like to stick to the
methodology of what we guide and not kind of add another KPI guidance beyond what we have,
but it should be good enough to get to the numbers we have updated today.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Jefferies `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. And we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) So now the next question is from the line of Mohamed Moawalla with
Goldman Sachs International. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Goldman Sachs International `Yes, great. Good evening. I had -- my question was really focused on the non-S/4 side. Dominik,
you talked about Fieldglass on the transaction revenue side. Is there any softness you've seen on
Ariba or Concur? And in thinking about the kind of rest of the line of business portfolio, what sort
of impact have you seen there? Obviously, S/4 remains pretty strong, but curious to get any color
on sort of success factors and some of the other line of business products. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, we don't guide that now by line of business and line of business. But what you can do is,
of course, decompose and look at SaaS and what's embarked in terms of S/4HANA growth in
there. And then you get some indication. But don't forget to also adjust for the Infrastructure-as-
a-service piece of it, which is declining, and that's by intention, by design. So within the
transactional part, indeed, Fieldglass was a little bit of an outlier to the downside with really
significant negative numbers in growth terms because of the macro on that front. Otherwise, I'd
say, it was pretty much in line and was maybe a little bit decelerated, but not much.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Goldman Sachs International `
Got it.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Mo. And we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
Well, the next question comes from the line of Patrick Walravens with JMP Securities LLC. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Patrick D. Walravens, JMP Securities LLC `
Oh, great. Thank you. Hey, Christian, do you feel that SAP needs more PhD level data scientists to
do advanced research in all the AI topics that are relevant to SAP?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Oh my God. I mean, look, first of all --and I don't have a PhD in Data Scientists, but in my time in
leading S/4HANA, actually, I learned a lot about our data model and you could almost need a PhD
as we are sitting on a ton of data. But seriously spoken, look, we have actually someone with a
PhD leading our AI organization. He's one of our best engineers. And when I see what we are
doing here as a team, I mean, actually, almost every day, we are going through all the use cases,
which are not only exist on PowerPoint, but we are looking into the prototypes.
We are measuring the business value, aligning on the commercials, talking about to go-to-market.
And of course, we have lined up our vision very well. Now, did we have to lift and shift some R&D
capacity to AI? Absolutely. Are we really well equipped on the leadership level with great data
scientists? Absolutely, I have high confidence. And look, even our line of business leaders, you
take a Muhammad Alam responsible for ISBN, when you take a Jan Gilg responsible for S/4HANA,
I mean, they are deep on AI, they know their stuff. And so this is really a team effort. And again,
what we did is, we lifted and shifted some capacity. And because now with generative AI, we see
further powerful use cases, so we deprioritize some other things on features and functions while
we put more capacity on AI.And one thing is also very important, you learn a lot by the way, this is also very important, you
learn a lot by all these AI startups. And you actually -- we are exchanging a lot of knowledge and
best practices. I mean, the reason why we are doing these investments is to team-up technology-
wise and go-to-market wise, but we, of course, are also exchanging a lot of thoughts, a lot of
insights on how to build best this LLM model. So we are also gaining a lot of knowledge and
insights by these investments what we are doing, not to forget.
Q - `Patrick D. Walravens, JMP Securities LLC `
Yes, yes.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
All right. Thank you. And I think this will conclude our call for today. Thanks for joining. Operator,
you can close the call. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks a lot, everyone.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Goodbye.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you.
Thank you. Bye.