Q2 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Second Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr.Chris Stevo,
Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Chelsea. Good morning. Welcome to Pfizer's second quarter earnings call. I'm joined
today by Dr.`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and CEO; Dave Denton, our CFO; Dr.`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and,
Chief Scientific Officer and President, Pfizer Research and Development.
Joining for the Q&A session, we also have `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business, Chief Commercial Officer and
President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business; `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Business Innovation Officer;Dr.`Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease, our Chief Oncology Research and Development Officer; and Doug Lankler, our
General Counsel.
Before, we begin the call, I want to remind you of some logistical items. The materials for this call
and other earnings related materials are on the Investor Relations section of pfizer.com. And of
course, my favorite, our forward-looking statements.
Please see our forward-looking statements disclaimer on Slide 3, and additional information
regarding these statements, and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our earnings
release and in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q under risk factors, and forward-looking information,
and factors that may affect future results. Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to
substantial risks and uncertainties, speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no
obligation to update or revise any of these statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Our second quarter financial
results were solid and in line with our expectations. Non-COVID-19 revenues grew 5%
operationally, compared with the year ago quarter. Total revenues declined 53% operationally,
primarily due to the anticipated revenue declines in both Paxlovid and Comirnaty. Even with these
declines, our COVID-19 portfolio remained a significant contributor to the business with more
than $1.6 billion in combined revenues during this quarter.
Of course, our patient impact data are equally important, because patients are the reason we
exist. Through the first six months of the year more than 356 million patients around the world
were treated with our medicines and vaccines. We continue to make progress towards our goal
of executing an unprecedented number of launches of new products or indications. In fact, Pfizer
is more than halfway of its goal of launching 19 new products or indications in an 18-month span.
In addition to the six approvals and five launches that occurred prior to 2023, we had six
approvals and four launches in the first six months of 2023. For the second half of 2023, we
expect six additional approvals and six additional launches, including the two launches that
occurred in July. Then in 2024, we expect one approval and four launches, which if approved and
recommended would raise the total to 19 new launches in approximately 18 months.
As you can see in this chart for this year's launches, we expect the revenue contribution to occur
largely in the second half of 2023, because the first half launches occurred late in the second
quarter. And then in 2024 with the additional impact of next year's expected launches, we
anticipate an even greater total contribution for our 19 launches. It is important to note that 18 of
the 19 potential launches have been largely derisked from a technical perspective at this point
with the only one remaining being our RNA flu candidate.
Equally encouraging is that our pipeline is expected to continue generating breakthrough
treatments in vaccines long after the '19, we have been discussing. We recently reported
milestones from several exciting pipeline candidates with the potential to be significant future
value drive. These include Phase 3 data from marstacimab and novel antibody being studied for
the treatment of hemophilia A and B. Regulatory filing acceptance of our hemophilia B gene
therapy candidate.
The publication in the New England Journal of Medicine Phase 2 results for our vaccine candidate
for maternal immunization against Group B Streptococcus. And first in human data from ourpipeline of potential next generation breast cancer treatments, including our novel CDK4, CDK2,
and KAT6 inhibitors.
Now, I would like to provide some commentary on our COVID-19 portfolio. As you all know, during
the pandemic, Pfizer demonstrated impressively the power of our research and manufacturing
capabilities by bringing to the world, the first and most widely used vaccine and oral treatment for
COVID-19. These scientific breakthroughs have played a significant role in bringing the global
health crisis under control, and we are very proud of our contributions.
The profits that these products have generated to-date have enabled us to invest in acquiring
Arena, ReViral, Biohaven, and Global Blood Therapeutics, which together we expect to contribute
approximately $10 billion of revenues in year '23. In fact, the acquisitions of Biohaven, and Global
Blood Therapeutics are already contributing to our operational growth, while the acquisition of
Arena is expected to start generating revenues toward the end of this year.
We also remain very excited about our planned acquisition of Seagen, which if approved is
expected to contribute more than $10 billion in 2030 revenues. As a result of the positive
momentum of our non-COVID-19 revenues, and more importantly, the success of our COVID-19
portfolio, Pfizer's overall revenues have increased exponentially compared with our 2019
revenues, pro forma for the divestitures of Abzon[ph] and our consumer business.
This allowed us to increase investments in R&D and SI&A to support this new revenue base and
our expected new product launches. The increased investments, we are making in R&D and SI&A
this year were sized based on certain revenue assumptions, we make in general for both our
COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 products. These assumptions also were incorporated in our 2023
financial guidance.
Clearly, there is a higher level of uncertainty regarding the demand projections for our COVID-19
products than for the rest of our business. For example, in January, we set our expectation that
approximately 100 million doses of COVID-19 would be administered in the U.S. this year, of
which, we estimated Pfizer to capture 60% market share. In the first six months of 2023, 12.4
million doses were administered in the U.S. While the 12.4 million doses are behind our earlier
projections, our market share for COVID-19 is ahead of our previous expectations at 65%.
However, the vast majority of respiratory vaccinations happened during the fall and winter
respiratory disease season, which starts in September, and to expect COVID-19 vaccinations to
follow this pattern, going forward. The uncertainty of the exact timing of Comirnaty
commercialization was largely removed with the decision by the FDA and CDC to request a
change in the composition of the vaccine to address the Omicron XBB. 1.5 strains. We believe this
will allow us to commercialize the vaccine in September, assuming the updated vaccines are
approved and available by the end of August.
In the European Union, the uncertainty regarding the vaccine's revenue contributions for '23 and
beyond was removed, when we renegotiated successfully, our long-term agreement. This
agreement spreads the agreed volumes over four years. And while it puts pressure on this year's
volume, we believe it also provides longer-term revenue certainty in this important market.
Similar to what we are experiencing with the vaccine. The second half of the year will play a
bigger role in informing our expectations for the long-term demand of Paxlovid. The utilization of
which follows very closely the COVID-19 infection rates. We expect a new COVID-19 wave to start
in the U.S. this fall, and this expectation is supported by the increase in infection rates, we are
already seeing. Obviously, the severity of disease, and people's desire for treatment also will befactors as will the ongoing dialogue with the U.S. government regarding, when we will transition to
a commercial model for Paxlovid.
These are the uncertainties. We are acutely aware that all these uncertainties are making it
difficult to project the future revenues of Pfizer in this area and at large at Pfizer, and also
affecting our stock price as a result. The good news is we will have much more clarity and
certainty regarding how our COVID-19 products will perform in a commercial market by the time
we report our third quarter financial results. And we expect the uncertainties to be largely
eliminated by the end of the year.
This is because we expect the vaccination and treatment rates from the upcoming respiratory
disease season to be a reliable predictor of trends in subsequent years. With some potential
upside, of course, if a combination flu and COVID-19 vaccine is brought to market in the future.
Additionally, by that point, the timing of transitioning to full commercialization of both Comirnaty
and Paxlovid should become clear. Despite this uncertainty, we will continue to invest in our
COVID-19 portfolio this year in advance of the upcoming respiratory disease season.
This is very important. But given the uncertainty, we are also preparing to have the ability to adjust
our 2024 total cost base to align with various future COVID-19 disease revenue scenarios. In fact,
we have already identified specific areas, where we can make adjustments primarily within our
COVID-19 cost base, if demand comes in lower than expected. Dave will provide more details
during his remarks.
Next, I wanted to share a few quick updates of our planned acquisition of Seagen, which we
believe will be a major driver of our future success. Seagen shareholders recently
overwhelmingly, approved the planned acquisition, and we have already raised most of the
external financing needed to fund the transaction. We also continue to work closely with
regulators, including the Federal Trade Commission and the European Commission.
In the meantime, our integration planning continues, which will allow us to keep the ground
running, following an anticipated close later in 2023 or early in 2024, subject to the satisfaction of
customary closing conditions. Last week, we announced that `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease has joined Pfizer's
executive leadership team as Chief Oncology Research and Development Officer and Executive
Vice President reporting directly to me.
In this role, Chris, will lead a new end-to-end oncology R&D organization and be the single point
of accountability for the entire oncology pipeline from discovery to early, and late phase clinical
development. This is similar to the structure, we currently have in place for our vaccines, R&D
organization, which has proven to be very productive.
Pfizer and Seagen share a common vision to deliver life-saving treatments for people living with
cancer, which is why, I'm so pleased but after closing, Chris oncology leadership team will include
talented, purpose driven, and highly productive leaders from both companies. And we made
already announcements about the people that are joining Chris leadership team.
We believe this new structure will help further accelerate the delivery of cancer therapies, which is
critical, because in the battle against cancer, time is life. As Pfizer's one of core business
principles is the belief that trust is everything. I'm proud to share that in recent months, we have
received some wonderful accolades that speak to the trust we are building with external
stakeholders. We were named one of the '23, '24 best companies to work for by U.S. News and
World Report.We were listed in Newsweek's list of America's greatest workplaces in 2023. For the third year in
a row, Pfizer has earned a top 100 score in the 2023 Disability Equality Index. And our own Rady
Johnson received the Disability in '23 Executive Sponsor of the Year award at the National
Conference in July. And lastly, our PGS site in Ascoli, Italy has been recognized by the United
Nations for the Welcome Award working for refugee integration. These recognitions are very
important because they strengthen the unprecedented brand equity that Pfizer built during the
COVID-19 pandemic.
Before now I hand it over to Dave, I want to quickly comment on the situation at our facility in
Rocky Mount, North Carolina. First, all of us at Pfizer were relieved that no colleagues were
seriously injured when the tornado struck. That said, our facility sustained substantial damage as
did the neighborhoods, where many of our colleagues live, unfortunately.
The local leadership team has done an incredible job responding to this devastating event, and
we are proceeding with both urgency and caution to determine the best way to get the site back
online as quickly as possible, so as to minimize any impact on patients. Of course, we are also
taking steps to ensure that continued safety of our colleagues and contractors, which remains our
top priority.
And with that, I will now turn it over to Dave. And after Dave, Mikael will provide an update on our
R&D pipeline. Dave?
`David Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert, and good morning to everyone. Over the past 24 months, Pfizer has made
important investments to position it squarely on track to achieve profitable and sustainable
growth, particularly in the back half of this decade. We have strategically invested to expand our
commercial portfolio and our late stage pipeline, strengthen our market launch capabilities, and
enhance innovation through internal R&D, and business development actions.
These deliberate efforts continue to solidify Pfizer's ability to overcome upcoming LOEs and drive
sustainable revenue growth, all while enhancing long-term shareholder value. To further support
our long-term growth objectives, we are executing a capital allocation strategy designed to
effectively deploy our cash.
Our strategy is focused on three main pillars. First is reinvesting in our business, second is
growing our dividends over time, and finally, making value-enhancing share repurchases. In the
first half of 2023 alone, we've invested $5.2 billion in internal R&D, returned $4.6 billion to
shareholders via our quarterly dividend, and allocated approximately $43 billion towards the
proposed acquisition of Seagen.
During the second quarter, Pfizer successfully completed a $31 billion unsecured debt offering
across eight tranches. The net proceeds of this debt offering will be used to substantially fund
the Seagen acquisition. The new debt carries a weighted average yield of 4.93% and a weighted
average maturity of 16.3 years. Consistent with our expectations. On a full year run rate basis, the
annual financing costs associated with the acquisition is expected to be nearly $2 billion.
With the completion now of this debt offering, the company is positioned to close the Seagen
acquisition immediately upon post-regulatory approvals. While we plan to continue investing in
our business, we expect to deliver our capital structure following the closing of Seagen
transaction. As we deliver, it is our expectation to return to a more balanced capital allocation
strategy inclusive of share repurchases.Now with that, let me briefly cover a few highlights of our quarterly financial performance. As
Albert said, our Q2 results were solid and in line with our expectations from both a top and a
bottom line perspective, albeit slightly better than EPS consensus. As expected in our guidance,
our overall Q2 revenues declined 53% operationally. The contraction of revenue was driven by
the anticipated decline in both Paxlovid and Comirnaty sales. We expect these products to
transition to a commercial market in the second half of this year.
Our operational revenue growth excluding our COVID products was in line with expectations at
5% versus Q2 of LY with strong contributions from the inclusion of both Nurtec and Oxbryta as
well as the continued growth from the Vyndaqel family. During Q2 adjusted SI&A expenses were
$3.4 billion and grew 20% operationally versus LY. We continue to invest in support of our
upcoming launches and grow our recently acquired products. While it's clear that these near-term
investments are dampening our current profitability levels, we are laser focused on maximizing
the longer-term performance of these products.
Now moving to the bottom line, reported diluted earnings per share this quarter declined by 77%
to $0.41, while adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.67 declined 65% on an operational basis.
Earnings compressed at a greater rate than revenues, primarily due to the steep and anticipated
contraction impact slow bid sales during the quarter. Once again, foreign exchange movements
continue to unfavorably impact our results reducing second quarter revenues by approximately
$280 million or 1%, and adjusted diluted earnings per share by $0.05 or 2% compared to last year.
Now that we are at the halfway point of our 2023 financial plan, I'd like to take a moment to
reflect on how we are executing across business, while navigating within an incredibly unique and
dynamic environment. As a management team, we remain committed to transparency, ensuring
our assessment of the evolving marketplace, given the magnitude of launches, the ongoing
shifting nature of the COVID landscape, and the continued integration of acquired assets.
Let me begin by elaborating on our full year '23 financial guidance. We are narrowing our
expectations for revenues to between $67 billion and $70 billion, and maintaining guidance for
adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.25 to $3.45 for the full year. For our more durable and
predictable non-COVID revenues, we are updating our guidance range to 6% to 8% operational
revenue growth.
From a launch timing standpoint, I'll point out that the majority of our 2023 launches are
anticipated to occur in the second half of 2023, and our commercialization schedule remains
materially unchanged. As a company, we always strive to achieve the highest revenue level
possible, while maintaining a realistic view of the key inputs that inform our outlook.
Regarding RSV for older adults, the shared decision making recommendation by ACIP is likely to
slow its near-term uptake in the U.S. In addition, the recent approval of Talzenna in the U.S. results
in a narrow patient population than originally planned. These factors coupled with the impact of
the damaged Rocky Mount Manufacturing Facility presents near-term revenue challenges.
However, we expect positive revenue momentum as we exit 2023 and head into 2024. And
importantly, the long-term outlook for a non-COVID business remains intact relative to our 2030
ambitions.
Turning now to our less predictable and more variable COVID portfolio. Year-to-date, we have
booked slightly over 40% of the $21.5 billion full year revenue forecast for both Comirnaty and
Paxlovid with the important fall vaccination and respiratory infection season ahead of us. We are
acutely aware that COVID demand depends on many evolving market variables making the
range of potential revenue outcomes increasingly large and difficult to predict with certainty.These variables include the overall level of vaccination and infection rates, the speed of
drawdown of government inventory levels, and the mutating nature of the virus itself, just to
name a few.
In the interest of public health and with the important fall season ahead of us, we are maintaining
our COVID revenue outlook for the year, while continuing to invest largely on a variable expense
basis to support our COVID products in 2023. These variable investments are important to
support our efforts to reach as many patients as possible, helping to ensure that the most at-risk
individuals are both vaccinated and treated, while maintaining our leading market share. We are
proud of what we have achieved through the COVID portfolio, and this has allowed the company
to invest in support of its growth agenda for the back half of this decade.
Our visibility into future COVID revenues and demands should improve throughout the remainder
of 2023, as we gain clarity on a more typical annual run rate. We are well aware that our 2023
profit outlook is currently being dampened by incremental cost in support of our launches as well
as higher R&D investments aligned with the company's current revenue base. We remain
committed to both defending and growing our level of profitability.
As Albert mentioned earlier, we expect this fall's performance of our COVID-19 products to help
us more effectively forecast future sales performance. To that end, if our COVID-19 revenues are
less than what we have assumed, we are prepared to launch an enterprise wide cost
improvement program aligned with the longer term revenue projections for our business. This
program will be designed to support our objective of growing, our operating profit margin, and
we expect to begin to yield results in 2024. And we look forward to sharing the specific details of
this program in our upcoming earnings call.
In closing, this is an extraordinary time for Pfizer. Our confidence and our commitment to our
strategy and to achieving our 2030 goals is unwavering. We will continue to focus our efforts to
drive growth, while enhancing long-term shareholder value.
And with that, let me now turn it over to Mikael.
`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
Thank you, Dave. Today, I will provide updates from a few different therapeutic focus areas,
starting with breast cancer. We are working to deliver the next wave of innovative therapies for
Estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. The pillars of this strategy are threefold. Establishing
our investigational CDK4 inhibitor as a next generation cell cycle therapy backbone. Establishing
Vepdegestrant as a next generation endocrine therapy backbone. And establishing novel
mechanism like our investigational CDK2 inhibitor and KAT6 inhibitor candidates as next-gen
combination partners to enhance efficacy.
Our clinical strategy entails first developing assets for the metastatic setting in which Ibrance is
currently the leader and unmet need is high. Followed by an opportunity to expand to earlier
stage breast cancer, including the CDK4/6 naive population and adjuvant or neoadjuvant settings.
Data presented at ASCO from three key investigational medicines from our NextGen portfolio
demonstrated anti-tumor activity in heavily pretreated populations of patients with breast cancer.
As a reminder, the majority of hormone receptor-positive breast cancers express low CDK6,
while CDK4 is likely to be a major cell cycle driver. We have seen that CDK4/6 inhibition can lead
to neutropenia, which requires more frequent blood test monitoring, mostly driven by CDK6
inhibition. Across the CDK4/6 inhibitor class, approximately 30% to 60% of patients experience
severe neutropenia.On the left, in a Phase 1 dose escalation study in patients with hormone receptor-positive or two
negative to negative breast cancer, all of whom had previously received a CDK4/6 inhibitor
treatment with our CDK4 inhibitor in combination with endocrine therapy resulted in a confirmed
objective response rate of 29%, clinical benefit response rate of 52%, and median progression-
free survival of nearly 25 weeks. The combination was well-tolerated, which may enable
maximum CDK4 inhibition. We're actively planning the Phase 3 randomized study.
In addition, I'd like to highlight encouraging data from the Phase 1 dose escalation study of our
novel CDK2 inhibitor, which showed monotherapy activity, including confirmed partial responses in
breast cancer patients, who had previously received a CDK4 inhibitor. Also durable confirmed
clinical responses were observed in a Phase 1 trial of our novel KAT6 inhibitor as a monotherapy,
and in combination with endocrine therapy in heavily pre-treated patients with breast cancer.
Turning now to blood cancers. ELREXFIO also known as elranatamab subject to regulatory
approval is expected to be the anchor of an anticipated multi-billion dollar franchise. An FDA
decision for the potential first indication in the triple-class relapsed or refractory multiple
myeloma population is expected this year. And we continue to advance the MagnetisMM clinical
programs to expand into earlier lines of treatment.
In addition, development of Maplirpacept also known as TTI-622 is underway including in
combination with ELREXFIO to support potential indications in myeloma and acute myeloid
leukemia. Here, we show ELREXFIO data presented at EHA from the MagnetisMM-3 trial in
patients with triple-class refractory multiple myeloma, who had no prior exposure to BCMA direct
therapy.
On the left, we observed highly meaningful survival with ELREXFIO monotherapy with a 15 months
overall survival of 57 patients. In patients, who achieved a complete response, 15 months survival
was remarkably 93%, underscoring the potential for deep and durable responses. We can see
evidence of broad activity in multiple myeloma on the right with the graph showing a single agent
complete response rate of 35%, which rises to 46% in the subsets of patients with two to three
prior lines of therapy.
Our ongoing randomized trials are in less pre-treated to newly diagnosed populations. Subject to
approval may have key differentiators, such as 50% lower hospitalization time during the step-up
dosing period per protocol. And an extended dosing interval that moves from once weekly to
once every other week, dosing beyond week 24.
Turning now to haemophilia A and B, the pivotal trial of marstacimab met its primary endpoint,
with statistically significant and clinically meaningful effects on annualized bleeding rate or ABR.
There was a 35% reduction in ABR compared to prophylactic factor replacement, and 92%
reduction in ABR versus on-demand factor replacement.
Marstacimab offers a differentiated mechanism of action and dosing regimen compared to
standard of care therapy. If approved, it has the potential to be the first once weekly subcute
treatment for patients without inhibitors, and the first hemophilia A or B treatment administered
in a patient friendly pen as a flat dose. Regulatory submission is expected in the second half of
2023.
Next LITFULO also known as ritlecitinib, is the first medicine to receive FDA approval to treat
severe alopecia areata in both adults and adolescents 12 years and older. It also recently received
a positive opinion from the European Medicines Agency's CHMP recommending body, but is not
yet proved. It has the potential to redefine the standard of care for alopecia areata.LITFULO is the first of its kind kinase inhibitor with a unique mechanism that inhibits both the TEC
kinase family and trans-JAK3 pulse rates that have been implicated in the alopecia areata
pathophysiology. In addition, we're exploring how its unique mechanism of action could
potentially be applied across immune disorders, including vitiligo in which a Phase 3 study is
ongoing and other potential indications.
Finally, we're making excellent progress on the milestones, we had set out through the first half
of 2024. As Albert noted, we recently received FDA approval for Prevnar 20 in the pediatric
population. We have robust strategies in place to potentially improve the protection provided by
current pneumococcal vaccines. I look forward to sharing more about this in the coming quarters.
In addition, we recently published Phase 2 data in New England Journal of Medicine showing our
Group B streptococcus maternal vaccine candidate was generally well-tolerated and generated
robust antibody levels. The journal also published a natural published a natural history study, which
was used to determine protective, antibody levels at birth.
These two studies indicated that the vaccine candidate may offer meaningful protection to
infants born to immunized mothers. We were highly encouraged that Dr.Carol Baker, an infectious
disease expert from the University of Texas Health Science Center wrote an independent
greenland editorial highlighting the important future prospects of our GBS vaccine candidate.
The progress of the GBS vaccine candidate dovetails nicely with the positive results, and
anticipated upcoming regulatory decisions for our RSV vaccine ABRYSVO for administration to
pregnant women. ABRYSVO, we recently received a positive opinion from the European
Medicines Agency, CHMP for both older adults and maternal immunization to help protect infants.
ABRYSVO is approved for adults in the U.S. and under regulatory review for the maternal
indication.
In addition, we remain excited to see the Phase 2 data from danuglipron by end of '23, which we
expect will enable us to finalize our Phase 3 plans. Finally, I'll pull out the Phase 3 trial start of our
anti-interferon beta candidate for the treatment in inflammatory muscle myopathies, which has
received fastrack designation from FDA.
Thank you. Let me turn it over to Chris, to start the Q&A session.
`Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Thank you, Mikael. Chelsea, if you could please queue up the callers. We have at least 30 minutes
for our Q&A session now.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Yes, sir. (Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Robyn Karnauskas with Truist
Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Nicole Barry, Truist Securities
Hi. Good morning. This is Nicole on for Robyn. Just a quick question for us. On RSV, can you share
what you expect the shared decision-making to slow the uptake in the U.S. would be. And what
we want to know if you guys can elaborate on why you think this is the case, and if peak annualsales is lower than previously expected? And how do you think ex-U.S. sales might be impacted, if
at all, given the ACIP decision?
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you very much. Maybe Angela can answer that. The question was do you expect the
shared decision to have a big impact on RSV. And also do you expect in the U.S., and also do you
expect any impact from this?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. So first of all, we're really excited about the approval for our RSV older adult vaccine. And
the way, I would see this shared clinical decision-making is just that it is a -- it's a step towards the
full routine recommendation that we anticipate. So, I think that there is -- the way to look at it is
that it's a short-term effect. We do expect that with more data that will be emerging out of our
clinical program that we'll have an additional opportunity to go back to the ACIP, and actually get
the routine recommendation that we hope for.
So, over the next year or so as we collect and finalize our data, that is really the anticipation of it.
So, it doesn't change the full opportunity for this particular vaccine. It doesn't change the peak. It
just means that it takes us a little bit longer to get to the peak because of the shared clinical
decision-making that we're -- that extra that extra step that we have to take right now.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
And what about the ex-U.S.?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
ex-U.S., actually, we had a different filing. We were able to get both maternal and older adult at
the same time. So I think, you see slightly different dynamics there in that here in the U.S., our
maternal vaccine will be launching later, but in ex-U.S. and in Europe, they'll be launching at the
same time.
And those vaccine technical committees have not opined yet on those recommendations in
particular in terms of the utilization. And so, we'll await that. But I think, what you have that's
different, and that's really a great upside is the fact that we have both indications at once.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Thank you very much, Angela. I hope, we gave you what you asked, Robyn. Operator, the next
question, please.
Operator
Next, we have Umar Raffat with Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I know, I heard two different things on the cost cut just
one was that it would be enterprise wide, while Albert, I think used the word within the COVID
cost base, so I was just trying to reconcile the two. And also on danuglipron, is it reasonable to
expect that if it's below mid-teens weight loss, you wouldn't move forward? Thank you very
much.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me clarify. Of course, it would be enterprise-wide, but what I said is that the COVID part is
going to be the biggest part. Right now, you need to know that the R&D and SI&A cost of COVID
is billions, it's not a small amount, so there is a lot over there. Mikael, can you speak a little bit
about the prospects to move ahead at danuglipron?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
Well. We really look forward to get the data. As you know, we have in parallel developed activities
also for a modified release. I think, we really need to look at the totality of data. Its performance
on important metabolic parameters diabetes, its ability to deliver weight loss, as you alluded to.
And also of course, its tolerability in general. These three implicate, how well the drug can
perform. And I remain optimistic that oral drugs in this class can have a profound effect on weight
loss.
Of course, one needs to be maybe a little bit cautious to drive weight loss too far. As you have
seen also some concerns in public media about side effects that may arise from that. So, we will
really integrate all of that data and make a decision, and we really look forward to that moment.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Thank you, Mikael. May I have the next question, please?
Operator
Our next question will come from `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets with BMO. Your line is open.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi all. Thank you for taking my question. And kind of a follow-up from Umar's, I want to focus on
the GLP-1 franchise, can you talk about the competitive profile of danuglipron in its current form,
considering safety, twice-daily dosing, and efficacy? And maybe remind us on the timelines to
potentially get more on a once-daily formulation of this asset? Thank you.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Michael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
Yeah. As I said in my prepared remark, we expect later at the later part of this year, we are
absolutely encouraged and confident that it has a different profile, when it comes to adverse
event as the drug lotiglipron that we stopped, so we don't see that as an issue.
And I just spoke to that we will put together the totality of data to pending readout, prepare a
potential Phase 3 program. And it's a very big sector, diabetes and obesity. We have
considerable expertise in treating cardiometabolic patients. So really look forward to sharing
more data and more plans with you as we move to further quarters. Thank you for your great
interest in this important space.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you very much, Mikael. May we move to the next question, please?Operator
Next, we have `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks so much for taking the questions. Maybe two for me. Dave, I was just wondering,
how we should think about steady state operating margin here. Looking back pre-COVID, the
company was around mid to high 30% range. So is that how we should think about this? You gave
us some of the parameters, but just maybe how to think about steady state.
And then on the messenger RNA Phase 3 seasonal flu vaccine program, it looks like that trial was
upsized based on clinicaltrials.gov. So just wondering Mikael, if you can talk through timing of data
and help frame expectations there. Thank you.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Terence. Let's start with Dave.
A - `David Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. So, great question. As we think about our operating margin long-term, clearly, our objective
is to expand that over time. Clearly, it is our expectation to get back to, at a minimum, pre-COVID
levels with one caveat is that as we go forward, we do have a different mix of products within our
portfolio particularly the vaccine related to COVID.
As you know, the vaccine, given the cost share that we have or profit share that we have with our
partner, does dilute that product from an operating margin perspective. So, with a mix adjusted,
you should see us back to those levels over time. But obviously, as we cycle into 2024, we'll give
you a lot more clarity on all the puts and takes as we integrate Seagen, as we roll forward from a
COVID franchise perspective, how that looks as well as all the developments all the
developments that we have coming out of the pipeline at this point in time.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Thank you, David. Mikael, mRNA for flu?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
Yes. First, the totality of experience we have with mRNA for flu makes me very encouraged that
this will be a new modality as it was for COVID, but now for flu, that engages two mechanisms,
the B cells and the T cells, that we should aspire for having better efficacy than what we have
seen with the old flu.
We are continuing with the study because we just wanted to have more events and particularly
have addition of flu B type of events, which were scarce in the U.S. part of the trial. And we look
forward to update you, hopefully be able to conclude the study later this year. But we are also
putting mitigations as adding immunicity studies that can be supplementary for getting a total
good data package of activity against flu A and flu B.
But as I said, I remain very optimistic that the mRNA is going to be the next important platform to
deal with flu. Thank you.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `Thank you very much. May I have the next question, please?
Operator
Next, we have `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Two questions, if I may? On the potential enterprise-wide cost program, you would
have some opportunity outside of the COVID programs to consider. Can you help us with the
relative weighting, potentially, of R&D versus SG&A or some other component of that? And I ask
that in part because you've announced some changes, for instance in kind of the structure at the
top of your amendment of the R&D with the anticipation of the oncology and Seattle Genetics?
And then secondly, if I could. On the Rocky Mount facilities, reassuring to hear in terms of your
own staff. But I think folks are looking to get a sense for the scale of the damage. And perhaps
what potential gating factors for getting more information on timing. I know that you guys have
communicated with some of your hospital-based customers. But any additional insights in terms
of magnitude of impact and timing of the recovery. And what that could look like from a progress
standpoint would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me say a few words about the Rocky Mount, and then I will ask David to answer the question
about the cost adjustment program in case we have a significant reduction on our revenues,
because of the COVID. The Rocky Mount, it was severe, the damage of the hurricane, but the
damage was mainly concentrated on the warehouse, which means that we lost a lot of inventory,
but was about to be sent to the market. The facilities, per se, the production facilities, were not
impacted by the hurricane, so the buildings are standing there. However, because the utilities
were discontinued, the facilities had to stop operating.
And in this highly sensitive, sterile environment, when you are losing power, it's not easy to switch
on and switch off. It takes time and a lot of processes so that you can start. And the additional
challenge will be some of the inventories of materials that were also destroyed, particularly glass
and other stuff that we need to make sure that we replace in time. So, what I want to say is that
we feel very confident that the whole thing will go back to life, but still we are assessing how long
that will take. And we are doing anything we can to make sure that we will minimize the shortages
in the marketplace, because of that.
Now, let's move to some more color on the cost adjustment program.
A - `David Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So, thank you for the question. Clearly, as we develop this program in the back half of '23,
we look forward to sharing a lot more details as we cycle into '24. And give you a lot of -- I'll say
milestones as you think about both our cost and investment structure going forward. Importantly,
as you know, we're extremely excited about the Seagen acquisition that's upcoming here. Upon
approval, this will allow the company to refocus its efforts and investments to make sure that
we're squarely focused on battling cancer going forward.
And we think there's a big opportunity as we align our resources against that franchise in that
battle to fight cancer and an opportunity for patients, but importantly, an opportunity long-term
for Pfizer. Having said that, we will be informed in the back half of the year of our revenuehave to expand our margins into '24 and '25 and beyond. That will allow us to set back and make
sure that all of our costs and all our investments are aligned with those Seagen objectives as well
as aligned to maximizing the performance of our inline portfolio as well as the launches that are
occurring as we speak in the back half of this year.
So again, we look forward to sharing a lot more to this, from this. This will be balanced as you well
know between SI&A and R&D. And we'll give you that specific breakdown and that specific
information later this year and into next year.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you very much. Let's move to the next question please.
Operator
Next, we have `Louise Chen, Cantor with Cantor. Your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions here. I wanted to ask you first on these COVID scenarios that
you think could unfold in second half '23, anyway you could share some of the big ones that you
anticipate could potentially happen. And then secondly, seeing a lot of headlines in the in the
ATTR-CM space, I'm just curious, if you anticipate any potential competition or meaningful
competition to Vyndaqel, Vyndamax? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. So on the COVID, I would say a few words and then I will ask Angela to comment on
both. Look, the COVID scenario sort of depends what are the uncertainties. I think, I articulated.
Let's start with the vaccine. The biggest uncertainty is vaccination rates. I think, market share is
pretty much, I think, well-established, vaccination rates is what we're going to see in the fall that is
coming.
So that will be a big uncertainty. Another uncertainty was the time of commercialization in the U.S.
because, of course, you go with new inventories, new sales to the market and with higher prices.
That has been resolved. We know that it's very likely that we will launch in September because
FDA and CDC, they asked us to change the inventories basically by creating a new vaccine. So
that will happen.
And also, the other uncertainty that existed about the COVID vaccine was the European contract.
That was a very long contract, a very big contract, and now we have the certainty that has been
negotiated. A little bit less for the year, because it spread over four years, but let's say
renegotiated. So all of that are the key uncertainties. Of course, there is how much Japan, Latin
America, and other countries will purchase. It's not the only ones. But let's say those are the
fundamentals.
And we will know pretty much the trend in the third quarter and we will know pretty much, quite
accurate, what is the situation in the end of the year. That, I think, will be a very good predictor of
what we should expect going forward, with the only upside, if we have a combined vaccine with
flu or with RSV. But that will increase the vaccination rates.
On Paxlovid, a little bit more uncertainty, because of course, we are having the uncertainty of
treatment rates and infection rates, and we don't know how that will behave. We don't have any
benchmarks to see how that goes. We know that the treatment rates are falling very closely tothe infection rates, and the infection rates are rising right now. But it remains to be seen how that
will go. Of course, also the sales of Paxlovid are rising as we see in the market, the scripts on a
weekly basis, as always do when the infection rates are going up.
But we have some more uncertainties over there, which is the timing of loans, which will depend
on how we will agree for the interest of public health to transition these loans with the U.S.
government. So all of that remains to be seen, and these are the scenarios that we see for
COVID, and the key message is the uncertainty will go away at the end of the year. We will know
what COVID will contribute on a stable basis in Pfizer's revenue, and we will go from there. Now,
Angela, maybe if you want anything to add to that and also about the next question, the other
question.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
And Louise, I think when you talk about Vyndamax or Vyndaqel, the biggest -- and our biggest
differentiator that we're extremely confident about is just the totality of our data, along four
dimensions, and whether that's clinical data or real-world data. We have all-cause mortality and
CV-related hospitalization data. Our data are also relevant in both hereditary and wild-type ATTR-
CM, so that's unique. We've also demonstrated significant survival benefit at five years for our
real-world data. So whichever way you look at it, and if you compare that with any competitor
program, I think that we have a highly differentiated and an extremely valuable molecule that
stacks up well against any competition.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. May we have the next question, please?
Operator
Next, we have `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thank you very much. And maybe a follow-up to this one a little bit. So thank you for all the
transparency, by the way. So is it fair to say that, I mean COVID trend that you have seen so far, at
least sales trend, that have been below your expectations and you want to see one more quarter
before you adjust the expectations?
I'm asking this because if I look at the -- it seems like you still expect 88 million or so vaccinations
in the second half of the year in the U.S. And the number was actually, by our calculation, 44
million or so in terms of administration, 111 million in terms of shipment. So just trying to
understand, is it like -- is it something where we could get better update in third quarter on the
COVID numbers? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think -- thank you for the question. I think the answer, yes, we should get way better feeling.
It's not that we just want to see another quarter. We want to see the big quarter of the
respiratory season. COVID, we always said, and everybody, I think, seems that that is a common
sense, that will follow going forward the seasonality of the other respiratory vaccines. That's
becoming more and more and more clear, right?
And the majority of these vaccinations are happening in the third and fourth quarter for the year.
So it's not that we are just another quarter. We're awaiting the main quarter. If COVID vaccinationsgo anywhere close to the flu vaccination rates, then we have a very big bit of what we expect to
happen. If they are a small fraction of what will happen for flu, then of course, we'll have the
(inaudible). So that's why we are going to see how that will evolve. So, it's a very, very important
quarter.
The rest, although for the first half of the year, we had quite significant contribution towards the
total goal. So, we don't need that much of inventory if we have the utilization over there to make
sure that we know how big the COVID franchise will become. And as I said, in the EU, we have
adjusted very well. We have high (inaudible) Paxlovid (inaudible) China is a very, very good market.
We don't know how in the next wave the Paxlovid will be used. We have the rest of the world, but
the inventories, they were also last year.
So, we are now expecting that products will start being going -- either expiring or product will
start more reordering from many more countries. So, that's why the infection rates on the
Paxlovid will be extremely, extremely important. So -- and all of that are happening now. So, once
we know, then we can predict way more accurate. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next
question.
Operator
Next, we have `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. You commented the long-term outlook for your non-
COVID business remains intact relative to the 2030 ambitions. How are you thinking about the
mid-term 2025 guide? Because if you assume the midpoint of your ex-COVID '23 guide at 7%, in
order to achieve the 6% 2020 to 2025 guidance ex-COVID, on our calculations, you need to do
high single-digit growth for that base business for '24 and '25. That looks tough, especially as
you'll have more LOEs. So do you remain confident in that mid-term guide?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you. The LOEs are coming basically from year '26, right? So all the way to '25, I think
the impact will not be that high. Also, the guidance that we gave was 6%. And yes, we feel quite
confident that we will be there. So we'll continue and we are at 6% right now, all these years,
right, year-to-date.
So yeah, the non-COVID business, I think, clearly, the success of the launches is very important.
So we'll see a lot of things coming ahead of us. But it is way better predictable. And I think we are
there, so I don't think there will be any variability. Thank you for the question, by the way. Let's go
to the next question.
Operator
Next, we have `Colin Bristow, UBS with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Colin Bristow, UBS `
Hey. Good morning, and thanks for taking the question. Another follow-up on Danuglipron. I don't
think I heard the answer in terms of when we'll hear about the once daily formulation. And I'd just
like to understand your level of confidence here that you can make this a one study formulation
without negatively impacting AE profile, presumably given an increase in CMAx.And then more importantly, can you just talk more about how you're going to compete here
given, I think it was previously referenced, you're behind the competition, the clinical
differentiation, the potentially less convenient dosing and essentially a therapeutic category in
which you don't have a major presence.
And then just maybe one other quick one on a pipeline item on DMD gene therapy. It's a late
stage asset that doesn't seem to get much airtime. Is your enthusiasm waning on this program or
is it just that others are sort of a bigger priority? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you. So, Michael, again, clearly the obesity market and the size of it is creating a lot of
interest in Danuglipron. And so, the question was about the one-day formulation. And then also
tell us a little bit where we are with DMD.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
I hear your interest in our once daily product, and I would say, I don't see any technical barrier for
us in creating that. We have tremendous experience in modified release formulations. And our
early data, as we now have initiated a while ago, tells us we should be encouraged that when it
relates to once a day modified release for Danuglipron, I believe we will have such a formulation
in a reasonable future in our hand.
When could it come to the market if the drug continues and makes a great Phase 3? Well, I think
we can have it at launch or shortly after launch. So, I wouldn't worry about that. But I agree with
you that once daily modified release can sometimes actually improve the tolerability profile by
smoothing the variability in exposure, which typically reduce GI side effects that have been seen
as limiting with this drug. So, that's why I can see a potential twofold advantage of a MR goes
from twice a day to once a day and may also help uniquely to create a tolerability profile within
this drug as oral GLPs.
DMD gene therapy, I'm encouraged that the FDA took a very positive angle on that drug when it
comes to its urgency to get into the market. Chris, you and I have worked very closely on that and
we expect to be able relatively soon to conclude the trial. I'll also ask Chris to pitch in on it.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
And thank you, Mikael. So the DMD program is obviously very important for us, not just for the
importance of gene therapy, but for patients and families with this absolutely devastating
disease. And we do have an interim analysis later this year for the CIFFREO trial.
The CIFFREO trial, all patients have now been enrolled in the study. The interim analysis will be
based not on a surrogate biomarker endpoint, but on truly functional endpoints. So we believe
that's the best way to measure the benefit of gene therapy in this disease is with a functional
endpoint. And that should come later this year and we'll update you with a final analysis for the
study then in 2024.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
That was terrific. I just wanted to add that we have, like you heard Sarepta (inaudible) biomarker
data that look very robust in our hand. But as Chris said, we want to provide patients with even
more experience about the potential benefits.
Thank you, both. May I have the next question, please?Operator
Next, we have `Kerry Holford, Berenberg with Berenberg. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you. A couple of questions. It's about savings. It's clear that demand for your COVID assets
will influence whether or not you go down this route, but given the potential you've highlighted
previously for a COVID flu combination vaccine, I'm interested to understand whether the
upcoming Phase 3 data from your mRNA flu vaccine trial will influence your decisions on that cost-
saving program in any way?
And then secondly, on hemophilia, your anti-TFPI, you're saying you're filing second half of the
year for non-inhibitor patients. Should we assume you would seek to launch in that patient group
only next year or would you wait for the data in the inhibitor patient group before you proceed to
market? And perhaps you can just discuss it how big an opportunity you see in that drug? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me start with the COVID and then Mikael also can comment, but we are very excited about
the combinations, right, but -- and the combinations will be flu and COVID and then hopefully also
flu, COVID and RSV. And we are working on that and we believe actually that the fact that if we
have a combination with a non-mRNA included over there, we'll have likely that we expect to have
the benefit of better safety profile because you don't have to load three products RNA into a
single injection, but we will be using only two COVID and flu and then we'll use a protein-based
vaccine, which has a very benign profile on RSV. So all of that are working very well.
Now, the question is, what will happen if the COVID market is seen to be very -- is monovalent, is
very, very low. I think, that will play a key role in our decision about controlling the cost because if it
is very, very low, although we expect an upside in the combination, we will assume at this stage
that the medical need for COVID is not that high. And as a result, we will reduce our investments
in the area and also temper our expectations for sales.
And then if the combinations come and we are way more successful, that's a different story. You
want also -- what's the second question? Yes, about the marstacimab, Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
I'm very excited about marstacimab. I've followed this project for a long time. And as you know,
we reported out a very encouraging data. We had 92% reduction in annual bleeding rate versus
on demand. We had really no safety events as had been associated with other products including
Hemlibra. It's active against both Hem A and B. It's administrated with a pre-filled pen. I think it can
be, from a medical point of view, a very large product, a single option for Hemophilia A and B.
Of course, when I think about how Hemlibra has been such a promise for Hem A patients, and I
see this profile that looks so good, I'm optimistic that it can do well in both segments.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Let's move to the next question, please. And we are a little bit -- the time is
flying, so a lot of interest. So let's try to be more, one question, please. It's one.Our next question will come from `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys. Thanks so much for the question. Just had two real quick ones. Angela, on
Prevnar, what does long-term growth look like? Clearly, you may have a tougher competitive
environment. Just if you lose share, what do you think the TAM growth could look like to offset
that?
And then Michael, you talked a little bit about next-gen CDKs. I know it's super early in
development, but is there a risk-benefit hurdle you have in mind? I'm just thinking about, cost-
benefit post the Ibrance LOE, and also, considering the competitive landscape. Thank you very
much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Angela, how concerned you are with the competitive environment? I know we respect all
competitors, but we have some realities that maybe you want to discuss. And also, I will ask you
actually, `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease to answer the question of CDK4, since we have him here in his new
capacity. Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Well, I mean, I want to begin by just saying how incredibly proud we are of the performance of
the entire Prevnar franchise. If you look at the adult, the adult indication, we have grown -- not
only have we grown 23% since last year, this time, we're doing all of this growth prior to the fall
vaccination season, which is what you typically see. So, the fact that we've been able to bring
these vaccinations forward, tell us a lot about the work that we've done in pneumococcal
disease, how well appreciated it is, but also how well our machinery is working, not to mention
the fact that we have 96% share of the adult indication.
In peds also, of course, being that we went from being 100% of the market, today, we share
some of that market share with PCV15. But I just want to remind everyone that that is to be
expected, and we are exactly where we thought we would be. And so, from that perspective,
we're also really proud of how Prevnar 13 has competed with Prevnar PCV15. I think the important
thing here to realize is that given the ACIP recommendation that we just got for Prevnar Peds,
what we are beginning to see now is a sort of reversal of that decline and the reclaiming of
market share. And so, we have -- the fact that we've seen some accounts purchasing PCV20
Peds now, we've seen some accounts switching from PCV15 to our own Prevnar 20. The fact that
our federal contracts had added Prevnar 20 to their register, which means that public vaccinations
can begin.
And then maybe the one thing I will mention about Prevnar Peds, which is unique compared to
any other pneumococcal vaccine, which is that we were given the recommendation to vaccinate,
well, kids 2 to 18 immunocompromised. So that is a whole new population that we've never had
before. So when you kind of bring all of this together and you factor that this quarter alone,
Prevnar franchise generated $1.3 billion in revenue, just this one quarter, I think that order of
magnitude gives you a sense of the scale and the competitiveness of our portfolio. And we're
really excited about what Prevnar can do over the next coming quarters.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `And that is under the competition of PCV15, which I think was around $150 million, if I'm not
mistaken. Chris, can you please speak about the CDK4 and the franchise in general over there?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Thank you for the question. So as you know, ER positive breast cancer is the most common
cancer globally for women. And we're very proud that we can build on our leadership in cell cycle
inhibition with Ibrance and with three first-in-class potential assets, CDK4 specific inhibitor, CDK2
specific inhibitor and a KAT6 specific inhibitor, all three with significant potential to transform
treatment in the future for ER-positive breast cancer.
For CDK4, we have seen more complete and continuous CDK4 target coverage and potentially
improved tolerability due to reduced CDK6 inhibition. And as Mikael has pointed out, CDK6 leads
to the hematological vulnerability. We know that epithelial cells specifically highly express CDK4,
and that's why it's so important to specifically target CDK4.
And what we've seen, as Michael has pointed out, is a grade 3 neutropenia of 15% with our CDK4
inhibitor, and that's versus 60%, as expected with other CDK4/6 inhibitors. We've also not noted
any grade 3 diarrhea, and again, that's very different from what you know from some of the other
CDK4/6 inhibitors. We're accelerating our registration strategy with the first study in second line,
post-CDK4/6, where we've recently shown 30% overall response rate in a heavy pre-treated
population. And we're also starting combinations with CDK4 plus CDK2, as well as CDK4 with our
potential next-generation backbone, ARV-471 or Vepdegestrant, which we are co-developing with
Arvinas.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Let's have the next question, please.
Operator
All right. Next, we have `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. If I could go back to the COVID guidance. Investors have been cautious, not only on
the level of your prior guidance for '23, but also the shape of the future revenue curves beyond
'23. So, my question is on the latter, the shape of the future curve. Are you confident still in saying
that 2023 should be the trough, and then you'll rebound to some higher level of sales in 2024
and beyond and see kind of continued growth from that point forward? Or is that now more
uncertain too? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you. Yes, I think that this year's utilization at the marketplace will form the basis that we
can predict reliably for the next year. I don't think we'll be any much different because there will
be no different categories in the marketplace. Vaccination rates will settle and then the treatment
and infection rates also would be, after a new year, indicative of what we should expect
periodically.
Clearly, we will have to deal with some inventories movements, and this year was a transitioning
year because we are going to new prices, and we are going to absorption of inventories, et
cetera. So that should inform the accurate number for '24 and beyond, but should be the base.
And likely, it should be higher than what we should see this year, but that provided that we havereasonable vaccination and treatment rates of (inaudible). So, that's why I say that let's wait to
see what would be the actual in this year, and particularly what would be the utilization, as I said,
because next year, all these inventories and price adjustment things will be very clear what it will
be.
So, thank you very much for the question. Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Carter Gould, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Carter Gould, Barclays `
Good morning. And thank you for taking the question and for all the transparency on your thought
process on the COVID side. Plenty of good, great questions asked this morning. I guess one I
wanted didn't get addressed is, you out-licensed your TL1A late last year. Your partner then turns
around and sells it for quite substantially more.
I guess so to be a bit provocative, Albert, were Pfizer shareholders well-served by this course of
events? I would love to give you the opportunity to address that publicly. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Carter, for giving us this opportunity. And also, thank you for recognizing the
transparency. I think that's very important, particularly when there's uncertainty. We should all
know what the scenarios and the parameters are and what the actions that could be potentially
triggered for different scenarios.
Now, let's go to TL1A and let's see what is the situation. Aamir, have we served the shareholders
the best of our knowledge or not?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thanks for the question, Carter. And obviously, I'm not going to comment on the rumors and
speculation or the potential prices attached to different transactions. What I will say is we're very
pleased with our TL1A Televant [ph] partnership with Roivant. And we do think shareholders were
well served.
So as a reminder, why we entered this. We entered this as an R&D portfolio prioritization decision.
So from time to time, we make decisions as part of our discipline process to our partner R&D
programs where we think it is better to share the risk or the cost with a partner. And in this case,
Televant covers all of the R&D costs going forward, and that frees up significant R&D capacity for
Pfizer to invest in high-priority programs. But we still retain value in this program in three different
ways. We had a 25% equity stake in Televant. We have full ex-U.S. and ex-Japan rights, and we
earn royalties on the U.S. and Japan sales. So taken together, this collaboration allows us to keep
more than 50% of the total value of TL1A with zero incremental R&D spend. And for a Phase 2
program, we feel this is a very sound move for Pfizer shareholders.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Mikael, anything to add here?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development andAamir said it so well, and I just wanted to punctuate among the very many options, we have a
strong platform in bi-specific in many therapeutic areas, including in immunology and we do have
a TL1A p40 antibody that would be very interesting where we own even greater share. We have
triple specific that are going into atopic dermatitis. So this just punctuates and even in the very
same therapeutic area, we have so many things going on. And near term, we expect soon
approval for Etrasimod and another readout for Crohn. So a lot of stuff there.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Mikael. And don't tip competition too much about what we have in our
pocket. So, let's go to the next question.
Operator
Next, we have `Steve Scala, Cowen with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen `
Thank you very much. I just have an observation, then a question. But the observation is that it's
still not clear what has changed in your long-term COVID expectations versus when you first gave
the $30 billion guidance six months ago since in the prior six months, nothing really has changed
other than FDA action, which doesn't impact the long-term. So that's just an observation. But my
question is on Vyndaqel. Has -- Vyndaqel has become a very important franchise, yet its
exclusivity is not long in either the U.S. or the EU? Are there any strategies to get around the LOEs
or is it simply similar to Eliquis where post-LOEs, Pfizer will move on to other products? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So why don't you take the question, Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Yes. Well, it is, as you say, an incredibly important product, and we're just so proud of the fact that
it's still growing 40-something percent, this quarter. I think when it comes to LOEs, just from the
perspective of how we see it, our composition of (inaudible) patent expires in 2024, but we have
patent term extensions that get us to December of 2028. In the EU, it's 2026. In Japan, it goes
right up to 2029. So actually, I feel like we still have a good runway as it pertains to this product,
more diagnoses that we need to do and more patients that we can capture onto Vyndaqel,
especially with the incredibly competitive and differentiated profile that we have.
As you say, we're always working with Aamir, looking at opportunities as to what might be good
fits into -- what might fit well into this franchise and this portfolio, but I guess from my
perspective, with or without it, we see an incredibly strong opportunity for us to continue to
capture growth.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Angela. May we go to the next question, please?
Operator
Next question comes from `David Risinger, Leerink Partners with Leerink Partners. Your line is open.
Q - `David Risinger, Leerink Partners `Yes. Thanks very much. So my question is on Pfizer's mRNA flu vaccine candidate, please. And
Sanofi had stated at its recent Vaccines Analyst Day that first-generation mRNAs against flu will
not deliver sufficient strain B efficacy given mRNA technical issues in targeting strain B. So could
you just comment on that and your expectations for your vaccine's southern hemisphere strain B
efficacy results later this year? I know that there wasn't the emergence of strain B in the northern
hemisphere, but I'm curious about your expectations for demonstrating that strain B efficacy in
the southern hemisphere.
And then in addition, if you could just comment on your expected reactogenicity profile for mRNA
flu versus Comirnaty's reactogenicity profile? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, David. Very good questions. Mikael, so are -- the technical issues that
Sanofi is having, are we experiencing them as well?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
Well, I think there are difference between maybe the pioneering mRNA companies, Pfizer and of
course, there is Moderna that have worked in this technology many years. We have ourselves
been five years into it and make ample improvement across the entire mRNA chain.
And I think, it just gives us a big leg up and all the experience we had with the COVID vaccine. So I
can't really comment on the issues that Sanofi are facing. I share a much more positive -- I have a
much more positive outlook that we have in our capability to design mRNA vaccines that will be
powerful against flu A and also against flu B. And let's wait as we accumulate data and see the
outcome. But I'm optimistic about that and realize it's a field that requires a lot of capability to
enter.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
What about the reactogenicity?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and
The flu reactogenicity has actually been moderate, been really good. So that's not an issue at all
at any of the doses that we have been testing in young or older patients.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for clarifying, Mikael. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Andrew Baum, Citi with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Thank you. Could you talk about the impact of price negotiation under the IRA expressly? Could
you talk to whether you'll be able to collapse the rebate to PBMs in order to offset the impact of,
let's say, Eliquis price reduction following the price negotiations and therefore protect your
earnings? Or do you think you'll have to still pay the PBMs that pound of flesh even though
they're being able to buy the drug at a much reduced price -- or fund the drug at a much reduced
price?And then separately for Mikael, given the recent acquisition of Seagen, to what extent -- or
planned acquisition of Seagen, to what extent do you believe that there is a potential to review
your existing pipeline in order to make room and further optimize your R&D spend to put behind
Seagen's additional assets?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So why don't we go first to Angela about what IRA will mean in terms of changing
derivatives, et cetera, which it's quite a new situation. So we'll have to see how it plays. But if you
want to speak a little bit about it, Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Yes. Sure. So that's exactly right, Albert. I think there's just -- it's a new policy and lots to
understand in terms of how it's going to play out. As you say, there will be price negotiations, but
at the same time, I think that what we also have to remember, Andrew, is that there's a mitigating
factor of the fact that more patients likely will be able to get on Eliquis because of the co-pay
threshold and that sort of cap we're going to have as a function of IRA.
And so, I think it's a dynamic situation. There's lots for us to consider as it pertains to pricing,
rebates, but also patient utilization of the drug, and all of this will play out. I guess as it pertains
specifically also to Eliquis, just to remind everyone that though it's obviously one of our largest
drugs, its LOE will be around that '26 timeframe. So whatever the impact is, it will not be long
lasting on our portfolio because it's losing patent anyway around that time.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Angela. It's an evolving environment, so we need to continue to see it.
Also, Andrew, very quickly on the pipeline issue. We have made very clear that the seasonal
acquisition will mean nothing to the pipeline assets. So no pipeline assets will be eliminated or
reduced or increased as a result of -- actually would be increases because we do combinations,
but will not be any reductions on pipeline assets as a result of this acquisition. Can we have the
next question, please?
Operator
Next, we have `Chris Schott, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Schott, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks very much. Just a two-parter on Cominarty. Can you just help me a little bit in terms
of, I guess, with the updated vaccine being commercialized in September, how much of your
remaining COVID revenue should we think about in 3Q versus 4Q? I'm just trying to get my sense
of when we get this 3Q update, will that be based on the sales we're seeing in the quarter or
more your interpretation of the trend we're seeing for vaccinations, just setting expectations. And
the second part was on the EU contract renegotiation. Just any additional color you can provide
on how different, I guess, the terms end up being for 2023 relative to what was reflected in the
2023 guidance. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you very much. I can take it very quickly. Look, if you see, we will have basically July,
August, September in the third quarter. So the vaccinations with the new would start in
September, hopefully. Of course, what we expected is that we will have approval by the end ofAugust. And we are ready with product already now. So we have -- so production will not be an
issue. So normally, we should have also in Q3, most of it in Q4. But what really will clarify us at the
end of Q3, plus also the amount that takes after Q3 until we give -- until we present our Q3
results, it is really the vaccination rate, right? That is what will inform. And the net price, right?
Because everything, after all, we will know way better what the net price. So a very big part of this
uncertainty for Comirnaty will go away.
On the EU contract renegotiation, I don't know if you noticed, I did say that when we gave our
guidance, we were expecting that we will have incorporated assumptions that we will renegotiate
the EU contract. And our assumptions were assuming that we will do over three years. Now, we
did over four years, which that creates a pressure to our guidance, but then we had some
contracts that we didn't expect guidance in Latin America particularly, that offset very big part of
that. So that's why, there's no -- that by itself is not a reason to change guidance one way or
another. Really, as I said, vaccination rates, it is what will define what is the potential of these
vaccines for the years to come.
Thank you very much, Chris. And then let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC with HSBC. Your line is open.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Just one from me. You're doing a lot of
acquisitions. You've done a large one, Seagen, recently, it's not completed. But as we look
forward, how do you think the -- what are the sort of integration challenges you see, both on the
execution commercial side but also on the scientific side? What are the things that get you
excited versus worried?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
For the Seagen acquisition, right?
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Yes.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Let me start with --
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
You've got multiple acquisitions before that as well. So just you've got multi-integrations going on
sort of --
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Exactly, yes.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
That's why I ask the question.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So let me start with what excites us with Seagen, and I think, it's the science behind this company.
The ADCs are playing a key role right now more and more in our research and in our fight against
cancer. And Seagen has one of the two leading platforms, and we believe, it's actually a better
one.
So I think that excites me a lot. Also, what excites me a lot it is that Seagen was able to achieve all
this greatness with limited resources relatively compared to what we are bringing on the table.
And what we are bringing on the table on the research front, of course, is not only the capital but
also a significant expertise on designing the molecules and particularly the small molecules, we
are very, very, very good. So, when it speaks about payloads, I think we can contribute significantly
into that.
Secondly, we are thinking that there is such a nice way of being able to commercialize those
products of Seagen that are already in the market or will come, because first of all, we have
global presence that Seagen is lacking. And also, in the U.S., we will almost triple our resources
once the whole thing is integrated.
So there is a lot of things to be excited. Now as you rightly pointed out, things happen in
integrations that you need to be well aware. And that all we -- we have our fair share of things
that we did wrong in the past and we have our fair share of things that we did right in the past.
So I know what is extremely, extremely important is to make sure that first of all, there will be no
cultural clash as we are putting together with the organization. To that end, we are very, very lucky
because oncology companies tend to have very, very similar cultures, irrelevant if they are small
or big, they are oncology companies. And that was evident in the chemistry of our scientists
compared to the (inaudible).
Actually, where it is really evident, it is how many of the great scientists of Seagen raised their
hand to join Chris' leadership team as we are going forward. And those scientists who have
published this information who will be coming from Seagen, actually many of them will lead the
global oncology business. Not only our post acquisition, not only the Pfizer one, but they will lead
the global -- not only the Seagen one, but the global, which is Seagen plus.
The second thing that we need to be very careful, it is that we don't slow down things and we
don't increase cost of things. This is something that we have seen when big companies are
acquiring small, that the many times cost goes double and the timelines goes also double.
So that's something that we must avoid. And in order to avoid, we are doing tremendous, pre-
integration planning to make sure that innovation will be enhanced dramatically after we are
putting the two together. And I have full trust on, of course, Chris that is leading this integration
and this planning for months now. And last but not least, many times when you have an
integration, it could go wrong and it is good if the CEO, which is the one who can resolve conflicts
in a corporation and make decisions fast, has very high visibility in what is happening. So,
(inaudible) very fast, this is our biggest investment for many decades. That's clearly the biggest
investment under my watch.
And we take it very seriously as one of the most potential exciting opportunities to grow, but
also, we are very cognizant that we should make sure that nothing goes wrong. So, I'm personally
on it and Seagen is going to be one of our biggest bets, as you can see, going forward. So, we
are using all our experience and the best people, and I'm very, very pleased. And I'm very, very
pleased because chemistry of the two teams is unbeatable right now. And they are working likeone, and they are all coming to see the new Seagen/Pfizer Oncology portfolio growing faster
than when we were alone.
And with that, we will move to our last question.
Operator
Our last question will come from `Michelle Rivera, InThought Research with InThought Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Michelle Rivera, InThought Research
Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. What's the status of the DMD gene therapy
program? Have you finalized dosing patients? I read a statement at a recent conference that you
finalized screening patients, so I wasn't sure whether that meant that the trial had been paused.
Just some clarity around that and when we should expect data would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Chris, you were running DMD until recently. Now you, of course, provided to Mikael, the
responsibility. So can you give us a little bit very quickly, what is the status of DMD?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Yes. Thank you. So the -- as I mentioned earlier, the clinical trial has now completed enrollment. As
you pointed out, we halted dosing for the last couple of patients due to a protocol amendment,
but we're very confident that we'll go ahead and have the interim analysis later this year based
on a functional endpoint which will be substituted also or -- and which will be -- yes, with the
biomarker data. So we'll have both functional data as well as biomarker data later this year.
And then the final analysis for the full study in 2024. We've also fully enrolled now the earlier age
group of patients between the ages of 2 and 3 years old, 10 patients enrolled in that trial. So
we're looking forward to share the data later this year for you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. In summary, I think we had a solid quarter to continue to invest to support
our unprecedented 19 potential launches in an 18-month period. These are doing very well. The
plan is executed as per the timelines in our pipeline and in value-creating, revenue-generating
business development opportunities like Seagen, which as I articulated. Just a question before
that, it is clearly our big bet and our very, very big opportunity moving forward.
Over the next three months, we look forward to moving beyond the current uncertainty related
to our COVID-19, related revenues. So we'll have better clarity and by the end of the year, we'll
have the uncertainty removed almost at last. To that extent that any adjustments are made to our
cost base for '24 and beyond, we are ready to make. I want to reemphasize that the biggest
uncertainty in terms of the long-term is the vaccination rate. Some short-tern uncertainties like,
when commercialization will be, I think it's just a question of time. But the vaccination and
treatment rates that we are going to see, I think will inform what is -- what we should expect for
the years to come, with only upside if we have a combination of vaccines. Putting all these factors
together, we remain confident in our ability to deliver robust operational growth and deliver
meaningful shareholder value through the end of the decade and beyond.
And now we will bring our call to a close. Thank you for joining us, and have a great rest of your
day.Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude Pfizer's second quarter 2023 earnings
conference call. We appreciate your participation, and you may disconnect at any time.