Q3 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Francesca
DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President. Please go ahead, ma'am.
`Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President `
Good morning, and welcome to Pfizer's earnings call. I'm `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President, Chief Investor
Relations Officer. On behalf of the Pfizer team, thank you for joining us. This call is being made
available via audio webcast at pfizer.com.
Earlier this morning, we released our results for the third quarter of 2023. Our earnings materials
can be accessed on the IR website at investors.pfizer.com. I'm joined today by Dr.`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
our Chairman and CEO; `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO, and Dr.`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and, President, Pfizer Research
and Development.Joining for the Q&A session, we will also have `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business, Chief Commercial Officer and
President, Global Pharmaceuticals Business, `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Business Innovation Officer,
Dr.`Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease, our Chief Oncology Research and Development Officer, and `Doug Lankler, General Counsel, Executive Vice President, our
General Counsel.
Before we get started, I want to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements. I
encourage you to read the disclaimer on Slide 3. Additional information regarding these
statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our earnings release and in our
SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q under risk factors and forward-looking information and factors that may
affect future results.
Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risk and uncertainty, speak only
as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these
statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Francesca. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Pfizer continues to have
a far-reaching and positive impact on human health. Through the first nine months of the year,
more than 457 million patients around the world were treated with our medicines and vaccines.
Compared with the first nine months of 2022, we have reached more patients in several key
therapeutic areas, including oncology, cardiovascular disease, and anti-infections.
Patients will always be our North Star, and these figures serve as a testament to our leadership in
innovation and our commitment to understanding and serving patients' needs.
During the third quarter, we were encouraged by the continuous strong performance of Pfizer's
non-COVID products, with revenue from these products growing 10% operationally compared
with a year ago quarter. We saw significant contributions from new launches and robust year-
over-year growth for several key in-line brands.
Our recently launched respiratory syncytial virus, the RSV vaccine, which is called Abrysvo,
contributed $375 million in U.S. revenues. With the recent approval of the maternal indication,
Pfizer is the only company with an RSV vaccine approved for preventing RSV in older adults and in
infants via maternal immunization.
We believe Abrysvo will be a significant and growing contributor to revenue as many customers
have indicated to us that protecting both populations with one vaccine is desirable and a
competitive advantage for Abrysvo.
In the U.S. alone, there are approximately 80 million adults over age 60, who are eligible for RSV
vaccination and an estimated 1.5 million pregnant women are eligible for maternal immunization
with the RSV vaccine between September '23 and January '24.
Nurtec, Vydura and Oxbryta, which were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2022, contributed $233
million $85 in global revenues, respectively.
For Nurtec, in the U.S., oral CGRPs represent about 17% of the migraine market, and the unmet
need is high. We believe oral CGRPs can ultimately be the first-line therapy for migraine and could
eventually account for as much as 40% of the overall migraine market.Primary care is a clear source of potential growth in the migraine marketplace. Year-to-date,
Primary Care healthcare providers wrote more than 6.1 million prescriptions for Triptans compared
with approximately 1 million for all our CGRPs, which highlights a significant potential opportunity
for growth.
Regarding Oxbryta, there is a significant burden of illness and unmet need for patients suffering
from sickle cell disease. An estimated 12 million people around the world have SCD, sickle cell
disease, with the highest prevalence in countries with the lowest resources. While in the U.S. 95%
of children survive to adulthood, 99% of children in other regions will die before they reach their
fifth birthday, many without even ever being diagnosed.
Our Vyndaqel family of products, including Vyndaqel, Vyndamax, Vynmac, recorded 47% globally
compared with the third quarter of 2022. This growth was driven largely by continued strong
uptake of the transferred amyloid cardiomyopathy in the case, primarily in the U.S. and developed
Europe.
We estimate there are between 120,000 and 150,000 people suffering from ATTR
cardiomyopathy, with a majority still not yet diagnosed. The largest unmet need continues to be
the lack of general understanding and ability to diagnose this deadly disease, which is why we are
focused on educational activities to expedite diagnosis and get appropriate patients on the
treatment with the product as the proven standard of care.
Such efforts significantly contributed to this quarter's revenue increase in the U.S. and our
prevalent family of products, prevalent 13 and prevalent 20. So, global revenue rise 15%
operationally compared with a year ago quarter. This increase was driven primarily by strong
patient demand for Prevnar 20 adult in the U.S., the U.S. approval of Prevnar 20 pediatrics and
associated stocking, and growth of Prevnar 13 pediatrics in certain emerging markets. These were
partially offset by anticipated lower market share in the U.S. for Prevnar pediatric due to
competitive entry.
Of note, Prevnar 20 adult remains the category-leading pneumococcal vaccine for adults in the
U.S. with a 95% market share in the third quarter. Here today, revenues for our non-COVID
products have grown 7% operationally and we remain on track to deliver 6% to 8% operational
revenue growth for these products for the full year.
We continue to progress toward our goal of executing an unprecedented number of launches of
new products or indications. Recent milestones include U.S. and EU approvals and launch of
Abrysvo in pregnant individuals; U.S. approval and launch of Elrexfio in relapsed refractory multiple
myeloma; U.S. approval of our Braftovi and Mektovi combination in BRAF-mutated metastatic non-
small cell lung cancer; U.S. approval of Velsipity for moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis; EC
approval of Litfulo for severe alopecia areata; and U.S. approval of Penbraya, the first and only
pentavalent vaccine that provides coverage against the five most common serogroups causing
meningococcal disease in adolescents and young adults 10 through 25 years of age.
Today, we have now executed 13 of the 19 originally identified potential launches with four other
products approved and preparations being made for their launch. In fact, five of the six remaining
potential launches have been largely de-risked from a technical perspective. The only one
remaining would be our mRNA flu candidate.
Given our recent positive results from our next-generation mRNA flu COVID combination
candidate and pending results for our 65 and older first generation first three standalone mRNA
flu study, timing of our standalone mRNA flu is now expected after 2024. If successful, our next-generation mRNA through COVID combination candidate is expected to market in 2025. Mikael
will share more about these programs shortly.
We remain excited about our proposed acquisition of Seagen and the dramatic impact we think
this combination can have on human health. One in three people will be diagnosed with cancer in
their lifetime, so conquering cancer would have an almost unimaginable impact on humanity.
We recently gained unconditional antitrust clearance from the EC, and we continue to expect the
transaction to close in late 2023 or early 2024, subject to customary closing conditions, including
clearance by the U.S. FTC.
We have raised $31 billion in acquisition financing so far, and continue to expect incremental 2030
risk-adjusted revenues in excess of 10 billion and expected cost efficiencies of 1 billion to be
realized by the end of year 3 post-close without impacting any R&D program.
With that, I turn it over to Dave, and after Dave, Mikael will provide an update on our R&D
pipeline. So, Dave.
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert, and good morning. Before I review this quarter's results, I'll address a couple
of topics that have been top of mind with investors since our announcement on October 13.
These topics relate to our future U.S. government Paxlovid revenue forecast, as well as our multi-
year cost realignment program.
With respect to revenue recognition associated with the amended agreement, the U.S.
government is expected to return an estimated 7.9 million EUA-labeled treatment courses, and in
return, will receive a volume-based credit at an approximate value of $4.2 billion at the end of
2023 for future treatment courses.
Pfizer will also provide an additional 1 million treatment courses into the U.S. Strategic National
Stockpile. As a result of all of that, Pfizer has an obligation to deliver an estimated 8.9 million
treatment courses, for which we will record approximately $4.2 billion of revenue, beginning in
2024 as we deliver these treatment courses. It is important to note that there is no cash
compensation for the estimated 8.9 million treatment courses delivered.
Regarding our cost realignment program, I want to reiterate that we expect to achieve at least
$3.5 billion of net cost savings by the end of 2024 versus the midpoint of our August 1, 2023 SI&A
R&D guidance. We expect $1 billion of targeted savings in 2023, and expect an additional savings
of at least $2.5 billion in 2024. In a moment when I review the components of our full-year 2023
guidance you will see that we have lowered the midpoints of both our SI&A and R&D guidance
ranges by $500 million respectively.
Now turning to the quarter, our Q3 results both top and bottom line were significantly and
negatively impacted by our COVID products. Revenues declined 41% operationally. The result of
the decrease in both Paxlovid and Comirnaty sales while adjusted diluted loss per share was also
significantly impacted by $5.6 billion of non-cash inventory write-offs of COVID-related
inventories.
I want to emphasize, as Albert stated previously, that the operational revenue growth of our
products in Q3, excluding both Paxlovid and Comirnaty, were strong at 10%. Contributing to the
strong performance was our newly approved RSV vaccine and the families of products associated
with both Prevnar and Vyndaqel.Additionally, our recently acquired products, Nurtec and Oxbryta, also contributed to this strong
performance.
Our reported diluted loss per share of $0.42 and adjusted diluted loss per share of $0.17 in the
quarter are primarily the result of the decline in Paxlovid and Comirnaty sales and the non-cash
charge related to write-offs of COVID-related inventories.
The inventory write-off of $4.7 billion for Paxlovid and $900 million for Comirnaty negatively
affected adjusted loss per share by $0.84.
Foreign exchange movements had a de minimis unfavorable impact on third quarter revenues
and increased adjusted diluted loss per share by $0.04 or 2% compared to LY.
Now let me briefly touch on our full-year guidance. Given we updated our full-year revenue EPS
guidance on October 13, I'm just going to hit a few of the highlights. Total company full-year 2023
revenues are expected to be in the range of $58 billion to $61 billion versus the previous range of
$67 billion to $70 billion.
Importantly, we continue to expect 6% to 8% full-year operational revenue growth for non-COVID
products year-over-year and as anticipated the majority of this growth is incurring in the second
half the year, given the timing of new products and indicated launches. I want to remind you that
beginning in Q4, we will overlap the acquisitions of both Biohaven and GBT, which will -- which
were completed in October of 2022.
Adjusted cost of sales and percentage of revenue is expected to be in the range of 41% to 43%,
primarily the result of the $5.6 billion non-cash charge related to inventory write-offs for our
COVID products. Adjusted SI&A expenses are expected to be in the range of $13.3 billion to $14.3
billion. And adjusted R&D expenses to be within a range of $11.9 billion to $12.9 billion.
The midpoints of both ranges are now $500 million lower than our original guidance. As a result
of all these, the company now expects full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share to be in the
range of $1.45 to $1.65 per share versus the original guidance range of $3.25 to $3.45.
All additional components of our guidance are included in our press release that was issued
earlier today. As discussed in prior quarters, our capital allocation strategy is based on three core
pillars. First is reinvesting in our business. Second is growing our dividends over time. And third is
making value enhancing share repurchases.
In the first nine months of 2023, we invested $7.9 billion in internal R&D, returned $6.9 billion to
shareholders via our quarterly dividend and allocated approximately $43 billion towards a
proposed Seagen acquisition.
Lastly, in addition to completing a $31 billion unsecured debt offering in Q2 of this year, we are
ready to execute the remaining short-term financing to complete the proposed Seagen
acquisition upon fulfillment of the required closing conditions.
We expect to de-lever our capital structure following the completion of this transaction, and as
we de-lever, we anticipate returning to a more balanced capital allocation strategy, inclusive of
share repurchases.
In closing, I want to reiterate that our product portfolio remains very strong. We continue to be
encouraged by the momentum of our non-COVID products in Q3 and are committed to the
successful execution of our new product and indication launches. We expect the cost realignmentAnd with that, let me turn it over to Mikael.
`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you, Dave. Today I will share important updates from our robust respiratory vaccine
portfolio. Our respiratory vaccines are built upon three cutting edge platforms that enable us to
bring the right science to the right pathogen.
These include our mRNA platform in partnership with BioNTech targeting highly variant viruses.
Our subunit platform targeting viruses that remain relatively consistent season to season, and our
conjugate vaccine platform designed to help prevent bacterial infections. We have achieved FDA
approvals of vaccines derived from each platform within the last year and aim to further expand
our leadership with additional vaccine candidates in development.
Today, I will provide information on our standalone flu vaccine candidate, flu COVID combination
vaccine candidates and next-gen pneumococcal vaccine candidates. We are pleased to announce
that we achieved both primary endpoints in the 18- to 64-year-old cohort of our ongoing Phase 3
flu trial.
In the trial, our first-gen mRNA flu vaccine candidate demonstrated non-inferiority and superiority
to a licensed flu vaccine at the time of the primary analysis. This represents the first and only
demonstration of efficacy and superiority for an mRNA-based flu vaccine candidate.
In this age cohort, efficacy was maintained through the trial's end-of-season analysis, with our
candidate remaining non-inferior to the licensed comparator. Safety was similar to the standard
flu vaccine. The primary and end-of-season efficacy analyses considered both Influenza A and B
cases collectively. The vast majority of cases recorded in our trial and during the '22 slash '23 flu
season overall were flu A cases.
Immunogenicity data showed robust antibody responses against influenza A, compared to
licensed flu vaccine. Humoral responses against influenza B were lower than those achieved with
a comparator. Recall that our standalone flu vaccine Phase 3 study also include a 65 year and
older cohort that we previously shared encouraging T-cell data for all four strains from the Phase
2 study in this cohort.
Our belief is that the ability of the vaccine candidate to induce T cell responses may contribute to
the improved efficacy over current seasonal flu vaccines, particularly those 65 and older. We
expect the readout from this age group later this year.
To address the lower B responses seen with our first-gen standalone flu candidate, Pfizer
created next generation's reformulations. These were incorporated into our mRNA flu candidates
in combination with the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, which I will review now.
In positive Phase 1, 2 top-line data announced last week, we observed that reformulation of the
lead flu candidates resulted in improved immunity against influenza B, allowing us to meet all
criteria for advancement to Phase 3.
In the trial, our lead candidate formulations induced robust immune responses with point
estimates for Geometric Mean Titer ratios that were consistent with criteria applied to approve
vaccines for all matched flu and SARS-CoV-2 strains. Notably, point estimate for Geometric Mean
Titer ratios with selected candidate formulations were greater than one relative to their licensed
comparator for all matched flu vaccine strengths. The safety profile of evaluated candidates were
consistent with Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine.Following these positive immunogenicity data, we plan to initiate a Phase 3 study in the coming
months. Successfully developing a broad seasonal vaccine franchise anchored around the modFlu
mRNA vaccine is a key priority, as it may allow us to tap into the nearly 50% annual flu vaccination
rate in the U.S. adults.
We are taking a differentiated approach in pursuit of this goal, leveraging both mRNA and protein
subunit technologies. Our development program includes double and triple combination vaccines
to potentially help protect against flu, COVID-19 and RSV.
Now, turning to Prevnar, I'll start by reminding you that this is the only PCV business with an FDA
indication for pneumonia in adults. Providing protection specifically against pneumococcal
pneumonia is critical. It's the most common form of pneumococcal disease in adults, leading to
150,000 U.S. hospitalizations each year.
The prevalence of non-bacterial pneumococcal pneumonia is more than 15-fold, greater than that
of invasive pneumococcal disease in U.S. adults 50 and older.
Prevnar's pneumonia indication is supported by the CAPiTA trial, which was enabled by a
pneumococcal vaccine population and proprietary assay. These innovative characteristics make it
challenging for others to conduct a similar study, given the high level of pneumococcal vaccine
coverage that exists today.
CAPiTA's innovative design and landmark results helped establish our leading and differentiated
position in the PCV space. To solidify this position, we are committed to pursuing continued
innovation. Our goal is to potentially maximize valency and improve immunity while maintaining
coverage of the serotypes clinically demonstrated to protect against pneumonia.
In line with this commitment, we have been developing a fourth-generation PCV candidate that
builds on the Prevnar business 20 plus years of innovation. Our next-generation technology
leverages cutting-edge conjugation, chemistry, carriers and reformulation.
Using these new proprietary vaccine technologies, we observed a several-fold improvement in
select serotype immunogenicity in a monovalent Phase 1 study. Based on this data, we are
confident that when we move this technology into our multivalent fourth-gen candidate, we have
the potential to achieve increased valency with improved serotype immunogenicity. We are now
advancing our fourth-generation candidate into a first-in-human trial, which is expected to begin in
fourth quarter of 2023.
Finally, I will leave you with our list of milestones and call out the recent approval of Velsipity for
ulcerative colitis; and Penbraya, the first pentavalent meningococcal vaccine.
Pfizer has delivered more than a dozen regulatory approvals this year alone. I will also note the
recent launches of Abrysvo for maternal immunization; and Elrexfio in multiple myeloma.
Thank you. Let me turn it back to Francesca to start the Q&A session.
`Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President `
Thanks, Mikael. With that, let's start the Q&A session. We will answer as many questions as time
permits, and IR will be available after the call to answer any follow-up questions.
Operator, please assemble the queue.
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions). And our first question will come from `Robyn Karnauskas, Truist Securities with Truist
Securities.
Q - `Robyn Karnauskas, Truist Securities `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I think I have a big picture question on your new launches, which
is extremely important for your growth. Are you seeing any impact given, I think, vaccine fatigue
that we've seen with COVID impacting RSV and pneumococcal vaccines? And how do you think
about that impact as you think about 2023 and 2024, you think that will dissipate? Thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your questions. First of all, I think it's good when you have a portfolio, and we have
a quite strong portfolio, because we have RSV, we have COVID, and we have pneumococcal in
the respiratory front. But I think the biggest impact will be, when and if, we have combination
products.
We think that combination products will, because of their convenience, because vaccines are
preferred by payers with zero copay, will increase basically the volumes and vaccination rates of
all vaccines because of the convenience of one injection.
And I think this is why you saw from Mikael, all our efforts right now are in developing multiple
combinations, so that consumers and physicians will have choice which ones to administer, always
with the same convenience.
I think we can go to the next question. Thank you very much, Robyn.
Operator
Our next question will come from Hun [ph] Truong with UBS.
Q - Analyst
Hi. Thanks for the questions. I have one on flu and then just one on Danu. So, on flu, can you
confirm the comparator in the 18 to 64, and also the 64 age groups was the low-dose flu
vaccines. Is there a risk FDA is going to need data against high-dose flu vaccines?
And from a commercial perspective, do you think you still need high-dose flu data, the
comparator against high-dose flu data, given that's what's recommended by CDC in the older
population?
And then on Danu, should we -- just on the data that we expect before year end, what do you
need to show in that in order to move it into Phase 3 trials? Is something similar to the Phase 2
we saw earlier this year enough to move it to Phase 3? Thanks very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. On the flu comparator, I can confirm that it is the low dose on the younger population
because that's the only one that's allowed. So, on the older population, we are having studies
now with a very low dose, but we will do also with the higher dose. So we'll have both.On Danu, there's not much to say. We need to wait to see the data. There is clearly when you are
moving ahead with a program like that, you need to see the totality of the data. And we are
working now intensively to be able to have those data presented before year end. Let's move to
the next question.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Umer Raffat, Evercore with Evercore.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore `
Hi, guys, thanks for taking my question. I wanted to continue on the oral obesity theme for a
second. I noticed there's a new molecule 522 that you moved into Phase 1. And my question is, is
the chemical structure and the chemical series akin to the Danuglipron programs?
And also, Albert, you mentioned you want to wait to see the Danuglipron Phase 2 data, but I
realize the trial has been wrapped up for a few weeks now. Have you not seen it yet? Thank you
very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Mikael, would you like to take the question about the new molecule and Danu?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes, we are building a platform around the GLP area and also obesity in general, with multiple
different mechanisms and compounds.
We remain focused on the Danuglipron readout, as Albert mentioned, as our main opportunity
here for getting data to review for obesity and type 2 diabetes. But, there are many indications
where GLP might play a role outside the typical metabolic. So, this one gives us just more option
to explore and have interesting data. And you will see more new mechanisms also coming from
Pfizer. We have a pretty strong effort here. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Let's go to the next call.
Operator
Next, we have `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Maybe two for me. I was just wondering on your RSV launch,
how we should think about the potential for revaccination in 2024.
And then on your DMD gene therapy program, I think you've previously talked about having
interim data by year end, is that still the case? And does the recent competitor data make you
more or less optimistic in your program. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. First of all, let me make a comment on the recent data that we saw about
the DMD failures. It is a very, very bad news for patients. We are really, this is a patient thatdoesn't have solutions. I hope there will be a solution for them with the discussion of the FDA,
although I can't comment.
Now, on our DMD program, I will ask Mikael to comment on that and then on the RSV, Angela.
Mikael, why don't you start with the DMD and then Angela go to RSV.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes, I echo Albert's comment that we also always saddened when someone fail a study. We are
very encouraged about getting to the readout. You are right, there is an opportunity for an
interim analysis around year-end with final analysis second half of next year.
And overall, I think our gene therapy for DMD have shown a very consistent effect across
biomarkers and functional endpoint. And what has been differentiated so far is that when you
look at the functional data we've reported, it has been giving encouraging signals in both the
younger and the slightly older boys. And that has not been seen with the other company you
referred to.
So in a way, I remain as earlier, very positive about looking forward to the readout and let the
data tell the story. But of course, this makes our gene therapy in a way, the main game in town.
Then there was a question, Angela, on the RSV.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Well, as you heard during the ACIP discussions, our recommendation for Abrysvo today is really
one around shared clinical decision-making. But we also were asked to bring additional data when
they are ready.
So, just to confirm that we will have additional data in vaccine effectiveness in broader
populations, we will have safety data also in broader populations. We will also have
immunogenicity data in younger populations. All of this will be, I think, available in the next year
when we plan to bring this back to the CDC.
In addition to that, I omitted to mention that we'll also have second season efficacy data. So we'll
be able to bring this totality of data together to determine whether the recommendations will
change, but also what the vaccination schedule will be. So that's to come in 2024.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Steve Scala, TD Cowen with TD Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen `
Thank you very much. As was just noted a couple of minutes ago, the Danu data has reached its
primary completion. It was a while ago. Albert, when you were asked, you stressed the words,
totality of the data, implying that you could have seen some part of the data. Mikael, when you
were asked, you talked about different indications. These are not confidence-building
statements. So I'm curious, what have you seen?And Mikael, you said in the past you were absolutely encouraged and confident in the profile of
Danu. Are you still absolutely encouraged and confident? So that's the first question.
Secondly, a competitor spoke to potentially COVID-derived decrease in diagnosis of
inflammatory diseases such as UC. And I'm wondering if you've seen any of that. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Steve, I think you likely misunderstood my comments on the totality. It has nothing to do with any
data that I have seen, because I haven't, right? So the data have not been presented to -- I don't
think the study has been completed yet. So I will ask also Mikael to comment on that, but don't
read, please, anything on the totality of the data. What I meant, it is that we are doing this, we are
doing the release formulation, so which will make it once a day.
There are multiple things, but we need to wait and see. We see how competitors are doing
before deciding what we will do. But the most important thing is to see what is the efficacy and
safety of the study that will read out. So nothing to read in my comment on the totality of the
data. So Mikael, you want to add?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes, I can just echo what you said so well there, Albert. We, and I remain very enthusiastic to look
forward to see the data. We have not seen the final top line report coming yet.
So today, the study is still ongoing, but will be available before year-end. Danuglipron has shown,
as you know, some really interesting profile as a full agonist, and it's our main opportunity and
effort for obesity and type 2 diabetes.
We got earlier today a question about new molecules that are coming in, and that's when I
mentioned that there are additional indications to pursue for such new molecules. And we also
have new mechanisms that are validated that are coming in oral versions. So it just punctuates our
big effort we have around both this class and obesity and other disorders.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So, in essence, he's still excited very much, Mikael. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Louise Chen, Cantor with Cantor.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. So I wanted to ask you on this fourth generation PCV, how much
additional serotype coverage will you have? And then also on Abrysvo, will that be available to
pregnant women in the pharmacy or do they have to go to their OBGYN? And then lastly, just on
Danuglipron again here, will you also have the modified released data before year end? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael, you will take the PCV question and the Danu, but also Angela very quickly. Abrysvo is
available to pharmacists for pregnant women.Yes, it's going to be available in pharmacists, in doctor's offices, OBGYN offices. I think we have a
real stocking advantage here, Louise, because anyone just needs to stock one product for two
indications for both populations. So I think the uptake is to come, and certainly the next few
months, being that it's the winter is when we begin to, we believe we'll see some good uptake.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And then, Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
On the PCV fourth generation, I hope you looked at today's data and what you could see is that
we are really the first company that have been able to put in place a whole set of new technology
that can bring immune responses to a higher level than have been seen. And that allow us to go
with even more comprehensive coverage than the current 20. I'm not going to give your curiosity
and answer how many serotype I can just tell you, it's considerable more than the 20.
On Danu, we look upon Danuglipron as a once a day QD molecule, because of the reformulation
technologies that we have put in place and already generated some clinical data on, and are now
concluding. So that's really how we look upon Danuglipron.
We'll have final date on the best formulation option early next year. But as Albert said, we are
enthusiastic to look forward to the efficacy data later this year. So, very exciting time. Thank you
very much, Mikael. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
Next, we have `David Risinger, Leerink Partners with Leerink Partners.
Q - `David Risinger, Leerink Partners `
Yes, thanks very much. So, I have another question on Danuglipron, since it appears to be the
company's number one pipeline candidate based upon your forecasts. So, regarding the Phase
2B results that are expected soon, how should we expect Pfizer to share those results?
And then, with regard to the once daily formulation that you just mentioned, Mikael, will that be
ready for the Phase 3 start, assuming that the company moves to start Phase 3 shortly after the
phase 2B results are generated. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, the first question, given the importance of the market, we will sell them with a press
release. There may be a call or not. I don't -- but with a press release, we'll make them publicly
available. Now, Mikael, you want to take the second part of the question of David?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. I can first echo what Albert and I said. We look forward with, just to get Danuglipron obesity
data later this year.
And, of course, as Albert said, pending totality of reviewing everything we have, we have made a
lot of progress and been able to accelerate the Q.D. Danu. Now we're waiting for some more
clinical data early next year. But I think it's within our reach, if we decide to do -- to start the pivotal
study next year, to do it with a once-a-day molecule.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Mikael. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
Next, we have `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan `
Great, thanks so much. Just two for me here. First, could you just comment a little bit more on
what we're seeing with Nurtec, and the ramp relative to your expectations? And maybe just as
part of that, just any color on pricing we're seeing within the market today and how we should
think about that going forward?
And then my second question was on 2024, and I know you're not giving guidance today, but as
you look at where consensus has kind of shaken out post the COVID and cost restructuring
updates, I think the earnings are in kind of the low $3 range at this point. I guess just, are there
any directional kind of pushes or pulls in the numbers that you feel The Street isn't capturing
properly and should be kind of thinking about, before we get your kind of formal guidance as we
look to early next year? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. David (Multiple Speakers) about '24 guidance that you are not going to tell us?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Right. So, obviously, it's a little early for 2024. I will just say that clearly, we had a clearing event as
it relates to our COVID expectations for this year. So a lot of that risk is behind us as we think
about the balance of this year.
I do expect that the balance of this year will be very informative, particularly in the U. S. as we
think about utilization trends, both for vaccination rates and importantly Paxlovid here in the U. S.
that will allow us to have a better clarity as we cycle into 2024 of the utilization around those
specific products, which will still be meaningful to us at an enterprise level.
Clearly, when we get to providing guidance, we'll give you a lot of information beneath that. So
you can get a good sense of our importantly, our non-COVID products, which continue to trend
very favorably and very well. And we can layer on, I'll say, the optionality associated with our
COVID franchise as we cycle into next year. So, obviously a lot more to come. We're looking
forward to sharing those various details after the first year.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David. And then answer about the Nurtec launch -- not launch, about the Nurtec
performance in the marketplace, including the price.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Yes. So thanks for the question, Chris, because it's a great opportunity for us to share that we are
seeing Nurtec perform just as we expected. In fact, with some really strong performance
indicators that I'd like to share with you. First of all, from a TRX perspective, we grew 28%
compared to last year this time. And sequentially, we grew 6% versus last quarter. In fact, onOctober 20, we saw the highest week of TRXs and NRXs to date. That growth is also seen in the
number of prescribers.
Just this quarter alone, we had 73,000 prescribers write for Nurtec. And we are now moving at a
clip of about 23,000 writers a week, which is 30% more than UBRELVY and double that of
QULIPTA .
Another good place to look is also in new-to-brand starts, right, NBRXs. And when you look at
that, NBRX growth for Nurtec is higher than UBRELVY and QULIPTA in all the deciles of physicians,
but particularly in the decile 8 to 10s, which as is where the highest prescribers are or who are the
highest prescribers.
And then when you look at pill count, we see something interesting there too. We have been very
intensely or intently driving our pill pack toward the larger pill pack size, which is the 16 pack,
because of our prevention indication. And so when you look at the totality of all the pills or the
total volume of pills, we have a leading market share there, more than 50%.
And so I think when you look at all these indicators, at least from the way that we're looking at it,
it's a very positive story. It's exactly how we see it. The expansion into primary care, as you heard
in Albert's comments, is what it is that we're after.
And today, only 17% of the entire market is oral CGRPs, which tells you that most of the market is
still an opportunity for us and represents growth that we're really looking forward to. And I think
that we put the right investments in the right places to generate this growth in the future.
From a pricing perspective, obviously, it's a product that is rebated. And so I think the way to think
about it is that from a patient perspective, which is where we really put a lot of focus, we want to
make sure that our patients are able to get these scripts, are able to get access for Nurtec,
especially as you consider that we're trying to mobilize people away from topiramate and away
from Triptans onto all CGRPs.
So the gross net effects here are significant and you see that quarter-over-quarter, because we
are making sure that we're able to provide access to patients who deserve and are eligible for
Nurtec.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
Next, we have `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great, thank you for taking my question. And I have a question regarding your (Inaudible)
Etrasimod. Would love to get your thoughts from the label? It seems like, I mean, you could avoid
a lot of cardiac monitoring, but at the same time there's this new requirement of ophthal or eye
exam as well as skin exam. How do you think about uptake considering these examinations
before the start of the treatment, given that these doctors are not used to it.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, Mikael, quite a medical questions. Would you like to answer it, please?A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
I'm happy to start on it. I think we have a very robust label for etrasimod. It's the only S1P in this
drug class for ulcerative colitis that have a simple flat dosing and immediate start without any
prior need for, let's say, cardiac rhythm exams like the other drug in this class.
All S1P have various eye exams to monitor. And I think our label similarly has a recommendation to
do that, so it's really nothing new. And our efficacy date in UC has been very favorable, so we are
very optimistic that this can be a true best-in-class for ulcerative colitis.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Angela, do you want to add, yes?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure I was just going to add to that that competitively, we believe that we have an excellent
efficacy and safety profile. We don't have a need to titrate up as Mikael said. But also ask our
assessments of standard versus our competitors at the initiation of therapy. So I think that this is a
level playing field that we're in.
Certainly patient support is an area of focus for us, right, to ensure that patients are getting the
assessments that they need. But we feel that we're -- this is pretty standard practice, and we'll
be able to launch this product as planned.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Angela. Next question please.
Operator
Next we have `Geoff Meacham, BofA Securities with Bank of America.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, BofA Securities `
Good morning, everyone. Thanks for the question. Just have a couple of quick ones. First, I know
Seagen obviously hasn't closed yet, but with all the emphasis on ADCs from ESMO, does it affect
how you guys prioritize the pipeline or maybe investments you could make today commercially?
And the second question on Danu, Mikael, I know a lot's been asked on the upcoming data, but
from a commercial perspective, like, where do you see the bigger opportunities for
differentiation and metabolic? Is it really just oral administration and obesity, or do you guys look
more aggressively at related indications like cardio, renal, et cetera? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Chris, you want to take the question about Seagen and the pipeline.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Thank you very much. Obviously, we remain very confident that we will close Seagen towards the
end of this year, beginning next year. As you pointed out, there's a significant interest now in
ADCs because of the potential that they could replace most of the chemotherapeutics in the
future, for most cancer types. Seagen obviously has a significant track-record with four of theAnd as you've seen, three potential registration-based trials just read out with (Inaudible) and
with NAFDAC, but also with a small molecule to Kaiser. They recently started two Phase 3 studies,
one with Disitamab vedotin, in combination with Pembrolizumab in advanced metastatic, HER2-
positive or HER2-low bladder cancer. This is a program that we're very excited about.
Already Disitamab received previously breakthrough therapy designation in the U.S. And then also
just about to start another Phase 3 program in non-small cell lung cancer with their B6A, integrin
beta-6 antibody. So we remain very confident in their portfolio and the depth of expertise they're
bringing to the development and discovery of ADCs.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And then Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. I think you asked about how could a new oral GLP into obesity be positioned for maximal
attractiveness, and using Danu as one example, pending, of course, our excitement to see the
data.
Well, clearly, as obesity and type 2 diabetes with overweight are moving from being treated from
endocrinologists and metabolic physicians increasingly now to primary care, particularly with the
impressive effects of this drug class on obesity and body weight, oral agents in general are
preferred. So, I think once a day drugs such as the new reformulated potential Danuglipron would
have an interesting role there.
I think there is also a growing discussion among opinion leaders in the field that patients regain
weight when they stop the injectable, and in general, they are only available for maybe a year. So
an oral agent that could be taken for a longer period could also play a really interesting role to
maintain body weight at a low level.
And finally, you're absolutely right, the new data for this drug class suggests that patients could
benefit from both cardiac and renal protection, and oral agents allow you to build combination
with drugs that already are used in this population, such as S52 to protect the heart, et cetera. So
I think that's why there is such a big interest in drugs in this class. So, thank you for the question.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have Tim Anderson with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. I have a couple of questions on Danuglipron. The early data set showed a QTC signal.
Do you think that was a red herring that won't show up in later data? To me, when I just think
about drug classes and seeing QTC signals, it seems like it often persists in later data sets.
And then second question on mRNA flu. You mentioned that safety is the same as licensed
vaccines, does that mean tolerability was as well? I usually think of safety and tolerability as
technically being different from each other. Thank you.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Very good. Thank you very much for the question. Mikael, both questions for you. QTC for Danu,
and then tolerability.
{C: `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and: Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide
Research, Development and Medical of Pfizer Inc.: Pfizer Inc.:} Yes, I mean, we have, I think, more
than 1400 patients on Danuglipron, and it's a very safe drug. It's a very safe drug, and we look
forward to the readout and efficacy, as we have said before year-end. So that's very
straightforward.
MRNA flu, you had a very good comment, particularly in initial studies, tolerability is really what we
focus on, and tolerability was similar to standard-of-care available vaccines or the other mRNA
vaccines experienced from Pfizer, and we haven't really had any concerns about safety. So on
both tolerability and safety, the statement stands that it looks like previous versions of our
vaccines.
Thank you, Mikael. And let's go to the next question,
Operator
Next, we have `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Two questions, if I may. On the cost savings program, you've been outlining what the
plan is for 2024, but if we look at the pattern of the spending for R&D and SI&A in the quarter you
just reported, I would observe that the magnitude of reduction in the R&D spend was greater
than expected relative to SI&A. How should we be interpreting this number? Is there anything to
read across in terms of the relative amount of cost reductions coming from SI&A versus R&D on
the forward?
And then a question on Abrysvo. First quarter sales were solid. Can you just elaborate how much
may have been attributable to, for instance, inventory stocking versus actual demand? And if we
look at prescription data, looks like from the retail setting there's about a 30% market share. Is
this similar to what you're observing in the broader market and how is this comparing with your
expectation? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me ask David to answer the question about the R&D and SI&A expenses and then Angela will
take the Abrysvo.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Hey, Chris, on the cost program, I would not read into the allocation of savings in '23 as it
relates to '24. Obviously, we have a fairly robust program up and running today. We're working
aggressively on those programs and beginning to implement those programs. As we cycle into
2024, we'll give you and the markets specific color on how to think about those cost savings as
we wrap into next year.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks. Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. So we are really pleased with our performance on Abrysvo. It has exceeded our
expectations. You first asked whether this is all about stocking, and I can say that it isn't. Of
course, there were stocking effects in the beginning, because this was a new vaccine, but we're
also closely tracking vaccination rates and uptake.
And what you see is that there is very fast uptake. That really benefited from the fact that this
was approved, and in market prior to the vaccination season actually happening, so was able to
ride off of the (Inaudible) of flu vaccinations, which you know are very high, September, October.
We have about a 70% co-administration rate. So the performance we're seeing on Abrysvo is
truly driven by vaccinations.
To your comment about market share, yes, we are seeing a similar market share to what you
have just said. That is because right now the retail setting is driving a lot of the vaccinations, but
don't forget that that's not where all vaccinations are taking place. We also have non-retail
settings such as health systems, doctors' offices. Those are also being engaged. And those
particular settings, Pfizer actually has a leading preference. They are smaller in proportion, but
still. So I think we have to look at all channels of the market.
Finally, I think that just from a momentum perspective, we expect things to continue. The
vaccinations really are happening throughout this time now. October, November, December are
big vaccination months. From where we are right now, RSV is only 5% of the entire vaccination
rate of the eligible population. So, I think that the conclusion is we're very early in the innings of
this launch.
We're doing better than we thought. But that where we are going to be, I think is a place where
there's tremendous opportunity for driving uptake in all the results, but also maternal, which, as
you know, we just got the approval for.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you next question, please.
Operator
Next we have `Carter Gould, Barclays with Barclays.
Q - `Carter Gould, Barclays `
Great. Good morning. Thank you for taking the questions. Maybe if you go back to oral data.
When we do get the Phase 2 data, what should our expectation be around communicating plans
for Phase 3, which I guess is just a quicker way of saying what's a reasonable expectation for how
quickly you could turn around the Phase 2 and start a Phase 3. And how much work Pfizer has
already done on that front.
And then maybe just coming out of ESMO, on the back of the EV 3 or 2 data and the response,
which Pfizer say that reaffirms their expectations or represent upside to their expectations, when
the deal was originally announced. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `No, thank you. Thank you very much. On the Danu, let me take that. So I can spare a little bit of
Mikael's time. We are expecting the data to show up before the end of the year. And, of course,
it's an important event, so we will have to make it publicly known when we know the data.
And, of course, when we are ready with our Phase 3, and we hope that the data are good, so
that we can move into Phase 3, and I hope that we are going to do it in an expedited manner,
because speed is of essence in this battle between competing molecules, but we will announce
our plans for Phase 3.
I know the interest is very high right now, but I want to be very prudent in not saying things
without the data. The data (Inaudible) of the data, we haven't seen it yet. Now, let me move to
Chris, so that we can discuss about the ESMO.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Yes. Thank you for raising 301. These were truly monumental data for the field of bladder cancer,
neuro endothelial cancer, and, as you pointed out, with overall survival and progressively survival
nearly doubled, moving median overall survival for this population now nearly towards three
years.
We expect the final data to be above, longer than 31.5 months. So this just reaffirms our beliefs
that antibody drug conjugates could become a standard of care across the treatment paradigm
for many, many different tumor types.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Next question.
Operator
Next, we have Akash Tewari with Jefferies.
Q - Analyst
Good morning. This is Ivy Alam for Akash. Thanks for taking our questions. Our question is also on
Danuglipron. So for the once daily modified release version, is there any possibility to do a
bridging study for q.d. Formulation? And also for Danu, I think as we've heard a lot of times on the
call that the trial is March as completed in October, I know you haven't seen the top line data.
So at this point, are we awaiting for data from this lower four week titration cohort. Also, would it
be fair to say that you will have to continue the program already if there were any clinically
significant serious safety issues with Danu? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. On the once-a-day reformulated Danu, we have initially tested a standard (Inaudible)
technology and could show that it worked very well with Danu.
And now to be able also to incorporate a more sophisticated technology, we work on a matrix
technology and all data suggests it's going to be a really intriguing alternative, because as you
know, in diabetes, oral drugs and obesity, you will over time end up with incorporating differentdrugs to prevent different downstream effects, and that's the beautiful of having this type of
novel technology that you have a potential in the future to go to fix those combination. And we
are really masters in developing sophisticated formulations. And we will have this available in
2024.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And there was a second part, I think. Or not, there was a second part of Danu.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Maybe I was probably (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, let's move then to the next question, please. Thank you Akash for your question.
Operator
Next, we have `Kerry Holford, Berenberg with Berenberg.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you. Two questions on vaccines for me, please. Frankly, on RFC in August, GSK filed a
lawsuit against Pfizer, alleging patent infringement. So I wonder if you could just talk to the next
steps here, perhaps a timeline that you anticipate for this. And should we think that this could
ultimately result in some form of royalty payment from Pfizer to GSK?
And then on Penbraya, how does the recent ACIP recommendation sit against your expectations
for the sales ramp and peak potential for this vaccine?
If the vaccine is effectively only used for dose two of three, does that significantly reduce the
commercial opportunity you had anticipated for the vaccine? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Doug, can you please answer the question about this legal situation with GSK?
A - `Doug Lankler, General Counsel, Executive Vice President `
Yes. So, it's very, very early stages with respect to the RSV litigation. We have patents. We feel
strongly about our own intellectual property, and it's certainly too early to say whether one party
or the other will be required to pay any royalties or otherwise, very early stages in that regard.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And Angela, about the Penbraya, how do you feel about it?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. We continue to feel confident about the peak sales. The reason is that right now, we have
the first set of recommendations, but ACIP has also told us that we'll have the opportunity again
to come back next year when we have additional data, which is when we'll have the opportunity
to look at the schedule for how quads and Bs are being --- the schedule that they're being
delivered today.And we'll have an opportunity again to take a look at the benefit of Penbraya in this population.
So, I think, I feel like it's great that we have an opportunity to get out now and to begin
vaccinating teenagers. We'll have a second bite at the apple, which will allow us to achieve our
peak sales.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have Andrew Baum with Citi.
Q - `Andrew Simon Baum, Citigroup Inc. `
Thank you. Couple of questions. Would you comment on your stake in RVT-3101, the TL1A,
pending the approval of the licensing of the asset to Roche? Will you hang on to it, or is that
subject to divestment?
And then second, a question for Chris. Just looking at the recent EV-302 data and with -- you
soon to have the Seagen portfolio. When you think about the combination of ADCs with Penbraya
or with a PD1, do you believe the efficacy that you're seeing is associated with that hedging, or do
you think it's true synergy through an immunologic mechanism of increased cell death. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir, you want to speak a little bit about the Roche acquisition of TL1?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. So thanks for the question, Andrew. I think we're very pleased with the outcome of the TL1A
program. When we created Televant, we did this as a R&D prioritization decision.
Just as a reminder, this was a Phase 2 program that required significant Phase 3 investment. And
so we held on to a 25% stake. We also had rights to royalties on U.S. sales, as well as the full ex-
U.S. and ex-Japan rights. And we did that all without any R&D spend.
So Roche's proposed acquisition of Televant will give us access to about $1.75 billion of pre-tax
cash, which is the translation of our stake. And we still retain all the other rights. So we're looking
forward to having Roche as a partner. We're looking forward to the investments that they're
going to make in advancing the clinical stage programs on TL1A and benefiting from the outcome
of those.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Chris, about the synergies, or not.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Development Officer, Oncology & Rare Disease `
Thanks, Andrew. That's a very good question. As you know, Seagen pioneered the MMIE or statin-
based payloads, and we see this potential synergy in combination with the PD-1 with (Inaudible)
and recently, as you've seen, with (Inaudible).
Although, Seagen does have the next generation of ADCs with TOP1 that will enter the clinic this
year, next year, we don't know yet if the TOP1s are going to show the similar type ofimmunogenicity as what appears to happen with the MMIE or a statin-based payloads. So I think
we're very confident that Seagen has both TOP1 as well as our statin-based payloads, in case
with TOP1s we do not see what appears to be correct type of service.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Chris. And let's go to the last question, please.
Operator
Our last question comes from `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets with the BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. So I have one on Danu and then a bigger
picture one. The point of clarification on Danuglipron, Mikael is the ultimate goal to develop to fix
those combination with say an SGLT2 or other anti-diabetes drugs. You kind of had mentioned
that in your commentary. And taking a big step back, how should we think about how you risk
adjusted your long-term revenue guidance?
Did you plan on updating this figure if you have clinical or regulatory successes or failures for
example with the approval of etrasimod? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael, can you please take the final question?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes, I mean the near-term goal is really look at the data, as we have said, both Albert and myself.
And pending review, of course, there's an option with a once a day download to move forward in
obesity and diabetes.
I think we just commented that the upside with oral drugs are many in this sector, and that's why it
has been such a big interest. And that includes fixed dose combination, which aren't available
with injectable. But we will keep it simple and clear, we'll review the data and take a decision
about potential in obesity and diabetes once a day downward. That's the near term.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. And also about your question, if we are going to change the $20 billions or
the $25 billions that we have declared. First of all, the $25 billion that we are going to acquire
revenue for 2030. According to our estimates, we have acquired the pending season acquisition,
$20 billion so far. If you see the analyst expectations for these acquisitions at the end of 2030 are
very, very close to what we have right now.
And I think this is trending very nice. When you see the internal launches that we are having from
our internal pipeline, which we declared at $20 billion, there is a gap between what we believe
and what the analysts believe. And this is where we are focusing our attention right now, it is very
early with the launches. Some of them are doing better than what we thought. Some of them are
doing worse than what we thought.
And if we realize that the totality for $20 billion is not any more what we think will be, of course,
we will update.A - Unidentified Speaker
But I think what is important to that is if you look at our business, our core business is performing
nicely. We continue to make traction. We have, obviously, a lot of launches that we've completed
and still several ahead of us. We're excited about what Seagen could potentially bring to the
company as we think about our focus now in oncology.
And then importantly, I think we've re-baselined, if you will, the COVID franchise. Think about
utilization back half of this year and cycling to next year. We will then take a step back and look at
what would be prudent as we think about the revenue in totality of this company as we cycle into
'24 and beyond. So I think you look forward to, as we begin going into 2024, those expectations
and laying those out specifically.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, thank you very much. So thank you. I would like just to say that if you walk away from today's
call with just one takeaway, should be that I think Pfizer's future remains bright. We have re-based
our COVID expectations and now I think it's very easy for everyone to be able to model what I
think will be stable COVID revenues going forward and with the recent -- particularly with the
recent amended Paxlovid supply agreement.
And of course, we are having very strong performance of our line and new products for you,
excluding COVID at 10% growth this quarter.
And that position was to be able to have a growing demand forward. So, I will now bring this call
to an end. Thank you for joining us and have a great rest of your day.
Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's Pfizer third quarter 2023 earnings
conference call. We appreciate your participation and you may disconnect at any time.