Q1 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr.Chris Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief
Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President & Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Chelsea. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Pfizer's first quarter earnings call. I'm
joined today by Dr.`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and CEO; Dave Denton, our CFO; and Dr.Mikael
Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development and Medical. Joining for the Q&A
session, we will also have `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business, Chief Commercial Officer and President, Global
Biopharmaceuticals Business; `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Business Innovation Officer; Dr.`William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President,
our Chief Development Officer; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel.Before we begin the call, I want to remind you of some of some logistical items. Materials for this
call and other earnings-related materials are on the Investor Relations section of pfizer.com.
Please see our forward-looking statements disclaimer on Slide 3. Additional information
regarding these statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our earnings
release in our SEC forms 10-K and 10-Q under Risk Factors, and forward-looking information and
factors that may affect future results. Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to
substantial risks and uncertainties, speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no
obligation to update or revise any of the statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Q1 was a solid foundational
quarter in what we expect to be an exciting year for Pfizer and patients. Our financial results were
as we anticipated. Our non-COVID revenues grew 5% operationally compared with the year-ago
quarter, while overall revenues declined 26% operationally, primarily due to a previously
communicated and expected decline in Comirnaty revenues. Even with Comirnaty's decline, our
COVID franchises remained significant contributors to the business, with a combined $7.1 billion in
revenues during the quarter.
This growth was driven primarily by recently acquired products, Nurtec for migraine and Oxbryta
for sickle cell disease, our anti-infective Sulperazon, Eliquis in the non-valvular atrial fibrillation
indication in the U.S., and our Vyndaqel family of products for the treatment of transthyretin
amyloid cardiomyopathy.
We also continue to be proud of our patient impact. During the first quarter, more than 250
million patients were treated with our medicines and vaccines. With this solid start to the year, we
remain on track to grow our non-COVID revenues by 7% to 9% operationally in 2023. That's
because the majority of our potential near-term product launches, as you can see mapped out on
this slide, are expected to occur in the second half of the year, following regulatory approvals
where not yet secured. As such, we expect our non-COVID revenues to grow at a faster rate in
the second half of the year than in the first.
Overall, we are in the midst of an 18-month period in which we expect to launch up to 19 potential
new products and indications. Over the first four months of the year, we have made excellent
progress towards this goal with the approval of Zavzpret, and expanded indication for Cibinqo to
include adolescents, and last week's approval of Prevnar 20 for pediatric use, all in the U.S. We
also have secured regulatory filing acceptances for elranatamab, for Braftovi and Mektovi for non-
small cell lung cancer, and for our RSV maternal vaccine candidate which, if approved, would be
the first vaccine for administration to pregnant individuals to help protect against the
complications of RSV disease in infants from birth through six months.
In addition, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has granted priority review, and the European
Medicines Agency has accepted our MAA filing for review of Talzenna for use in for use in
combination with Xtandi for patients with newly diagnosed metastatic castration-resistant
prostate cancer based on the TALAPRO-2 results.
Regarding our COVID-19 franchise, we continue to expect 2023 to be a transition year as the
virus continues to mutate, and to move from advanced purchases under government contracts to
more transitional supply arrangements in the commercial model for both Comirnaty and Paxlovid
in the U.S. As previously discussed, in 2023 and 2024, we expect vaccine utilization to declinesee an increase in COVID-19 vaccination rates, assuming the successful development and
approval of various COVID combination vaccines. Outside the U.S., we expect these general
trends to be similar with some variations from country to country.
Regarding Paxlovid, we continue to expect the government inventory that was built around the
world last year to be absorbed by the end of this year. We then expect that in years '24 and
beyond, the courses sold and courses used will more closely align. With its robust efficacy,
consistent safety profile and potential to help mitigate the burden of COVID-19 on patients and
their families, health system and society, Paxlovid is proving to be an important and durable
complementary to vaccination strategies for the estimated 40% of the global adult population at
high-risk for progressing to severe disease.
Now, let's take a look at Pfizer's next potential moonshot, the battle against cancer. Oncology
remains a core therapeutic area for Pfizer, and we believe the proposed acquisition of Seagen
will enhance our position in this important space. Integration planning is already underway, and we
continue to expect the deal to close in late 2023 or early 2024, subject to the satisfaction of
customary closing conditions.
By combining Seagen's category-leading antibody-drug conjugate technology with Pfizer's scale,
expertise and capabilities, we believe we can accelerate potential breakthroughs in cancer
medicines and introduce new solutions to patients around the world. The potential combined
commercial infrastructure for Pfizer and Seagen would be 3x the size of that of Seagen alone in
the U.S., and 4x or 5x larger globally. As a result, we believe acquiring Seagen could contribute
more than $10 billion in 2030 risk-adjusted revenues with potential significant growth beyond
2030. Even with the Seagen deal, given the strength of our balance sheet and cash flows, we
continue to have the flexibility to take additional actions to create shareholder value. Dave will
provide more details on this during his presentation.
One of the key areas of focus for Pfizer in 2023 is continuing to build trust, which is a key asset
for every biopharmaceutical company. Since the beginning of the year, we have received two
accolades that demonstrate we are doing just that. In February, Pfizer was named to the top 10 of
Fortune's most Admired Companies List for the second year in a row. And in March, Ethisphere
recognized Pfizer as one of the world's most ethical companies, also for the second year in a row.
At Pfizer, trust is everything. It gives us our license to operate, allows us to attract the best talent,
and enables us to deliver breakthroughs that change patients' lives.
With that, I will turn it over to Dave. After Dave, Mikael will provide an update on R&D pipeline.
Dave?
`David Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert. And good morning, everyone. I want to begin with Pfizer's capital allocation
strategy before we dive into additional commentary about our quarterly performance, and
importantly, our outlook for the remainder of 2023.
As you know, our strategy includes three main pillars, reinvesting in our business, growing and
paying dividends and repurchasing our shares. In the first three months of 2023, we have
invested $2.5 billion in internal R&D and returned $2.3 billion to shareholders via our quarterly
dividend; and importantly, allocated approximately $43 billion for the proposed Seagen
acquisition.
Over the last few years, we have reinvested heavily into our business to drive long-term growth
and enhance long-term shareholder value. We have invested in Pfizer's own science whileacquiring the best external science to supplement our pipeline. Since 2022, we've invested
approximately $70 billion, including Seagen, in business development.
In addition, we have continued to grow our dividend. For the past 14 years we have raised our
dividend annually. Since 2010, our quarterly cash dividend grew from $0.16 a share to $0.41 a
share in 2023. Looking ahead, as we exit this unprecedented period of anticipated launches, we
would expect to achieve operating margin improvement over time.
As we begin to de-lever our capital structure after the closing of the Seagen transaction, we
expect to return to a more balanced capital allocation mix between our three pillars. While we will
continue to invest in our business, we do expect more balance between that priority and
returning value to our shareholders via increased dividends and value-enhancing share
repurchases. Our capital allocation strategy is squarely focused on driving shareholder value,
while at the same time remaining committed to a high investment grade Tier-1 commercial paper
rating.
Now turning to the quarter. As Albert said, our results were in line with our expectations, albeit
slightly better than consensus. As expected, overall revenues declined 26% operationally,
primarily driven by the anticipated decline in Comirnaty, which was partially offset by strong
Paxlovid sales. I want to point out that our COVID-19 products produced $7.1 billion in revenues in
the first quarter alone. Our non-COVID operational revenues growth was solid at 5% year-over-
year, primarily driving this growth was the inclusion of Nurtec ODT and Oxbryta, and an increase
in Sulperazon revenues in China. Revenues for Eliquis in the U.S. and the Vyndaqel family globally
also contributed to this growth.
Now, I want to remind you of the seasonality of some of our products. In the first quarter, Nurtec
ODT and Oxbryta typically have lower sales quarter-on-quarter due to annual copay reset
dynamics, with higher sales anticipated in the latter quarters. Most importantly, both products
continue to experience strong growth in demand. Sulperazon revenues increased more than
$100 million year-over-year due to higher demand in China during the quarter, which we do not
expect to be sustained going forward. The demand was due to increased bacterial infection from
patients being hospitalized for COVID. To help ensure the success of the expected launches of a
large number of new and acquired products and indications, we've increased our investments in
SI&A. These investments are squarely focused on Pfizer's 2025 to 2030 growth aspirations.
Now, moving to the bottom line, reported diluted earnings per share this quarter declined by
29% to $0.97 a share, while adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.23 declined 20% on an
operational basis during the quarter. Once again, this quarter, foreign exchange movement
significantly impacted our results, reducing first quarter revenues by $730 million, or 3%, and
adjusted diluted earnings per share by $0.07, or 4%, compared to LY.
Now, turning to the full year financial outlook for the company. Our full year 2023 guidance
remains unchanged. On a total company basis, we continue to expect revenues of $67 billion to
$71 billion, reflecting an operational decline of 31% at the midpoint. With 5% operational growth in
our non-COVID revenues this quarter, we are on track to achieve our non-COVID revenue
guidance of 7% to 9% operational growth for the full year. Given that a large number of launches
are expected to occur in the third and fourth quarter of '23, we anticipate our quarterly revenues
will not be linear this year, and that our non-COVID revenues will grow more quickly in the back
half of this year versus the first half first half of '23.
In terms of our COVID products, Comirnaty and Paxlovid, we expect sales to trend more
seasonally this year. Given these dynamics, we expect significantly lower sales contributions fromour COVID products in the second quarter versus the first quarter. In fact, given the anticipated
timing of approvals for a fall vaccine with strain change, we would expect more substantial
vaccine deliveries to start in September, which is late in the U.S. third quarter and the beginning of
our international fourth quarter. With respect to Paxlovid, we continue to expect '23 to be a
transitional year as we anticipate shifting to a commercial market in the second half of this year.
We are reaffirming our adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance range of $3.25 to $3.45 per
share. On a full-year basis, we expect that foreign exchange will have an unfavorable impact
compared with full year 2022 of approximately $0.13 on adjusted diluted earnings per share. We
are also reaffirming the remaining components of our full year 2023 guidance, which you can find
in the appendix of the Q1 '23 earnings presentation.
So in closing, this is an exciting period for Pfizer, as we continue to invest to drive long-term
growth, and importantly, enhance long-term shareholder value.
With that, now, let me turn it over to Mikael.
`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you, Dave. Today, I'd like to start off with one of the four pillars of our oncology portfolio,
which are breast, urogenital, blood cancers, and precision medicine. Within urogenital, prostate
cancer is an area in which we have strong momentum. Recent positive study results further
strengthen our franchise, building upon the global standard of care set by Xtandi and
underscoring our long-standing commitment to the pursuit of breakthroughs that define new
standards of care in prostate cancer.
I'll highlight data from two Phase 3 studies, EMBARK and TALAPRO-2 as well as early but
promising signals from our EZH2 inhibitor, each of which has the potential to reach broader
patient population across the treatment continuum in prostate cancer. Final analysis from
TALAPRO-2 evaluating our potential blockbuster PARP inhibitor, Talzenna, in combination with
Xtandi,, were presented at ASCO GU. Results showed significant and clinically meaningful
improvement across the all-comer population in radiographic progression free survival, or rPFS in
men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, with or without homologous
recombination repair or HRR gene mutation.
There was a 37% reduction in risk of disease progression. Median rPFS in patients treated with
Talzenna and Xtandi was not reached at the time of analysis versus 21.9 months for placebo plus
Xtandi. A trend in overall survival favoring Talzenna plus Xtandi was also observed, though these
data are immature. The final OS data will be reported once the predefined number of survival
events has been reached.
Treatment with Talzenna and Xtandi resulted in statistically significant improvement in overall
response rates, which suggests the potential cooperative effect between the two treatments.
The U.S. FDA has granted priority review for our sNDA for Talzenna in combo with Xtandi for
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer with a decision expected in '23. The ongoing
TALAPRO-3 study, if successful, may further expand the reach of this potential blockbuster into
the HRR-deficient metastatic castration-sensitive population.
We recently presented data from our Phase 3 EMBARK study, evaluating Xtandi plus Leuprolide in
men with non-metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer with high-risk biochemical recurrence
at the American Urological Association's 23rd Annual Meeting. The study met its primary endpoint
with statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in metastasis-free survival with a
58% reduction in risk for radiographic progression or death. Key secondary endpoints were met,including time to PSA progression. These results suggest Xtandi, the only novel hormone therapy
approved for three disease states of prostate cancer in the U.S., has the potential, if approved,
to expand to patients in the hormone-sensitive or castration-sensitive setting for the first time.
Next, I'd like to share early data from one of our next-wave candidates, a potential first-in-class
and best-in-class EZH2 inhibitor, which we shorthand as '1497. EZH2 is an epigenetic transcriptional
repressor that's frequently overexpressed in prostate cancer. We believe that inhibition of EZH2
may provide synergistic effects in combination with Xtandi, with a potential to address unmet
needs of patients with androgen-sensitive and resistant disease. Here are data from our ongoing
Phase 1/2 study, evaluating '1497 in second line mCRPC patients with prior abiraterone and/or
Xtandi, and up to one line of chemo. On the left are updated data from a Phase 1 dose escalation
study shared at ESMO last year.
These encouraging results show durable anti-tumor activity in both XTANDI-naive and
experienced patients, with all XTANDI-naive patients having received prior abiraterone.
Importantly, this suggests that the addition of our EZH2 inhibitor has the potential to sensitize
XTANDI-resistant tumors, which is an increasing clinical unmet need. The early rPFS data are also
highly encouraging, reaching 8.7 months in XTANDI-experience and 17.1 months in XTANDI-naive,
both of which are notably longer than historical controls.
For example, in the control arm of the CARD study, rPFS for XTANDI alone was only 4.8 months in
XTANDI-naive patients. And although cross-trial comparison cannot be made, these results in
combination with emerging objective response rate and PSA50 response are supportive of the
contribution of our EZH2 inhibitor candidate in driving these responses. From a safety
perspective, the combination was generally well-tolerated with mostly Grade 1 and 2 events. The
randomized Phase 2 study in second line mCRPC is ongoing with data expected early '24.
Now, we turn to the potential for near-term growth across our respiratory vaccine franchise.
Prevnar 20 or our 20-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine is now approved for children aged
six weeks through 17 years. We are confident in our ability to maintain leadership in the
pneumococcal vaccine space with Prevnar 20, which offers the broadest serotype coverage of
any pediatric pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, helping to protect against the 20 serotypes in the
vaccine.
We have strong momentum with our RSV vaccine candidates, having received a positive VRBPAC
Committee vote, supporting potential approval to help combat RSV in older adults and PDUFA
dates for our older adults and maternal indications in quick successions in the coming months.
And just last month, New England Journal of Medicine published results from the two positive
Phase 3 studies. Emerging data from the middle of the second RSV season in the Northern
Hemisphere in the Phase 3 older adult study support meaningful durable vaccine efficacy. We will
share the data once complete.
In the coming months, we plan to start the Phase 3 study of the RSV vaccine candidate in 18 to
60-year-olds at high risk for RSV, and in immunocompromised adults 18, and over and a Phase 1
study in 2 to 18-year-old at high risk, with a potential to expand broadly the reach of our vaccine
candidate, both to those aged 18 to 60 with high-risk condition, as well as to pediatrics and
adolescents. Our RSV-Flu co-administration study met its primary endpoint, demonstrating non-
inferiority for all four flu strains and the RSV A and B strains. This suggests the RSV vaccine
candidate, if approved, could be co-administered with flu vaccinations and add an important
component of seasonal protection against respiratory pathogens.Finally, the FDA recently updated the EUA for our Omicron BA.4/BA.5 bivalent COVID-19 vaccine
to enable those at higher risk of severe COVID-19 illness, including the elderly and the
immunocompromised, to partner with their healthcare providers to be proactive in helping
protect themselves against COVID-19. We anticipate another update from FDA in June that will
provide guidance on COVID-19 vaccine strains and vaccination timing for the 2023 fall and winter
season.
Beyond vaccines, antivirals are an important component of our strategy in respiratory viruses.
Here we share data for the first time from our second-gen oral COVID-19 antiviral candidate, a
potent and selective SARS-CoV-2 Mpro inhibitor that is currently in Phase 1. We designed this
candidate to achieve clinical exposures that would have similar anti-viral activity to Paxlovid, but
without the need for ritonavir boosting and with the potential for reduced drug interactions. Early
results from Phase 1 dose escalation are encouraging, with no dose-limiting safety or tolerability
findings. Dosing achieved concentrations many-fold over in vitro EC90 and is therefore expected
to have similar antiviral activity to Paxlovid.
On the right are preliminary results from a Phase 1 pharmacokinetic study of midazolam drug
interaction, which is a well-known standard for indicating CYP3A4-mediated drug-drug interaction.
These data show there is a lack of such drug-drug interaction, suggesting there may be no
related restriction of co-dosing with drugs metabolized by CYP enzymes. Based on these
encouraging data, we're planning to advance to Phase 2 dose-ranging study in the first half of this
year.
In addition to the assets I spoke about today, we continue to make progress on the pipeline with
more than 25 milestones recently achieved or anticipated through the first half of '24. As
examples, in inflammation and immunology, the FDA has approved our sNDA for Cibinqo,
enabling a label expansion for adolescents with moderate to severe dermatitis. In internal
medicine, Zavzpret, the migraine nasal spray has received FDA approval, expanding our migraine
portfolio. Recently, the FDA Advisory Committee voted in support of Paxlovid's favorable benefit-
risk profile, with a soon PDUFA date in May.
In closing, we are very excited about the potentially transformative catalysts expressed across
the pipeline as we work with continued urgency to bring breakthroughs to patients. Thank you.
Let me turn it over to Chris to start Q&A.
`Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President & Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. All right. Chelsea, please queue up the list for Q&A. We have at least 30
minutes for Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your
line is open. Umer, your line is open.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys. Apologies. Thanks for taking my question. I have two here, if I may. First, your
expectations on the cisplatin eligibles in the EV-302 trial, especially because it's so significant tothe acquisition you're going down the track on. And then secondly, based on my analysis of the --
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Umer, can you repeat the question? I'm not sure we understood it.
A - `Christopher Stevo, Senior Vice President & Chief Investor Relations Officer `
PADCEV.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI `
Sure. On the Seagen trial on PADCEV, EV-302, I know there's been a huge emphasis on cohort K,
which is cisplatin ineligibles. My question is, this ongoing trial also has cisplatin eligibles, which is
two-thirds of the target population, what's your expectation there? Because it was -- I felt like it
was not a coincidence Seagen never showed any data disclosure from the eligibles, part A.
And secondly, for the guidance for the full year, I noticed there's perhaps $1 billion or so worth of
contribution from new launches. And I'm just trying to make sense of that in light of the fact that
these are going to be launches sort of in fall of this year. I realize it's important to reflect RSV,
elranatamab, but is it reasonable to expect $1 billion or so, so early into the launch from those?
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you very much. Angela, why don't you take the second question about the guidance,
about the $1 billion estimated sales in the last quarter?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. So from a launch perspective, I think the two big ones to look out for this year are Prevnar
20 peds and RSV adult. And as you know, it goes through the typical through the typical ACIP
process or recommendation, and then launches can really only happen or commercialization after
the publication of the MMWR.
So if you consider all of that, that puts us into fourth quarter, which is when Prevnar 20 peds, as
well as when RSV older adult will actually be commercialized and revenue being generated. And
so, yes, we are anticipating that there's going to be a big bolus of revenue. Because, first of all, if
you think about Prevnar 20 peds, that is going to be a conversion from Prevnar 13 peds, and
Premarin 13 today has a significant market share, right, in the pediatric pneumococcal, it has 80%
market share. So we're going to be converting those, the accounts, the physicians, the inventory,
all of that from 13 over to 20. And so if you look at, I guess a good analog for that would be our
Prevnar 20 adult launch, which was the conversion of the Prevnar 13 adult launch. And there, it
went really well. Today, we have, what, over 95% market share.
And then, of course, the second one is the RSV adult. And there, it plugs into an already
established commercial infrastructure that we've built around COVID, around Prevnar -- around
the Prevnar franchise, the adult franchise. It comes at a great time during the fall and the winter
when vaccinations for season -- for respiratory vaccines actually increases. So there's a lot of
reasons to believe why that fourth quarter is going to be a really big quarter for both Prevnar
peds as well as RSV adult.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Angela. On the question about the Seagen asset, although we should be very careful
because we can't comment on that, but maybe you can make, William, a quick comment,
generally speaking.
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Sure. I would say we're just very excited about the recent approval in the first line cisplatin-
ineligible population which Seagen just got, which is about 89,000 patients in the U.S. And we're
excited to see additional data coming in the first line cisplatin-eligible EV-302 study which, as you
know, is PADCEV plus pembro versus platinum gemcitabine. We can't comment any further,
because it's -- as that's a Seagen study. And if that's positive, that would increase the eligible
population by another 10,000 to 12,000.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. It's doubling the population that excites us. But of course, we can't comment on the
Seagen's progress. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from Evan Seigerman with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Evan, your line is open.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Chelsea, why don't we go to the next one?
Operator
I think we'll move to the next question, `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Keith Bachman, BMO Capital Markets `
Okay.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Sorry. Evan, go ahead.
Operator
Go ahead, Evan.
Q - `Keith Bachman, BMO Capital Markets `
Perfect. Thanks for taking our call. This is Keith on for Evan. Maybe just shifting to the M&A
execution. Thinking about your recent acquisitions with Nurtec and Oxbryta, you've done a great
job describing the plans to add value, drive commercial and clinical synergies. We're seeing the
outcomes on our end, could you comment on how this is going from your end? And then could
you talk about specifics for operationalizing the same for Seagen integration and how this would
differ from recent examples? That would be great. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Again, Angela, back to you.A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. So, we are incredibly proud of the work that we've done on Nurtec since the acquisition. As
you know in July of 2020 -- of 2022, we had already begun a co-promote with Biohaven to
ensure that we were co-promoting the product early, and I think that has really paid off.
If you really look at what has happened from just leading indicators as well as actuals, today
Nurtec is the leading product in the oral CGRP class with over 47.5% market share. It is also the
leading product when it comes to new-to-brand prescription share at a high of 46%. It also has
the highest number of prescribers at over 110,000 prescribers, and 80% of new CGRP
prescribers choose Nurtec. So, I think we've demonstrated in the time that we've had it, that we
are able to drive performance and drive excellent education and awareness of the product. And
we're seeing consistent great metrics as it pertains to Nurtec.
And of course, the opportunity is huge, right, because we have zavegepant launching later this
year. We also know that as a whole there are over 1 billion migraine sufferers and only 18% of
them are using CGRPs today. So, we have a great opportunity to expand the class of CGRPs, but
specifically Nurtec.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. Next call, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. If I may ask one -- two questions here. So, on European
negotiation, because there was some news this week, just how much can you comment on that?
And the real question there is that, I know when you provided guidance in the beginning of the
year, you anticipated some of that. But so far, as the negotiations (inaudible) do you see any risk
to the guidance as the negotiations get finalized in that?
And the other question I have is more about the -- your demand chart for Paxlovid and
vaccinations, both. It seems like you are assuming both Paxlovid and vaccination utilization going
up in 2024-plus timeframe. Would it be both demand going -- demands going up or you think it
would be either/or, as vaccinations come down, probably the demand for Paxlovid will go up?
How do -- how should we think about that? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Maybe I can answer those questions. So the EU negotiations, they are still ongoing, so
we can comment on that. Yes, we had included part of -- we had included our estimation of how
these negotiations will end up in our guidance, and still we are not close. So I can't make any
comment on that. It wouldn't be appropriate as the discussions are still ongoing.
As regards the demand for Paxlovid or for vaccines, as we had said, we expect that the demand
for vaccines will go down. We gave the estimations that it will go down to approximately 24% of
people in the U.S. and relevant numbers, different country by country, as underlying demand for
boosters. Things, I think, are progressing towards that goal. We will have to see as most of this
will happen in the last -- after summer when it is the traditional period that flu is also, vaccinationsDemand for Paxlovid right now is following very, very accurately the infection rates. So, we
monitor it on a weekly basis and really it is growing, when we have almost equal percentage of
infections is equal percentage of increase for Paxlovid. And so, we expect that will continue going
like that. Because we have less compliance with the vaccination recommendations across the
world, as people are tired with COVID, and we expect that fewer people, as I said, this year will
get the vaccine compared to last year.
So, this means that the immune protection of the population will go down. As a result, we expect
that we'll have more infections and that will drive more use of Paxlovid. But of course, that's what
our immunological models are telling us. We'll have to see what eventually will happen in the real
life.
Thank you for your question. May we go to the next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Robyn Karnauskas, Truist Securities with Truist Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Robyn Karnauskas, Truist Securities `
Hi, thanks for taking the question. Just two big picture ones. Just first on, for your vaccine
franchise, as we think about the competitive landscape, a couple of things. What do you think is
going to be the most important differentiation for you versus the competition that will drive the
most uptake as people have different options? And have you developed any new LNP technology
that might reduce the biggest pushback with the vaccines, as people feel sick still when they get
them for some of your products? And then, lastly, just big picture also --
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Which product? We couldn't hear which product you spoke about.
Q - `Robyn Karnauskas, Truist Securities `
Oh, I was just talking about the vaccine franchise for RSV and flu and COVID, thinking big picture,
how you are differentiated. And what do you think is going to be key, because you are all
competing to determine who is going to be the winner.
And the second question is there is the big proposal out of Europe for new legislation for drugs.
And since you are launching all these new products in Europe, just wanted to get your thoughts
on whether or not you think that legislation may hold or what kind of impact that might have.
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And maybe I can give a very general answer, and then if Angela wants to chime in,
please. On the COVID, we are the winners right now, already, we have the big market share and
we plan to maintain that. So I think we are there. When it comes to RSV, we are the only ones, but
we have both and -- or we have positive data on both, on adults and on maternal. And we have
already approval for the adults and then we are expecting approval for the maternal. So that the
strength of our data with efficacy and safety profile that we think is differentiated will provide us
with what we hope also to be the winners in that one.
The flu on mRNA technology, still the jury is out. We are very optimistic with the totality of the data
that we are having from our flu vaccine and we will wait to see, of course, how that will continue.And then, of course, the winners will be also those that will be able to build from the base of all
of that. So the fact that we have all three of them or we have a good chance to have all three of
them, if the studies are successful and if the products are approved, of course, also provides a
good differentiation. In addition to all of that, I think the trust to the Pfizer brand name, which has
been very, very strong, I think, also plays a key differentiator.
Now, as regards the EU legislation that we have just seen in the recent days, we are noticing the
positive things of EU trying to be more competitive in attracting research and creating a
regulatory framework for more rapid approvals. Clearly, we are also concerned at the same time
with provisions that would like to reduce the exclusivity of data and other provisions. So, we hope
that there will be an open dialogue with the EU so that we can create a framework that really will
enhance innovation.
Angela, anything that you want to add to all of that?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Maybe just to add to your question specifically about the adult portfolio, I really do believe that
this plays into our sweet spot. Through the last several years, both from the Prevnar franchise for
vaccinating adults, through our work in COVID, we've learned that the clinical profile is one thing,
but you really need reliable supply, you need a commercial infrastructure, you need a great ability
to educate, raise awareness and drive people to vaccination. And I think on all of those counts
Pfizer is a winner. And so, we look forward to having a growing and a very robust respiratory
portfolio that really leverages off of this incredible commercial machinery.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald, L.P. with Cantor. Your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald, L.P. `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. So I want to ask you about margin improvement, you talked
about that in your opening remarks. I'm curious when we might start to see that? And does that
include the Seagen acquisition in your comments? And second question I had for you is, what are
some of the key steps that you've taken already to transition Comirnaty and Paxlovid to the
commercial markets? And when will how the season will shape up? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Louise. Dave, would you want to take the margin improvements, and then
Angela, the Comirnaty and Paxlovid?
A - `David Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes, thank you for your question. It is our expectation that as we integrate Seagen in either late
'23 or '24, early '24, we will begin to see margin improvement, and that will happen as we
continue to improve our performance from a top line perspective. At the same time, we're going
to be very efficient and really work to minimize our SI&A investments going forward. So I think,
you should start to see that post the integration and the closing of the Seagen transaction.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David. And then, Angela, how are we preparing to transition commercial Comirnaty?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
So, Louise, as you know, both of these products, both Comirnaty and Paxlovid are products that
are very familiar to us. They fit very well in the existing portfolio of products that we have. So, the
ability for us to move from an EUA into a full launch or into -- so it's business as usual for us, right?
So the typical things that we would always do, which is awareness building with physicians and
with patients, that has begun and is well underway. The things that you would do as it regards
your discussions with payers to demonstrate value and to create your value arguments for
reimbursement and access, that has begun. We have done a tremendous amount of work as it
pertains to retailers, and making sure that we have our distribution and our supply chain well-oiled
and the ability to be able to supply and to vaccinate or administer these products at both at a
physical site like a retailer, or even in the case of Paxlovid getting telehealth and sort of remote
health capabilities set up.
So all of these capabilities, many of them, in fact, have been underway throughout the entire time
of the pandemic. So, I think we're in a very, very good position to seamlessly transition into
commercialization.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Akash Tewari, Jefferies Inc. with Jefferies. Your line is open.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Jefferies Inc. `
Hey. Thanks so much. Can you talk about your next-gen CDK4 program? You'll have first-in-human
data at ASCO, why does your team believe just hitting CDK4 allows you to improve on Ibrance's
efficacy? And are there any plans to combine that drug with the Arvinas SERD, given the DDI
that's been shown up with Ibrance?
And then, on your next-gen Paxlovid program, can you confirm that it can achieve multiple-fold
over the EC90 when adjusted for plasma protein binding? And is that -- for timelines on that
product, is the earliest possible commercial entry 2026, or is there a path for expedited
approval? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Mikael, I think both questions can go to you.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you. We are very excited about the next-gen CDK4 inhibitor. It's looking really good in two
aspects. You can dose and get activity off the patient's PAL CDK4/6, because you dose with
higher inhibition of this mechanism and you have a better tolerability with no -- with much less
neutropenia, less risk for infections.We expect mid-year to report out, and we have an aspirational target to start Phase 3 late this
year, possibly earlier. At the same time, as you asked, we are now running combination studies
CDK4 with CED-6, [ph] another inhibitor that has a nice single agent activity and seem to
combine well. We have a second combination with CDK2 and we think this would allow us next
year to pick one or two combinations to advance up the lines with more potent treatment than
what's available today. Similarly, we're looking at combination with 471, as you alluded to, in order
to benefit from the Arvinas collaboration.
Next-gen Paxlovid, yes, as alluded to in my introductory remarks, we have many-fold above EC90.
And as you know, for Paxlovid, what's unique with that drug that the many-fold exposure above
EC90 has this far led to no detectable meaningful emergence of mutations, which is always what
you fear in antiviral single agent therapy. And this has been unique for Paxlovid versus other
agents that have been used so far, whether antibodies or antivirals. And this is exactly the profile
for the next gen, but without DDIs that allow us to improve and also to move into other
supplementary segments.
We're planning soon to start a Phase 2 and pending data, possibly move quickly to Phase 3. And
of course, we would like to see that agent introduce as soon as possible. I think we can hope to
move swiftly, pending the event rates of COVID that will happen in the fall and further on that
influence enrollment. So, I think you said '26 and I would certainly hope we'll be ahead of that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Thanks so much for taking the questions. Maybe two for me, because I'm not sure you'll be
able to answer one of them. I guess, any -- would love your latest thoughts on your seasonal flu
mRNA vaccine, just in light of some of the Moderna data on the B antigen side. Just how should
we think about your profile there?
And then, there's been some focus on this Adcetris versus Opdivo first-line Hodgkin's lymphoma
data that's going to be presented at ASCO. Just wondering if you can offer your high level
perspective on how you see that frontline landscape evolving. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Mikael, why don't you take the flu question, and then the oncology question will go to
William.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
We are very pleased with what we see so far, the totality date of our flu mRNA. As you know, we
have reported out very high antibody titers to A, similar or possibly lower to the B antigens versus
standard flu vaccines. But in contrast to standard flu vaccines, we have very nice T-cell activity.
And I think we are the only mRNA platform that has those CD4 and CD8 T-cells of significance.
We do think that could offer a unique profile for flu. And the tolerability with our dose with our
dose is very encouraging. So the trial is in the last leg for a readout. Hopefully, we'll be able laterthis fall to share an update. And we are very encouraged and we are, in parallel, at least investing
in combination opportunities with this and COVID and RSV in various combination, as Albert
earlier alluded to.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. And William, on the oncology front, how do you feel about it?
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Sure. Again, this is a molecule for Seagen, Adcetris, which is a CD30 ADC. It's already been
approved in Hodgkin's lymphoma post-transplant and then in previously untreated Hodgkin's
lymphoma now with chemotherapy, doxorubicin, vinblastine and dacarbazine. And it's already --
we anticipate actually later this year that the label will be updated for overall survival.
Now the data you're talking about is from the SWOG S1826 study with nivo AVD versus Adcetris
AVD. And I believe they'll be presenting PFS data. But this is a curable disease, and we believe
that the OS update with the Adcetris label will show that Adcetris is the favored product at this
time.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Wilbur. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Colin Bristow, UBS with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Colin Bristow, UBS `
Hey, good morning, and thanks for taking the questions. Maybe first on danuglipron and the
upcoming data, could you just walk us through what the key efficacy and safety thresholds you're
looking to meet to move this forward? And sort of with regards to those thresholds, how you
think about them in light of the fact this is BID dosing, and how does that potentially impact the
sort of commercial opportunity?
And then just second, a quick one on your DMD Phase 3 CIFFREO trial. You previously guided to
completion of recruitment in April of this year, just could you give us a quick update here, and
then how you view the opportunity and positioning in light of the fact that there's a potential
competitor approval at the end of this month. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. We are very excited about our two oral GLP, the 1532 and danuglipron, 1532 called
lotiglipron. And we're looking for a differentiated profile that will be a combination of rapid onset,
high control of HbA1C, bringing it down, and body weight loss at various doses to be very
competitive and a more easily titrable drug that can optimize a preferred profile versus injectable
when it comes to nausea and other well-known effects. So, we look forward very much to data
maybe later this year or possibly early next year and cherry pick the winner here.You also asked about DMD. Well, if there is approval, it is based just on the surrogate markers.
And in this area I think it's very important to report out data when it comes to real patient benefit.
And we expect possibly already late this year, alternatively next year, to have data from the first
randomized study that, if positive, could show favorable benefit for patients doing better
according to the North Star scale. So, we feel really positive about our own DMD program and I
think the entry will be competitive, with the real data that patients need.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America `
Hey, guys. Good morning. Thanks so much for the question. I just have two. The first, Angela, on
the I&I landscape, can you talk about your expectations for category growth, just looking at this
year and next,, just in light of the Humira and STELARA biosimilar to come? I'm asking just in the
context for the etrasimod launch as well as Cibinqo.
And then, Albert, I know this question has been asked, but a different way though. I know you
expect this year for COVID to be a down year, but when you think about your scorecard outside
the U.S. with payers, as you've transitioned to commercial, what's been the initial feedback from a
-- sort of, from a price and volume perspective? Obviously, that's key to your assumptions in
2024 and beyond. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me answer the COVID question and then Angela will answer the I&I landscape. We expect to
have commercialization in the U.S. I think likely the U.S. government will stop purchasing outside
the normal standards products. We do not expect that to be the case in most of the countries
internationally. We think that most of the countries will continue having governmental purchases.
And most of them we have already long-term contracts, so I don't think there will be much
fluctuation over there in the price, given the longevity of the products. When the products -- the
contracts expire, of course, prices also will be adjusted.
Now, let's move to the question about I&I. And Angela, please.
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. Well, I think to answer that question, you really have to look at each product and the specific
disease that they're in. So let's start with etrasimod which is UC. There we believe that we have
an advantage from a clinical profile perspective. We believe that we have the best-in-class S1P
inhibitor. But there are also other great benefits such as the fact that it can be used steroid-free,
that we have convenient dosing. We also offer an oral option in a world that is very prevalent with
injectables. And even with all of that that's out there, we still have 50% of people that have not
achieved remission.
So, I think that the unmet need in UC is clear. And for us in particular, given the profile of
etrasimod, what we think is the greatest opportunity for us is in earlier lines of treatment, where
there has not been as much advancement, right? There's a lot of anti-TNFs, there's a lot of
biosimilars, there's JAK, there's other mechanisms. But in earlier lines of treatment there really isnot enough. And so, that's where we think we have an opportunity to meet an underserved need
today. And that's where we're going to be positioning etrasimod.
Ritle is a different story. When you look at that particular indication for alopecia, that is really an
underdeveloped market. There's 3 million people today. There are no great options for adults,
and there are absolutely no options for adolescents and children. And so the profile that we have
with ritlecitinib is a -- it's the best-in-class JAK. It's the best JAK. And I think that we're going to
compete well, in addition to the fact that we're going to be the only JAK compared to baricitinib
that has an indication for adolescents. So, I think in this regard, because it's a new disease or a
highly undeserved disease. I think education and awareness, education at the level of the
prescriber, the patient, but also with the payers is going to be key to our ability to access this
market.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And of course, (inaudible) is not a JAK, right? Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse `
Hi guys. 'Morning, `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. I have two, if I can. So first one, a few days ago
you saw the FDA Advisory Committee vote on Lynparza's PROpel trial. In that, the committee
voted against the approval in all-comers. So for Talzenna and the TALAPRO-2, what's your
expectations for your label here, given the strength of your data? And could that affect your $1
billion peak sales number that you gave in December?
And then for the RSV flu co-administration study, what flu vaccine did you did you test that with? Is
that the high dose or the low dose? And if it's the low dose, could you be approved for use with
the high dose, which is more relevant today? Thanks very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. William, would you like to take the talazoparib question?
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, sure. So thanks for the question. So as Mikael said, the study showed with enzalutamide plus
TALAPRO, 10 -- tala versus enza, we showed a 37% reduction in the radiographic progression-
free survival. Notably, in the same presentation, we also showed a hazard ratio in the HRR
deficient population of 0.48, a significant p-value. And then, in the HRR non-deficient unknown
population, HRR of 0.7 with a p-value of 0.04.
So we remain confident about our data in the all-comer population. Obviously, we can't compare
to PROpel. Notably, in TALAPRO-2 we had prospective testing for HRR deficiencies, including
BRCA1 and BRCA2. I also want to point out that our control arm of Xtandi reaffirms Xtandi as the
best-in-class NHT for the indication with a radiographic PFS of 22 months. And in the treatment
arm with tala, rPFS was not reached.
So we expect that the HRR population, which is 25%, will be compelling with the data. And we'll
also continue to present additional data in HRR subpopulation at ASCO in 2023. And notably, we
did get prior review and we're currently in registration.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, William. And Mikael, what about RSV and flu?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. We are extremely excited about the RSV vaccine and we'll provide data on co-
administration of that vaccine with adjuvanted flu. We expect it to be available and generalized to
all flu vaccines. And then, when it comes to longer-term, we also are already in a combination
study with our RSV and using our internal portfolio of COVID and mRNA flu. So we see this as
developing a very strong portfolio this year with co-administration opportunities, next year
possibly our own flu vaccine, and then combination thereof. So stay tuned.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Andrew Baum, Citigroup with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citigroup `
Thank you. Just coming back to the -- your oral GLP-1 portfolio, Lilly has called out an anticipated
weight loss that's 32 weeks from memory of around 14%, 15%. They hesitate to give baseline.
Given the competitive nature of the field, your late-to-market, and the cost of running CVOT trials
in this setting, where does the relative weight loss need to be from your Phase 2 for you to
advance, given the benchmark that Lilly seems to be setting?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a good question for Mikael. Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. No, we agree completely with you that we should have an ambitious profile, and we have
certainly seen in patients up to 15% weight loss depending on different dose regimens. So for
obesity, that's a really good ambition to have up to 15%. And for diabetes patients, of course, it's
about having a very strong HbA1C lowering, maybe 2% or even more. So we think it's feasible
with orals and we think that will open up a very large place. And we think that pending data
readout, that we may have a differentiated profile for our full agonists.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. So we are waiting to see the data, the data that will speak. Let's go to the next
question, please.
Operator
Next, we have `Chris Schott, JPMorgan Chase & Co. with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Schott, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Great. Thanks very much. Just two questions for me. Maybe first on the capital allocation
comments, I guess, the more balanced capital allocation post the SGEN de-levering. Just on thatfront, where do we need to see leverage go to before we can think about that balanced
allocation? And in the meantime, what is the capacity and appetite for further deals? So, can we
think about kind of Biohaven-sized deals while you're de-levering from Seagen, or is it really
smaller transactions?
And then my second question was just one on RSV market development. Just how quickly do you
see this market developing? I guess, I'm just trying to get my hands around how much education
does this require? And do you worry at all about vaccine fatigue, I guess, just given all the
boosters that this population has received during the pandemic. Is that slow at all the uptake
versus kind of a normalized environment? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Good questions, Chris. Dave, capital allocation.
A - `David Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So thank you, Chris, for the question. Obviously, we have invested heavily back into our
business over the years, all with the focus of growing our business from, both from a top line
perspective, but importantly, from a bottom line perspective. And I think now as we begin to cycle
into, I'll say, post the peak of these reinvestment in the business. We should begin to harvest, if
you will, some of the cash flows coming out of the investments that we made and capitalized, if
you will, on the returns that we expect out of these investments.
So having said that, we expect, because of that we should get ourselves back more balanced
into the three pillars. Again, reinvesting back in our business, growing our dividend, and doing
value-enhancing share repurchases. From a leverage perspective, obviously, we want to maintain
our high investment grade rating and access to Tier-1 commercial paper. That would say that we
would probably be in the low 3x levered zip code from that perspective.
And then, from an M&A perspective, we're still active in the M&A market. Obviously, first and
foremost on our objective now is to close and begin to integrate Seagen. So that's priority
number one. Having said that, we will still look at the M&A marketplace, understand if there's
assets that meet our criteria to supplement our business, and we could theoretically execute
against that given our capital structure. Having said that, in the near-term, those will also probably
be smaller, little tuck-in type deals, given our leverage ratio in the very near-term.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for that. Angela, what about RSV and the educational effort that the market will need?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Well, with all launches, education is really important. And that's why we've already begun our
unbranded disease education with physicians laying the groundwork for the importance of
vaccinating for RSV. But of course, with all launches and with all new diseases, and education is
important to consumers, it's important to caregivers, to payers. And so, on all of those fronts,
those discussions have either begun or are beginning. And we plan to, obviously, implement a
robust market development plan like we do for all of our vaccines.
However, I think that the biggest advantage here is in the synergies of RSV, together with our
other adult vaccines, right? We have Prevnar 20 adult, we've had COVID. We -- all of these
vaccines follow a very similar pattern in terms of the commercial needs that they have. And I thinkthe very same approaches and mechanisms, and the same conversations that whether it's with a
retailer, whether it's a payer, whether it's with our points of vaccinations to bring RSV on. So
actually, I think that this is a very exciting time and we feel very confident about the ability to
seamlessly introduce RSV as another vaccine in our respiratory portfolio.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `David Risinger, SVB Securities with SVB Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `David Risinger, SVB Securities `
Yes. Thanks very much. First, could you discuss the Paxlovid private market sales potential in China
after March 31 that isn't included in your Paxlovid guidance for the year? And also, could you
comment on the late-stage competitive threats from Sanofi's 21-valent pneumococcal conjugate
vaccine in adults and infants? And Merck's 21-valent in adults? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Angela, Paxlovid quickly in private market in China?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. So after April, we continue to have Paxlovid available and -- but it will be accessed through
an out-of-pocket payment mechanism. So if you're a private patient, you can get it; if you're a
public patient, you can get it; you just need to be able to pay out of pocket for it. And we intend
to continue to work with the public and with the Chinese government to ensure its access.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
We can't give now guidance for a particular product in a particular country. So, but it depends on
how I explained the dynamics. Mikael, very quickly on the competition of -- on 1pneumococcal?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes, I mean, we are extremely excited about the PCV20 recent pediatric approval with a stellar
label reflecting the strengths of our data. We monitor carefully competitor activity, as you alluded
to, and are planning ourselves to enter next year, further expanded PCV vaccines, followed by
additional expansion a few years later, including optimization of the conjugation procedures,
including different carriers and possibly for the adult also, adjuvants that we think could be useful.
So this is a market where we have been the leaders. We have a unique platform and we monitor
and feel very confident that we are going to have a bright future. Although you mentioned
competitor, which is a nature of markets that are becoming, of course, more saturated like the
adult market, but there we also hope to benefit from our broader portfolio of respiratory
vaccines from COVID, flu, RSV that cannot be much by others at the moment.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please.
OperatorOur next question will come from `Steve Scala, Cowen with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen `
Thank you. I have two follow ups. First on pneumococcal vaccine. So Pfizer just started a study of a
vaccine, including a new ingredient. Is the new ingredient an adjuvant? Is it more valence? Or is it
something else? And then a follow up on the Opdivo versus Adcetris study. Can you say whether
you were aware of the data at the time of announcing Seagen acquisition? And why should we
not view this as a significant risk? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Mikael, what is the secret ingredient?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
The secret sauce in this particular trial is a new adjuvant that we think could play a potential nice
role in the PCV adult market as you go to increasing valency in this space. As I said before, in
parallel, we are working on looking at different carriers, different chemistries, and we'll shortly
reveal for next year the start of a broader expanded PCV vaccine that will incorporate all these
learnings. So stay tuned.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And William, again on the Opdivo study.
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, sure. So again, on the Opdivo study, that SWOG study has been ongoing for a while. We
were not aware of the data that's going to be presented at ASCO. I would reiterate again, it's
early PFS data from what we see, and the most important measure of activity in Hodgkin's
lymphoma would be overall survival. And again, we expect Seagen to get an updated label
showing overall survival benefit in first-line Hodgkin's lymphoma.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Kerry Holford, Berenberg with Berenberg. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you very much. Two questions on the RSV vaccine, please. Firstly, as the only older adult
vaccine, on Slide 22, you note emerging mid second season data supporting durable vaccine
efficacy. I wonder if you can elaborate a little more here, what data do you have in hand today?
And do you want to act against that second season data in front of the FDA ahead of approval?
And assuming you do see protection into that second season, how might that influence your
pricing in the U.S.?
And secondly, on the maternal vaccine, you have that launch scheduled in Q4 on Slide 6, but the
footnote here implies that that may not happen till first quarter of next year. So, could you just
provide more clarity on when you could launch that maternal vaccine? Thank you.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Mikael, what about the RSV vaccine?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah, we were very pleased to get our first data chunk from second season, mid-season data for
older adults. And it clearly shows that the robust data that we shared, for example, we shared
high 80% reduction in lower respiratory tract infections with three symptoms. We see also on this
and similar on other endpoints, a very robust, very meaningful protection also in the second
season.
Now, as you know, at the same time, we are preparing for the future combination vaccines and
we think in general that we will see an evolution in the adult market with simplified vaccination
schedule and your revaccination of COVID, flu, RSV. For those that for some reason miss a
vaccination, we think the second season data will be very good.
On the maternal, we are preparing for an advisory committee. We think we have great data. We
are the only one that have been able to conclude a maternal vaccination. We are the only one
that were able to construct an RSV vaccine without using an adjuvant. And we think it's a
differentiated product. And I assume it will be soon after a potential approval, ACIP and
opportunity for Angela to launch to a very eagerly awaiting community of increasingly attentive
pregnant women and maternal clinics to protect the newborn.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mike. As we said -- as we have it in our slide, we expect to be approved in this year in
the last quarter, so good launch. We expect the publication of the MMWR likely to happen at the
beginning of the next year. So, that plays also a key role in the uptake of the vaccine. But keep in
mind, the launch of vaccine starts before the approval, right, with a lot of educational efforts and
a lot of investments that we are doing in that field. So, in that aspect, the launch already has
started from our side, at least.
Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Carter Gould, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Carter Gould, Barclays `
Great. Thank you for taking the questions. I guess, first on the decision to establish a new
operating segment and specifically launch this Pfizer Ignite offering. Can you talk about what
drove that and if there's sort of like an aspirational target and how meaningful of a driver that
could be?
And then secondly, sort of on the decision to divest Bavencio, did that reflect sort of a signal you
got from FTC or a proactive move in your mind? Or are there other factors we should think
about? And the fact that we haven't seen other divestments to that, should that reinforce our
confidence that you think that the deal can go through without other issues? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you very much. On the Bavencio question, the discussions to return the rights for royalties,
in exchange for royalties, had started well before Seagen, so it has nothing to do with the
acquisition of Seagen. It was something that was ongoing between us and Serono [ph] for the
benefit of the product and for simplicity reasons. It just was completed after we announced the
deal, shortly after, but it had started way, way before.
Aamir, would you like also to explain the Ignite business?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. Carter, thanks for the question. I think you've seen us collaborate with the biotech ecosystem
in lots of different ways, and Pfizer Ignite is another way in which we can effectively do that.
Frankly, there's a lot of interest and demand on the part of particularly biotechs for working with
us to access some of our distinctive research and clinical development capabilities. And we think
Ignite gives us a platform to do that, to work with these companies, get closer to the science,
which over time also then improves our ability to access that science and make determinations
about what we would like to bring in-house. So we think this is an excellent way for us to continue
to collaborate with the biotech ecosystem and add to our growing and compelling pipeline over
time.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. On Paxlovid, the U.S. commercial opportunity, can you update us on any framing of
what you're thinking in terms of pricing and when we will know that? And in particular, with the
commercial availability, are you anticipating much in the way of sort of payer engagements in
terms of thinking about how that process will unfold utilization management-wise?
And then on the business development front, if we go to the $30 billion that you had outlined for
a while now, and think about what is remaining from that unadjusted target in terms of 2030
revenues, let's say, approximately $5 billion is left. As we're thinking about how you guys are
contemplating what areas to go into in terms of verticals or therapeutic areas or modalities,
would it be fair to expect that at this stage a consideration might be might be to minimize the
extent that you would have to rebuild or sort of refurbish on the SI&A front, given your margin
objectives longer-term? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Angela, on Paxlovid, the commercialization?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. So, hi, Chris. Yes, we're preparing for launch now, but as we've said -- we've shared before
the date of launch, and exactly how that's going to happen is still very much subject to our
discussions with the U.S. government. So, we're going to align with guidance from them in terms
of how that's going to happen. Of course, in the meantime, we are preparing for thecommercialization of Paxlovid and payer discussions around the world is critical. So, those have
begun.
Obviously, it's too early for me to share the price of Paxlovid. But suffice to say that the price
ranges that we have brought to our payers, together with the value arguments that we have
been able to develop through robust real-world evidence from the number of hospitalizations,
the number of deaths that we've been able to avert through the treatment with Paxlovid is a very
much supportive of the pricing ranges that we're talking about. So I think very soon we'll be able
to share more.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Aamir, about what is the profile of the future big deal activities?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, Chris, as you mentioned, we have a goal of $25 billion in risk-adjusted revenue by 2030, and
I should remind everyone that is a 2030 goal. We, with the deals that we've done, have a
remaining balance of less than $5 billion against that goal. And I think our strategy to pursue that
is going to be consistent with what we have employed to-date.
First and foremost, it's going to be about compelling science that we can add value to, that's also
going to contribute growth in the '25 to '30 period and take lots of things into consideration,
including the impact on the P&L profile. So that will continue to be our focus and we'll continue to
be disciplined in the opportunities that we look for. And as Dave mentioned earlier, our priority
right now is ensuring that we close out and successfully integrate the Seagen transaction, as well
as drive value from the other deals that we've done. And we'll continue to actively look for
opportunities.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And we are a bit out of time. So, last question, please.
Operator
Our last question will come from `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A couple of questions. The first is, how much of your future COVID vaccine revenue
forecast are tied to the ability to have a combination product? If something like mRNA flu ends up
not being viable and it knocks out a flu-COVID combo, does that impact your anticipated uptake
in 2025 and beyond? Or can you get to those longer-term guidance levels, regardless of
whether you have any combos or not?
And then, last question, Albert, I'm guessing there's some frustration among management with
what the stock's been doing. A tough 2023, 2022 wasn't a great year. This is despite Pfizer
helping lead the world out of the pandemic, which was a remarkable accomplishment. Even
today, the consensus is stock is down a little bit. So, as you talk to analysts and investors, what are
you hearing are the biggest concerns that you think could explain this? And what do you think
analysts and investors are missing or misunderstanding? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Tim. Let me start with the first one. We do expect that if there are successful
combinations with flu, that will drive utilization of the COVID vaccine much higher. As you know, in
our estimations, we expect, for example, in the U.S. around 24%, 25% in the next few years of
COVID vaccine. With flu right now utilization is around 50%, so there is a big gap. So that's why
we believe that the combination between flu and COVID will arise also to COVID, and eventually
potentially can go all the way up to the same utilization like flu, particularly given that there are no
co-patient approved and recommended vaccines.
Now, as regards the frustration of the 2023, clearly I believe that the stock price right now does
not reflect the value that Pfizer has. The fact that we are so proud because of our contribution in
saving the world, I don't think, but we expect stock price increases because of that. We did it
because it was the right thing to do and I think we are very, very proud of that. We expect to see
stock price increases as we are executing our plan, which is to create sustainable top line revenue
growth that will allow us to leverage the bottom line, that will grow faster than the top line.
And I think we articulated the plan about that. And that plan was to invest in acquiring good
scientific substrate that will allow us to launch products that will give us $25 billion revenues by
year 2030. And we have done tremendous progress on that by having already, according to our
calculations, $20 billion.
We are also invested in R&D in the last, in the past few years. And we have now an
unprecedented launch of new products. And I think the Street is expecting to see how those
launches will evolve. Clearly, I think there is an overhang over the COVID revenues. There is an
uncertainty if the COVID revenues will materialize. We don't have any precedence to show that
we know how to predict it well. So, our predictions are based on epidemiological science and
based on trends that we are testing with market people.
So, I think that from my perspective, what I said to the shareholders is that we are very
committed to creating value for the shareholders. We know that everything we do, we do it with
their money, it's not our money. And we want to be very good stewards of that. So, it's not
enough to save the world, I think also we need to increase the stock price. And we are highly
committed to do that by explaining better the strategy, and more importantly, executing on it.
So, with that, I think you gave me also, Tim, a good segue to close. In summary, we believe that
that was a solid quarter. We delivered on our commitments. We exceeded actually expectations,
we know from the Street. And we will continue doing so with a compass that we will create
serious value for patients. And that we are certain will translate into value for shareholders. We
are executing our plan and we will remain very committed to doing that.
Thank you very much to all, and have a nice day.
Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's teleconference and we appreciate
your participation. You may disconnect at any time and have a wonderful day.