Q3 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you all to the BMW Group's
telephone conference for the third quarter results. With us today are `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, Chairman of
the Board of Management and our Chief Financial Officer, `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance.
First, Walter will take you through our financial results. Oliver will then give you a general business
update for the BMW Group. Afterwards, we will have time for our Q&A session. Walter, please go
ahead.
`Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group delivered a strong performance in the
third quarter. As expected, we achieved solid sales growth and correspondingly positive financial
key figures. The Group EBT margin for the third quarter came in at 10.6%. For the nine-month
period from January to September, it was 11.9%, exceeding our strategic target of 10%. The
automotive segment posted an EBIT margin of 9.8% for the third quarter and 10.3% for the year
to the end of September.
Without depreciation of BBA assets from the purchase price allocation, the margins came in at
10.8% for Q3 and 11.4% through nine months. After successful third quarter, we expect a positive
business development in the fourth quarter. All segments are on track to meet our goals for the
year. I'd now like to show you a few slides with our business figures for the third quarter and the
first nine months in more detail.
Let's start with the Group figures. Group earnings before tax for the third quarter were on par
with last year at just under EUR4.1 billion, despite a significant headwind from the fair value
assessment of interest rate hedges compared to Q3 2022. Group pre-tax earnings for the year
to the end of September decreased by about EUR6.8 billion. However, last year's figure included
one-time income of EUR7.7 billion from the revaluation of equity interests in BBA. Without thiseffect and looking at the underlying operating result instead, Group earnings were EUR900
million higher year-on-year in the first nine months.
Let's take a look at the individual segments. Starting with the automotive segment, the BMW
Group delivered just under 622,000 vehicles to customers in the third quarter of 2023, a year-
on-year increase of 5.8%. Year to date September, deliveries rose 5.1% to around 1.84 million
vehicles. Our order books take us into 2024 with valuable impetus coming from new models like
the BMW 5 Series. We expect this positive trend in deliveries to gain momentum in the fourth
quarter, resulting in solid growth in vehicle sales for the full year as forecasted in August.
In addition to models from the upper price segment, our all-electric vehicles are another
important growth factor. We sold around 94,000 units in the third quarter and just under 247,000
fully electric vehicles for the nine-month period. BEV share of total sales continues to grow. In the
third quarter, it was 15.1%. In the fourth quarter, our sales of all-electric vehicles will get a further
boost from the launch of the new BMW i5. For the full year, we expect BEVs to account for about
15% of deliveries.
After nine months, the share was 13.4%. Third quarter automotive revenues were at the same
level as the prior year at EUR32.1 billion. However, currency translation headwinds from the US
dollar and Chinese renminbi played a part in this. Adjusted for these currency translation effects,
revenues increased by 6.5%, thanks to higher sales. The automotive segment's operating result
for the third quarter totaled just over EUR3.1 billion, with an EBIT margin of 9.8%. Year to date
September, the EBIT margin came in at 10.3%.
Let's take a look at the operating result in the automotive segment in more detail. In the year-on-
year comparison, we see that Q3 2023 was impacted by just under EUR200 million from the net
balance of currency and raw material positions. This difference is mainly due to currency
translation effects from development of the Chinese renminbi.
Raw material prices remain high, although we are seeing a slight tailwind compared to Q3 2022.
However, this does not include material and logistics costs. Volume, model mix and pricing effects
all contributed to a tailwind of around EUR300 million in the quarter. The largest share of this
position results from higher vehicle sales. The contribution from the model mix is only slightly
lower than the previous year, despite BEV growth. The market has continued to normalize over
the course of the third quarter, partly due to improved vehicle availability. We continue to pay
close attention to price discipline.
Expenses for research and development rose by around EUR100 million. This reflects a decrease
in the capitalization rate of 8.5 percentage points to 32.2% year-on-year. Based on Group R&D
spending, the R&D ratio according to German Commercial Code came in at 4.6%.
We expect the figure for the full year to be with -- within our long-term target range of 4% to 5%.
Research and development expenditure focused on the electrification and digitalization of our
vehicle fleet as well as the development of new models like the all new BMW 5 Series and the
Neue Klasse.
Digitalization includes the innovative BMW Operating System 9, which we are rolling out this year.
We are also making great progress in the area of automated driving. With Level 2 plus, the new
BMW 5 Series already offers a partially automated driving experience. We will also be launching
highly automated driving Level 3 shortly.
Sales and administrative costs increased by about EUR100 million partly due to higher spending
for digitalization projects. Other cost changes include cost for materials and logistics. They remainat a high level due to among other factors higher labor cost from our partners.
Although they were more or less stable in the quarter compared to previous year, we recorded a
notable negative impact in the nine months' period. Free cash flow in the Automotive segment
totaled EUR2.6 billion in the third quarter. The basis for this high figure is the strong quarterly
result of EUR3 billion.
The change in working capital increased free cash flow in this quarter by around EUR100 million. In
Q3, inventory levels rose however the increase in trade payables nearly offset the impact of the
higher inventory on working capital. The delta between capital expenditure and depreciation
reduced free cash flow in the third quarter by about EUR500 million. Capital expenditure for the
first nine months totaled around EUR5 billion mainly from the fifth and sixth generation e-modular
kits and the construction of the plant in Debrecen in Hungary. The CapEx ratio for the year to the
end of September was 4.5%. We still expect the ratio for the full year to be around 6%. Changes
in provisions had a negative impact on free cash flow of about EUR400 million. In the third
quarter, the profit sharing bonus for financial year 2022 was paid out to our employees and the
corresponding provisions dissolved.
Other items boosted free cash flow by around EUR400 million. At the end of September, free
cash flow in the Automotive segment stood at around EUR5.8 billion. In the fourth quarter, we are
planning for a significant increase in capital expenditure due to usual seasonality. This will
negatively impact free cash flow.
As I mentioned, we expect the CapEx ratio for the full year to be around 6%. Inventory decreased
towards the end of the year, but will still be at a high enough level of meant -- to maintain vehicle
supplies to markets. This will ensure we are able meet the robust global demand for our vehicles
in the first quarter of 2024.
The plant's significant uptick in costs as well as higher tax payments will weigh on our Q4 free
cash flow. As a result, we still expect the free cash flow of above EUR6 billion for the full year
2023.
Let's turn now to the financial services segment. I will focus on the first nine months of this
portfolio business.
Year to date September, the number of new financing and leasing contracts concluded with retail
customers decreased by 5.6%. This is partly due to higher interest rates which have substantially
increased financing costs for consumers. At the same time, the financial services sector remains
as competitive as ever.
However, when we look at the course of the year, we see a clear positive trend in new business
in financial services. While in new contracts with end customers in Q1 were just under 20% below
Q1 2022, they were back to the previous years' level in Q2. Driven by higher vehicle sales and by
the pre-owned car business, financial services reversed the trend in the third quarter.
New contracts with end customers rose by 5.7% compared to the third quarter of 2022. We
expect the positive development in new business to continue in the fourth quarter as well. The
average financing volume per vehicle increased from the previous year, primarily due to an
improved product mix in the Automotive business. For this reason, the volume of new business
decreased by only 1.6% for the year to the end of September. Segment earnings before tax,
totaled EUR2.45 billion at the end of September, down 8.3% from the previous year. This
decrease mainly reflects higher refinancing costs and the smaller size of the total portfolio.
Income from the resale of end of lease vehicles remained consistently high. The credit loss ratiois still at the low rate of 0.15% across the entire credit portfolio and we expect return on equity for
the full year to be within the range of 16% to 19%.
Let's move on to the motorcycle segment. In the third quarter, BMW Motorrad sales were on par
with a high level of Q3 2022 at just over 52,000 units. Segment EBIT totaled minus EUR4 million
compared to EUR87 million in the third quarter of 2022. This decrease was primarily due to
changes to the model launch calendar compared to the previous year. EBIT for the year to the
end of September totaled EUR308 million and was therefore slightly lower than the previous
year. The EBIT margin came in at minus 6% for the third quarter and 12.0% for the first nine
months.
I'd like to look now at the outlook for our key performance indicators. We expect to see stable
business development for the rest of the year and are therefore able to confirm our guidance for
the financial year 2023 for all segments. This assumes that the geopolitical and macroeconomic
conditions do not deteriorate significantly. In the Automotive segment, we are planning for a solid
increase in deliveries compared to last year. The segment's EBIT margin should come in at
between 9% and 10.5% with return on capital employed of between 18% and 22%.
The Motorcycles segment is projected to report higher sales. In this segment, we expect to see
an EBIT margin of between 8% and 10% and return on capital employed of between 21% and
26%. In the Financial Services segment, return on equity between 16% and 19% for the full year.
Ladies and gentlemen, our third quarter results once again underline the BMW Group's
performance capabilities. On this basis, we will be able to deliver a strong finish to 2023. With our
attractive premium product portfolio, we are in an excellent position across all brands, segments
and drive technologies to take advantage of market opportunities.
We remain cautiously optimistic about the future, despite all the economic and geopolitical
volatility. We have a long-term strategy and we have a clear plan. Our underlying earning power is
the result of continuous profitable growth in our core business as well as disciplined price and
cost management. It lays the foundation for our business success and allows us to leverage our
cash flow to finance our investment in emission free mobility.
At the BMW Group our thinking and actions are always geared towards the long term. We are
securing and creating value. And our financial strength allows us to shape our own future.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. Thank you very much, Walter. It was a pleasure and now Oliver. Zipse, Oliver, please
go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before I talk about current developments, I would like to
say a few words about the change in the Board of Management of BMW AG.
As you all know, the Supervisory Board appointed Jochen Goller to the Board of Management
effective 1st of November. After various roles in China and the United Kingdom as well as serving
as Head of the MINI brand, Jochen Goller has managed our activities in China very successfully
since 2018.
Sean Green, who was previously Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing at our BBA joint
venture, will be responsible for our business in China going forward, Jochen Goller it takes over
from Pieter Nota, who led let our Customer Brands and savings Board division from 2018.Under Pieter Nota's leadership, the BMW Group grew its global market share significantly, and
during this time, the BMW brand also regained its position at the top of the premium segment
and steadily expanded it.
I would like to extend my sincere thanks to Pieter Nota and wish Jochen Goller all the best as he
embarks on his new role. I just got back from a trip to Asia about a week ago. I know that some of
you will were also able to get an idea of the current market situation over there at the recent
BMW China Days in Shenyang and Shanghai. For me, the visit to Beijing and then the Japan
Mobility Show in Tokyo clearly showed once again there is no one-size-fits-all for the mobility of
today and more specifically tomorrow. Our world is multifaceted and that's why we need different
technological solutions. On the one hand, to meet our customers' wide ranging needs, on the
other hand to comply with very different regulatory requirements in countries around the world.
To decarbonize, China relies on pure electric vehicles but also on plug-in hybrids and hydrogen
fuel cell vehicles. In Beijing, for example, a large number of taxis already run on hydrogen. In the
third quarter of this year, we grew our business worldwide, thanks to our wide range of premium
vehicles across all drive technologies. Pure electric vehicles stood out in China, in particular, we
more than tripled our sales there in the first nine months compared to the same period of last
year.
In Japan, the current demand for all electric cars is still relatively subdued. The focus is more on
hybrids and cars with combustion engines, however, it became clear at the Japan Mobility Show in
Tokyo that Japanese manufacturers in particular are starting to set things up with their own
concept cars and fully electric options. Japan recognized the importance of hydrogen early on.
This is why our BMW iX5 hydrogen pilot vehicle has been well received there. For a global
premium manufacturer like the BMW Group, technology orientation and openness remains the
right path for decarbonizing mobility. Our healthy sales and financial figures are proof of this.
We will continue to pursue this path consistently in the future. In October, we presented the BMW
X2 with the all-electric iX2 as the latest example of this. The X2 is more than anything, a digital
champion. The new BMW Operating System 9 introduces the ideal platform for a comprehensive
range of digital features and functions such as totally new gaming and streaming capabilities. It is
features like these such as optimized touch controls or seamlessly integrated voice control that
allow our customers to enjoy a unique digital experience in their car. Early next year, our rollout of
new all-electric products will continue in the spring. The new BMW 5 Series Touring will celebrate
its world premiere. It will be available with the same drivetrain portfolio as the Sedan, including
the all-electric i5 touring. This gives us a real unique selling point in a segment that is very popular,
especially here in Europe. And our goal remains the same; more than half our global sales from
all-electric cars, well before 2030.
To this end, we're also further expanding our leading role in battery cell technology. At our
competence center in Parsdorf near Munich, we are laying the technological foundations for the
efficient and resource saving production of battery cells and we do this along the entire value
chain. We share the know-how we develop there with our suppliers. In this way, we are setting
benchmarks in production, quality, performance costs and of course ecology of battery cells.
Last week we put the competence center in Parsdorf into operation. Sample production of sixth
generation round cells has begun. These cells are characterized by an up to 20% higher energy
density. In addition, we were able to reduce the CO2 footprint in cell production by up to 60%.
Our customers will benefit from up to 30% faster charging speed and up to 30% higher range
according to WLTP and of course substantially lower manufacturing costs. In line with our local-for-
local principle, the BMW Group also ensures that that's the next step, high voltage battery
assembly takes place -- place as close as possible to the vehicle plants. This approach securesour production even in the event of unforeseen political and economic developments. Short
transport distances also reduce the carbon footprint of vehicle production.
Production facilities for the sixth generation of BMW high voltage batteries are currently being
built at all major manufacturing locations in Debrecen, Hungary, in Woodruff in South Carolina in
the United States, in San Luis Potosi and Mexico, in Shenyang in China and in Irlbach-Strakirchen to
supply our vehicle production here in Bavaria. A clear majority voted to allow the planning process
in lower Bavaria to continue in a recent referendum. It not only secures the future of our Bavarian
vehicle plants, it also sends an important signal underlining Germany's future viability as a location
for industry. We will start the construction within the next year. These high voltage batteries will
then be used in our Neue Klasse, which will also be produced at our main plant in Munich from
2026 onwards. We provided a glimpse of the Neue Klasse at the IAA MOBILITY in early
September here in Munich.
The BMW Vision Neue Klasse shows how we are designing individual mobility to be more human,
more intelligent and more responsible. For example, the materials we are developing for the
Neue Klasse will help to reduce its carbon footprint. An additional highlight is the BMW Panoramic
Vision Display, which uses the entire width of the windscreen and is visible to all passengers.
What has always set BMW apart is the perfect interaction of all components and the unmistakable
brand authentic driving dynamics that this enables. We are also taking this unique selling points to
a whole new level with a perfect combination of hardware and software. The Neue Klasse is
more than just another BMW brand car.
It is a whole new generation of products. We will be releasing six models on the roads within 24
months from SAVs to sedans. What all the models have in common is the all-electric heart that
powers them. MINI will also be all-electric in the future. Between now and 2030, we will be
completely realigning MINI and making the brand all electric.
We presented two key members of the new MINI family at the IAA MOBILITY, the MINI Cooper 3-
Door and MINI Countryman. The next fully electric MINI is ready to go in April 2024, the MINI
Aceman will make its world premiere in the premium compact car segment. The new MINI family
is produced by our Chinese joint venture partner, Spotlight, in China and in our plants in Leipzig
and Oxford.
Our second British brand is also on the threshold of pure electromobility. By the early 2030, Rolls-
Royce will also be exclusively all electric. Preparations for the sales launch of the first electric Rolls-
Royce are currently in full swing. The Spectre, which is scheduled for release by the end of the
year, is set to redefine modern luxury. And there's also been a change at the top of Rolls-Royce.
Torsten Muller-Otvos who has led Rolls-Royce since 2010 and driven the transformation and
rejuvenation of this unique marque is retiring. He will be handing over to Chris Brownridge from
1st of December. Chris currently heads the UK market for BMW bringing experience, of course,
but above all a feel for the exclusive demands of the brand and its customers. Let's now move on
to BMW Motorrad. We recently celebrated the brand's centenary at the end of September with
German chancellor, Olaf Scholz at our plant in Berlin-Spandou. The brand has performed
exceptionally well in recent years. Its centenary celebrations with the culmination of the career of
BMW Motorrad's longstanding leader, Markus Schramm who is also retiring. Under his leadership,
BMW Motorrad steadily expanded its product range, opened new markets for the brand and saw
numerous record breaking years.
Now Markus Flasch took over from him on 1st of November. Markus brings experience as head of
BMW M GmbH and head of the product line for BMW's mid-size and luxury class and Rolls-Royce.Let's talk about digitalization of the customer interface. While we are constantly expanding and
refining our product range, our current focus is on further digitalization of exactly this customer
interface. Direct customer access plays a key role in this. And to support this, our new direct sales
model for MINI is about to be launched in Europe. The rollout with MINI in China was already a big
success.
The European rollout will begin on 1st of January with Italy, Poland and Sweden. Other European
countries will follow in stages. And then the BMW launch will get underway in 2026. The direct
sales market will benefit everyone involved. Our customers are guaranteed full price
transparency and can move seamlessly between online and offline consulting options during the
purchasing process.
At the same time, it offers to our retailers an attractive business model as shown by their positive
response. All our European retailers have signed contracts for this effect. In return, the BMW
Group gains direct access to customers, which we will use to curate an entirely new customer
experience. The best example of this is our new proactive care service.
It uses data analytics and AI to evaluate data from the vehicle and detect potential problems
before they even occur. If the cars can be fixed using software, this is done remotely. In all other
cases, our customers receive a notification. For example, a tip for how to handle the issues
themselves or, if necessary, a note asking them to contact the BMW dealer and if the customer
agrees, an appointment can easily be set up using the automated system.
Ladies and gentlemen, in 2023, we are once again demonstrating the success of the BMW
Group's strategic approach. With our products, range of drive technologies and production sites
worldwide, our position is highly diversified.
A recent study also confirms this. US magazine Time and global database, Statista, named the
world's top 750 companies. The BMW Group ranked in the top 10 and was the highest rated
automotive manufacturer worldwide.
The mood is also very positive inside the company as this year our Employee Survey confirmed.
We asked our just under 150,000 employees on a global scale to tell us what they think. Their
responses showed that the BMW Group is a highly attractive employer, the workforce backs the
company's goals and our employees worldwide are very proud to work for the BMW Group. That
is the best foundation for continuing on our successful course in the future. Thank you very much.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, (technical difficulty) and now the line will
shortly be opened for questions. The operator will first give you some technical instructions.
Please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions). Our first
question comes from `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please unmute your line.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good afternoon and thank you for taking my questions. Oliver, maybe just the first one for you.
When your team very kindly hosted us in China a few weeks ago, one of the subjects which cameup was whether or not it would be possible to price the i5 at the same level as the combustion
engine cars, given that at the top end of the market, you're seeing a consumer preference still
for ICE over electric. From your perspective, do you see this as purely a phenomenon in China or
do you think there is a risk that in other parts of the world, we also see the consumer not willing
to pay more for a battery electric vehicle versus an internal combustion engine vehicle.
The second question I had, which also related to battery electric vehicles, was for Walter.
Obviously, BMW has had tremendous success with its battery electric vehicles and that's shown in
your sales numbers today. Could you just elaborate for us, are you starting to see some
meaningful scale benefits as your battery electric vehicle volumes rise and what are the
implications from that for the economics on your BEVs as we think about 2024 and outyears [ph]?
Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Could we start with your pricing question about the i5 in China with Oliver and then Walter?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
George, hello. First of all, you mentioned there is some resistance in buying EVs in China, that's
not true for BMW. We tripled our EV sales in the first nine months. So with the ramp-up of e-
mobility worldwide, which is still not the majority of cars being sold -- by the way, nowhere in the
world, we are right on track there. One peculiar good observation is that in the 5 Series on the
comparable performance level, we will -- we will pursue a path of the same pricing for EVs and
the ICE. Every market will have a different approach here. I think in China, this is, at this point in
time, the right approach. This is still, by the way, a very profitable thing for us. And when we do
the pricing, we will not do anything which will -- which will harm our profitability and especially we
will be super careful about our keeping of the pricing points there, but I think our strategy in the
EV in China is working out for us as I just presented.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yeah. George, EV is scaling and is contributing towards the scale is positive and we shouldn't
forget that Gen 5 is still going to scale, as you saw in our CapEx numbers, which were still
contributing to more capacities and this will even end up in a better scaling effect for us. So yeah,
we are looking forward to it.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Walter. And next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane from BNP Paribas Exane. Please unmute your
line.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `
Hi, there. And thank you for taking my question. The first one is around BEV demand in the near
term. So I think this morning, you said that your overall order book reaches into Q1 2024, but youalso said that the BEV orders are particularly strong. So, can I ask specifically how long your BEV
order book is at this stage and also how that's evolved over the last few months basically where
was it in Q2, and where is it now?
My second question is on the mix. I think when you discuss the Q3 EBIT bridge, you indicated that
the mix dynamic was a combination of a positive model mix, and a negative powertrain mix and
they seem to have broadly balanced each other out. So is that something we should expect to
see going forward and through 2024? And if you could tell us what the key factors in the model
mix evolution are likely to be through the coming 12 months, that would be most helpful. Thank
you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. Thank you very much, Dorothee. We start with Oliver and then Walter. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Dorothee, hello. Thank you for your questions. Let me first start with -- with an overlook, we
always said that BEV ramp-up is not a zero-sum game. If you look closely at our figures for the
first nine months, then the combustion engine part, including the plug-in hybrids, they almost
stayed the same compared to last year. I think it's minus 1.6%, so almost the same.
Whilst at the same time, the -- for BMW, the demand for BEV's (inaudible) were increased by
more than 100%. So the question is how do you remain our traditional car business intact, which is
working and the growth comes out of the EV. Now look, the order book for the next year, we will
introduce the i5, the iX2, the iX1 with all performance levels. We will have three completely
electric MINI models and that is why I believe because they are all new at the same time that we
will have a strong push towards BEV demand to reach our target of 20% in 2024, which we
always said 15% this year, 20% next year and then it goes in 2025 to 25% and so on. So actually
it's happening exactly in the way we prognosed it to be.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Oliver. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Discussion on the bridge, Dorothee, was with regards to Q3 '23 versus Q3 '22. So of course we
had benefits in a stronger mix in ECA L [ph] as well as in the M, not to forget. And here, we
started this lower segment (inaudible) but not to forget they are strong contributors to our total
contribution, right?
So, of course, the total contribution on average on an EV total all volumes is still lower than the
total ICE level, but we shouldn't forget that we always speak about the portfolio. The total
portfolio is starting with the MINI and ending ultimately with the Rolls-Royce and everything in
between. So of course you have models, which you have very, very high contributions over the
average and of course we also have some under, but we are still happy with the contributions of
our EV cars.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Very clear message. Thank you very much, Dorothee. Next question, please.
OperatorOur next question comes from `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Thank you very much. Hi, everyone. Two items, please. The first one, Walter, can you comment a
little bit with regards to the fourth quarter, what should we expect in terms of volume outlook for
Q4.
And then when it comes to supplier compensation in Q4, maybe can you elaborate a little bit
around whether BMW books the supplier compensation on a quarterly basis or should we expect
a bigger one-time impact in Q4, maybe similar to what we have seen across some of your
competitors.
And therefore Oliver, look, one of your competitors seems to be quite clear that they can launch
electric cars priced below EUR23,000 in Europe and actually make money. So I was thinking. If you
could please -- maybe you can provide us an update with regards to your path to margin parity
between ICE and BEV and I will be particularly interested in understanding a bit better this path to
margin parity in the smaller premium car segment for BMW and whether the battery remains the
biggest -- the biggest driver in this path. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. Thank you very much, Jose. We start with Walter and then Oliver.
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Hello, Jose. So as I mentioned and you know, our seasonality in Q4, first of all, volume-wise as we
predicted in August, it will be a solid performance in Q4 compared to previous quarter four. But
as I've just mentioned, seasonal impacts on costs, fixed costs will always hit Q4 as usual. So this
will weigh and the material cost headwinds, which we referred to in August is also still down,
which is linked to the supplier compensation for increasing labor cost and inflation.
We haven't finished all contracts yet, but the majority is done. So of course, there will be the final
impact, but not major I assume and the total costs, which is also something which we shouldn't
forget some elevated labor costs applied only from July onwards with the full second half-year
impact which wasn't there in the first half year. So having said that, I still can confirm that the full-
year 2023 will deliver within our revised corridor of 9% to 10.5% still.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much Walter. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Jose, as I said before, the question is not do I sell an ICE or a BEV, it's a question to participate in
the BEV growth and we do substantially that and then look at our product portfolio, there is an i4
M50, which is very profitable. With what car do we compare that? There is no comparing
combustion engine for an i7 M60 or an i7 M70.
These cars are sold because they are best and not because there are --there is another ICE. So
these comparisons are very difficult to do because all the growth goes into the BEV side. The
question is do you grow or do you not grow -- so and we decided to grow. And in these upper
segments, there -- there is no unprofitable segment.And then the segment you mentioned EUR25,000 BMW -- neither BMW nor MINI is participating
in that segment. So I cannot comment on this segment because we are not in that.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Oliver and thank you very much, Jose. Next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you very much guys. Good quarter. Thank you. I would have two questions please.
The first one is, Oliver, when you say selling the 5 Series best at a comparable price to the Asian
region. How can that be what you call it a very profitable change volume because BEV engines
must be a lot more expensive?
And then secondly, when we think about strategically one of the big takeaways from this
reporting season for many of your peers was a much lower demand for BEVs and hence lowering
their targets. If we come to a situation where a lot of your competitors need to invest more into
ICE engines for longer than I thought, would you be open to provide ICE engines to them as a
potential supplier to some of your competitors in meaningful size? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Tim. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Tim, you really like that question about this parity. And I'll just repeat myself, if you would not
provide the best to the market, you would simply not have the business. There are no customers
who decide between BEV and an ICE. This is not existent. So either you grow and you make BEVs,
and with the I5, this is profitable growth.
And then of course the redefining price point is not only the powertrain, it's the options you've
put in the car and at the end is the contribution amount of the car. And I can only -- only tell you
we would never sell an electric car without being contributing to profitability. We will not do that.
And it's a question of growing or not growing. It's not is that exactly comparable. And we only see
that currently in China. Not in the other markets that we positioned the cars exactly at the same
price. But this is a unique thing for China and nowhere else in the world. And first of all, actually
we already provide some engines to other car manufacturers like for rental, we do that as public
and the rest is a question mark. I don't know, but no one asked us yet.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Great. Thank you. And once again, I just clarify one point that you said that the Q4 would be within
your full year guidance range in Automotive; that's at least how some people here interpreted it,
just to make sure that we got the right message. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
They said that the full year number will be within our guidance. I didn't speak about the Q4Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. Okay, Tim, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah, good afternoon and thank you. Hi, Oliver. Hi, Walter. My first question probably to Oliver
regarding the BEV sales trajectory. Undoubtedly you have good product momentum with the new
5 Series, 5 Touring -- i5 Touring incoming. If I remember correctly, you said 15% roughly this year,
25% -- 20% next year, 25% in 2025. Now from a CO2 compliance in Europe, you probably don't
even need such a steep curve. Correct me if I'm wrong. So in light of what your competitor called
brutal competition, you might be inclined to say, let's not push too hard on the BEV side that
would also optimize your margins maybe against that backdrop of brutal competition. Would you
see that 20% next year and 25% in '25 still more or less a linear trajectory or could it be the right
time to slow down things a little bit on the BEV side next year before maybe reaccelerating later.
And my second question, Walter, I'm not sure to which extent you want to answer it. Nonetheless,
I try on a qualitative basis. If we think about the key bridge items going into next year, you said
you look into 2024 cautiously optimistic, which means everything and nothing but if you think
about the main building blocks in the bridge like volume, price mix, fixed costs, residual values, et
cetera, how do you feel about those items from today's perspective? Do you end up with a
positive view in terms of growing EBIT year-over-year? How do you think about these items?
Thank you.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Patrick, do I understand you right that you try to slow us down. Two years ago, it was the other
way around.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
I'm not trying to slow you down. I want to understand your thinking, Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Okay. (Multiple Speakers) Okay. What -- we will do exactly what we said two or three years ago.
We are creating a market that is strong products create strong demand. And then the number is
15%, 20%, 25%, 33% and 50% before 2030, these are market figures. These are demand
figures. This is, at no point in time, a push figure. We will not do that by the way, independent of
the regulation and we are quite sure with -- with that wide array of products we are having and
which are about to come, including the Neue Klasse, there will be a strong market demand and
strong market demand always means profitable price points.
We will never push cars into market only for regulatories [ph] at least not in the next three to five
years, which we can oversee. And that's not necessary because we -- every segment we have
presence, we will have the MINI 4 cars, we will have a whole array in (inaudible) all the way to the 7series and of course at Rolls Royce. And I think there is no reason to slow down and there is no
reason to even accelerate. So we see, what we see strong, strong normal, if I may say so market
demand and we will follow the market here. Thank you.
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yeah. And with respect to 2024, I think we will speak about in March and all the rest is up to the
community because as `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management mentioned we have strong attractive products to come,
which we're all looking forward to.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. Okay. Thank you very much. I think the next question, if it's the last question, Nora [ph]. I
don't know. So three more questions. Okay, next question please, Yes.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC from HSBC. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC `
Yeah, hi there, Mike Tyndall. Thanks for taking my question. Just a couple if I may, you mentioned
in the preamble around price normalization. And if I'm not wrong, you mentioned it at Q2. I
wonder if you could just kind of elaborate a little bit more on what that means, what are you
seeing sequentially in terms of pricing and what are you thinking of going forward on pricing.
And then the second question I guess you've mentioned part of the reason for keeping the cash
flow guidance still at 6, even though you've done quite a lot of that already is this big step-up in
costs in Q4. I wonder if you can just help us a little bit to understand the order of magnitude of
some of those costs that are going to come through in Q4. Thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Michael. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Hello to you. Pricing side, let's start with step one. When if you have a look for our numbers, our
net sales average is quite stable, I would say FX related, it looks like it's inventory is different, but
if you corrected by FX, you will have more or less the same amount as we had into Q2 and Q1.
So that is still positive and with respect to, for example, some external data, we also do use
Autodata for the US. You will see that our sales allowances is less than $3,000 a car. Why is that?
Because we recognize that the Autodata Institute is rather taking on also IRR support and -- is
including that one, which is reflecting roughly $900 to $1000.
But if you deduct this one because this is to the customer support by the government rather than
by us, we are under $3,000 which is a superb number if you compare it with historical data, I
would say. So I think our momentum is still positive. With respect to free cash flow, well, I think we
mentioned already in Q2 versus Q2 actuals that we see strong CapEx cash out in Q4 and we also
stress that we are not reducing inventory levels as we did in previous years, because we want to
achieve our momentum in Q1 '24 to have stable supply for the good demand we are facing. So
that's the reason why the free cash flow is not exploring but rather static above 6 billion.A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, thank you very much, Michael, for your questions. I think we have two more questions.
Please go ahead.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale. (Operator Instructions).
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes, thank you very much. `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale, Societe Generale here. Apologies, I was cut off for a
little while, so I'm not sure if these questions have been asked, but I'll try anyway. First question,
please, on nearer term, could you comment on your certified used vehicle program, how that's
been developing because obviously that's been a very big difference from the last -- when we
had the last great financial recession, the ability to treat your returning cars much better and
getting higher price realizations on those. So if you give us the trend on that please.
And secondly maybe a bit longer term and looking at the generation 6 of the battery cells, you're
moving to the new cell format, the cylindrical cells. How confident are you and what current
indications you have on that -- on the manufacturing to avoid some of the problems that others
who have gone to that larger cell format may have been planning [ph] at the moment. Thank you
very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. We start with your first question with certified used cars program and then Oliver. Okay.
Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Right. The certified used car program is still running nicely with respect to our new car and used
car business with Financial Services is still moving ahead, so it's increasing both businesses. I think
that is most relevant. With respect to used car in principle as I've stated, the residual value is still
strong and the returns as I also mentioned are also coming in on a high level.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. And then second part Stephen was about larger cell formats and our challenges for this
and this will be answered by Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yeah. We are starting with our sixth generation, a new era inside the cell development, first of all,
to scale it up to the needed volume to support market demand and also to reduce cost. At the
same time, not all cell we move to the cylindrical shape. We will still have rectangular cells in our
portfolio for specific demand, especially for the entry models. So there will be a long time, where
we have both cell formats, cylinder and rectangular, at the same time to create the right mix for
the customer demand and also to create the right price point for each and every model. But what
is -- what is correct, the sixth generation the majority of cells will be cylindrical.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good. And now we are coming to the last question. Yes.Operator
Our last question will come from `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question and congrats actually on the results. I think
it's pretty clean solid result in a difficult environment. I wanted to ask a couple of clarifications,
please. I just have the feeling we might leave with very mixed messages from both on the
volume and a pretty wide range for the margin for the first quarter. So let me ask you, the 15%
implied volume growth to get you to the midpoint of what you define as solid, that would imply
750,000 units in the fourth quarter. That seems pretty high. I just wanted to perhaps discuss if
that's really what you're thinking. And perhaps more importantly, Walter, I appreciate you say you
come in the margin range for the full year, but of course for the fourth quarter, in the meantime,
that implies a range of 5% to 11%. So I'm just wondering if you really want us to leave the call
thinking it could be really as low as 5%. I guess you're accommodating (inaudible) for lower
pricing, maybe some dealer compensation again, higher R&D, but do you really not to sort of
draw a line that's a bit higher than 5% for the fourth quarter. Thank you very much.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Thank you very much, Henning. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Hello, Henning. I thought I'd rather speak clear than giving mixed messages but never mind, so I
think with respect to this margin ranges you reflect here, I think I pronounced that we will be
within the 9% to 10.5% EBIT margin full year. And if you then mathematically calculated back, you
will never end up with a 5% or 6% or 7% or just 8%.
So I think all the rest is up to your excellent model, I guess. So with respect to the headwinds, I
mentioned them already. Fixed cost will rise and then with having less inventory at year-end than
currently year-to-date September, this will also have some slight impact on that. Right? So I think
we've made it all clear, at least I thought.
A - Unidentified Speaker
I think now, it is clear. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. It was a
pleasure and we see each other, again. Bye-bye and that was from Munich. Bye.