S1 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us today. Now we would like to begin our
press media briefing on fiscal-year '25 Q2 Financial Results Briefing, I am EDA from Corporate
Communications. It is my pleasure to serve you as your MC today.
First of all, I would like to invite General Manager, Yamamoto, of Finance Division for the outline of
the financial results.
`Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
We would like to express our heartfelt appreciation to our customers around the world who
chose us as well as our shareholders, dealers and suppliers who support us. We will now explain
the summary of the financial results. Our operating income for the first half of this fiscal year was
JPY2,464.2 billion. Despite the impact of production halts and additional expenses, we managed
to achieve operating income nearly on par with the same period of the previous fiscal year by
strengthening our foundations and improving our business base through everyone's participation.
We would like to express our appreciation to our stakeholders including suppliers and dealers
who support us.
The full-year forecast is JPY4,300 billion, which remains unchanged from the previous forecast.
To strengthen the foundations of car manufacturing, we will increase our investment in human
resources and growth areas to JPY830 billion for the full year. Additionally, we aim to maintain
and enhance our earnings power through measures such as controlling incentives and increasing
value chain earnings, while restoring production volume in the second half of this fiscal year. As
for shareholder returns, to reward our long-term shareholders and with our policy to increase
dividends in a stable and continuous manner, we will raise the interim dividend by JPY10 to JPY40
per share. The forecasted full-year dividend will be JPY90 per share, increased by JPY15.
First, let me explain our financial results for the first half ended September 2024. Consolidated
vehicle sales for this period were at 4,556,000 units, which was 96% of that for the same period
of the previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales were 5,029,000 units, which was 97.2%
of such sales for the same period last year. Due to the impact of halting production to address
certification issues, et cetera, sales volume decreased. In addition, the proportion of electrified
vehicles increased to 44.4%, mainly due to the strong performance of HEV sales in North
America, Europe, Asia and other regions. Consolidated financial results were, sales revenue of
JPY23,282.4 billion, operating income of JPY2,464.2 billion, income before income taxes ofNet income decreased significantly from the same period previous year, mainly due to valuation
losses in foreign currency denominated assets caused by exchange rate fluctuations. This
represents the gap between the valuation gains from yen depreciation in the previous fiscal year
and the valuation losses from yen appreciation in this fiscal year, so it does not indicate any actual
deterioration. I would like to explain the factors, which impacted operating income year-on-year.
We are steadily implementing investments to achieve sustainable growth together with our
stakeholders, as explained at the beginning of this fiscal year. For the first half, we made JPY180
billion in human resource investment and JPY110 billion investment in growth areas.
On the other hand, the effects of foreign exchange rates, cost reduction efforts and marketing
efforts increased operating income by JPY620 billion, despite sales volume and sales decreased
operating income by JPY140 billion due to the impact of halting production. In addition, there
were onetime expenses such as the certification issues for Hino Motors' engines in North
America markets, leading to a decrease in operating income by JPY95 billion year-on-year. This
shows operating income by geographical regions. Japan decreased due to decreasing sales
volume and steps to strengthen foundation to suppliers. North America decreased due to
deterioration in sales volume and sales mix and increasing labor costs. Europe and Asia increased
mainly due to the cost reduction.
Operating income in our share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method in
China decreased due to mainly to an increase in sales expenses. Operating income in the
financial services business increased largely due to an increase in loan balances. Now,
shareholder returns. We decided to disclose dividend forecast to create an environment that is
more conducive to investment by our shareholders. We will raise the interim dividend by JPY10
from the previous fiscal year, bringing it to JPY40 per share. The forecasted full-year dividend will
be increased by JPY15 to JPY90 per share. We will continuously increase dividends in a stable and
continuous manner to reward our long-term shareholders.
Regarding share repurchases, we will not increase the maximum limit as we already raised it by
JPY200 billion in September. We will continue to conduct flexible share buybacks in response to
the market. Now, I will go on to the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2025. Taking into
account the decrease in sales volume in the first half and recovery in production in the second
half, consolidated vehicle sales is expected to be 9,400,000 units, 98.9% of the previous
forecast. Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales are expected to reach 10,100,000 units, 97.1% of the
previous forecast. Electric vehicles will account for 46%.
Now for the full-year consolidated financial forecast, we have assumed the full-year foreign
exchange rate to be JPY147 to the U.S. dollar and JPY161 to the euro. Our forecast will be sales
revenues of JPY46 trillion, operating income JPY4,300 billion, income before tax JPY4,980
billion, net income JPY3,570 billion. We will strengthen and accelerate investment in human
resources and growth areas in the second half of this fiscal year, while strengthening our
foundations and maintaining our earnings power. The full-year forecast remains unchanged at
JPY4,300 billion, but we will strive to make some recovery from temporary negative factors with
reinforced kaizen efforts.
Our CFO, Miyazaki will share the details with you now.
`Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer `
Thank you very much, `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will
explain the background of these financial results. I am Chief Financial Officer `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer.
Although we have maintained our JPY4.3 trillion operating income forecast for the current fiscalGroup, I would like to explain some initiatives we have been pursuing in connection with changes
from initial plan.
This fiscal year, while maintaining our ability to earn JPY5 trillion, we are strengthening and
accelerating our investment in people, including suppliers and dealers and investment in growth
areas. We are taking such measures a step higher, expanding total investments to JPY830 billion.
We further plan to recover from the impact of the decrease in production volume in the first half
of the fiscal year and the temporary negative factors related to Hino Motors by improvement
efforts through activities to strengthen our work foundation. From here on, I would like to explain
our improvement efforts. The first effort is to recover production volume. In the first half of this
fiscal year, domestic production volume was 1.53 million units, which was lower than the previous
fiscal year's actual results and the initial forecast. This was due to the need to address the
certification issues and taking time to re-examine our manufacturing environment and culture with
the top priority on safety and quality.
We apologize for causing inconvenience and concerns, but in the second half, we will leverage
our -- uniquely Toyota foundation of car manufacturing that we have regained and aim to recover
to 1.75 million units, which is a little more than the initial forecast. Our Indiana plant in the United
States, which had partially halted operations, also restarted last month, and in the second half of
the fiscal year, we expect to return to an annual growth production -- global production pace of
10 million units. The second effort is to reduce incentives. Although the COVID-19 pandemic and
tight semiconductor supply and demand significantly reduced days' inventory, we have been
maintaining lean operations by having established a system based on what we have learned and
realized.
Additionally, through in-store communications that values a trusting relationship with each
customer, we have been able to continuously sell every petrol cars at appropriate transaction
prices. Due to the appeal of our product and the accumulation of activities efforts in each region,
we are forecasting lower sales expenses than initially expected. The third effort is to expand
value chain earnings. This graph shows the trend in value chain sales revenues, which have been
increasing by more than JPY100 billion each year. A driving force behind this increase in value
chain earnings is that our dealers have maintained the touch points with customers, leading the
number of units retained significantly.
Our steady efforts, such as expanding the variety of measures, packages and the introduction of
extended warranties have led to results. Such efforts, which our European business is at the
forefront will be rolled out in other regions. Also, with the increase in SDVs, will strengthen our
hardware and software upgrade services, aiming to stabilize and expand our earnings in new
domains. From here, I would like to explain about strengthening our work foundation. Our goal is
to shorten lead times companywide. To achieve this, among other things, we need to eliminate
waste and redoing of work and make it possible for anyone to get their jobs done.
Specifically, amid a shortage of human resources, we have been working companywide across
divisions and functions to create environments in which anyone can work and to improve what we
call prove what we call the rate of value-added work, which is the ratio of work that is truly
meaningful, that adds value. There are two main things I would like to accomplish -- we want to
accomplish. The first is to increase the speed at which we can respond to environmental changes
in an age that future is hard to predict. And also second is to improve our fundamental
capabilities that will enable us to carry on Toyota's philosophy of leaving no one behind and
producing happiness for all, even though the advances in vehicle functionality mean that the full-
line multi-pathway car making is not easy.As a specific example, we are currently advancing what we call within Toyota Area 35 project,
which aims to improve our rate of value-add work through integrated efforts involving
development, production and sales. To meet the diverse needs of our customers around the
world, we tend to come up with numerous specifications for our vehicles, but some of them
contribute little to sales. By improving our accuracy in forecasting customer needs, we can
optimize the number and types of specifications and parts and thereby expanding the space for
finished vehicle production and increasing development efficiency. Although our activities have
just begun at our domestic plants, we have managed to create a production capacity of 80,000
units per year and additional development capacity equivalent to three vehicle model redesign
projects.
Toyota has 54 assembly plants worldwide. Going forward, we will expand our activities globally to
create further growth drivers. Our efforts to shorten lead times as a part of our foundation
strengthening also enhance the flexibility of our production readiness and project review for
electric vehicles to adapt more effectively to changes in actual demand and make last-minute
investment decisions. This flexibility is particularly effective where Toyota's strategy includes
having all options available, including hybrid electric vehicles because it maximizes its benefits and
strengthen our competitive edge. Since it is the customer who ultimately chooses the product,
we are preparing ourselves to build a system that can flexibly accommodate our customers'
choices. Internalizing battery technologies will be an important key to advancing the widespread
use of our electrified vehicles.
From that perspective, we are promoting in-house production of all types of batteries, including
ternary lithium, lithium-ion phosphate and all solid-state batteries. This will enable us to develop
optimal batteries for the cars that we want to make. At the same time, an important key factor to
any battery development and production is higher production efficiency. We are working to
ensure production flexibility, such as common usage of batteries for battery electric vehicles and
plug-in hybrid electrical vehicles, so that we can respond to any customer's needs. Because we
will ultimately need to internalize production engineering for aptly mass-producing different types
of batteries in the same plant and buildings, we made battery manufacturer Primearth EV Energy
our wholly-owned subsidiary. It began operations as Toyota Battery in October 2024, a steady
progress in strengthening our work foundation for our battery strategy as well.
Finally, Toyota cannot change the future of automotives on its own. We need cooperation from all
our stakeholders. To this end, we would like to use the resources made available. Thanks to our
many stakeholders in such a manner to grow together with our customers, shareholders,
suppliers, dealers, employees and local communities. We look forward to your continued support.
This concludes my presentation. Thank you very much for your attention.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you very much. We would like to move on to the Q&A session. Those participants
expected to be on the stage, please come on to the stage. Once again, allow me to introduce to
you the people on the stage, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer;
Chief Officer of Accounting Division Group, `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group; Chief Officer of Corporate
Communications Group, `Hiroyuki Ueda, Chief Officer, External & Public Affairs Group. Please be seated. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would
like to open the floor for Q&A. First of all, I would like to entertain questions from those
participating in-person. After stating your affiliation and name, please start your question. I wouldtwo questions at the maximum per person. So at the left-hand side of this middle row, (inaudible)
of Trinity Newspaper.
Q - Analyst
Thank you for this opportunity. Relating to certification issues or recall that caused a volume
decrease, and in the first half, you explained that by increasing or recovering the production
volume on the full-year basis, you restore the expectations. But how can that be pursued
together with your efforts -- continuing efforts to consolidate the strength and the work
foundation? You also talked about the creation of reserve capacity and also the rate of value-
added work. How can they be pursued simultaneously?
Operator
I would like to ask Mr.Miyazaki to respond to this question.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer `
Thank you for your question. Going forward, we will recover the production volume. But as we
continue to make efforts to improve workplace, how we are going to address the situation in
workplace was the question. With the certification issue and quality issue, we have been having
clear communication with the workplace and we were able to confirm to the extent to which we
were not able to really become aware of this. After the certification issue, Chairman Akio took
initiative in having jishuken for GPS. Before that, we have been receiving voices from worksites,
ourselves staying in the conference room. But with Chairman Akio starting and initiating those
efforts, the top executives like ourselves decided to go to the Genba, that is worksite, not just
asking for the issues they are confronted with, we also asked them what can we do to help you
achieve your work?
And through those, including the pain points, we made efforts to improve environment and we
came to realize that there are many cases in which we were not able to become aware of the
difficulties faced by Genba people. And that caused some time to be used for that purpose. But
since around September this year, production stabilized in the actual worksites and we were able
to ensure the required quality level. And therefore, since October, striking good balance
between work and holidays as well as weekend works, we were able to restore some production
volume. So having good communication dialogue with people on the worksite, we have been
saying that we would bring back to the initial level of the production volume expectation. As I
mentioned earlier, the environment in which anyone can make their jobs done and also anyone
can take action in the worksite are the keys in this. Not ending efforts here, but we intend to
continue with those efforts. We would like to pursue both this and the creation of reserve
capacity.
Q - Analyst
One other question. You already announced that various companies within Toyota Group
announced their financial results, including some suppliers and they are characterized by
reduction in both top line and bottom line and downward revision of a full year forecast. And what
is your assessment of those? As you also mentioned in your presentation, you have expanded to
JPY830 billion, the investment for suppliers and human resource activities.
A - Unidentified Speaker
So on those -- including that, I would like to ask Mr.Miyazaki to respond to that.A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer `
Thank you very much. We announced production plans, and as the OEM, we have the
responsibility of steadily accomplish those announced plans and that point was strongly brought
home to us in the first half, including secondary and third tier. We should not change the plan
once announced (inaudible) and also even if the contents are not clear, but we need to
implement those plans once announced. So by looking at the results of different companies
within the group, we are trying to make every effort to achieve the plans. So by re-examining our
position and by restoring the strong capability, we would like to make sure that our initiatives will
lead to the joint growth with the suppliers and other companies.
A - Unidentified Speaker
About the supplier support, Mr.Yamamoto will explain to you in details.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. The financial results announced by different entities within Toyota
Group, we looked at them and in the first half, during which we halted production and that really
impacted the suppliers. As Miyazaki-san mentioned earlier, first of all, in the second half, we will
make sure that we can solidly produce vehicles and by doing so we would like to recover the
production volume. The support to suppliers is based upon the concept of joint beneficial efforts,
and by deciding concrete amounts, we have been conducting efforts since the beginning of this
financial year. And in the first half already, it reached JPY180 billion and JPY115 billion relates to the
support specifically to suppliers. And the amount or numbers are not the only essential factors.
That is to say, by us working in the Genba and participating in improvements and necessary
financial resources for improvement will be spent for that purpose.
As you referred to Toyota Times, you may be able to find some specific details. But by ourselves
working in the Genba, in terms of logistic improvement both income means goods and outgoing
goods, we need to avoid the situation where those will not crash with each other. And also by
making the work easier, by introducing some karakuri-based equipment in some suppliers, the
outdated facilities had brakes broken, but the brake manufacturers are no longer producing
those. But in that case, we decided to use the brakes used for RAV4 and that actually worked
quite well. So by us working in the actual worksite of suppliers, not just in the primary, but second
and third tier suppliers, we were able to actually promote those initiatives. So not just spending
money, but ourselves working together with suppliers is something that we would like you to
focus on in observing.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Next question, please. Someone in the very first row, please wait for a microphone.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. I am Yao from Nikkei Deli. Thank you very much for this opportunity. I have
two questions to Miyazaki-san. Now, between April and September, JPY1.9 trillion, a reduction of
25%. What were the factors behind that? And their business environment has not deteriorated,
and against which, why you have posted losses? Actually, about the Chinese market, you were
once in a period of endurance. What is your view now? Has it changed? And are there any
responses and measures that you have in mind for the Chinese market?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer `Well, thank you very much. I would like to respond to the first question, the net operating income
or profit. There was something I did not explain the financial results well enough, so let me come
back and talk about it. We have foreign currency denominated assets, which have been
devaluated because of the weaker yen. For example, we have the U.S. dollars in cash as well as
subsidiaries within the group lending and borrowing from each other, to and from each other in a
dollar-denominated form. In April and September last year and this year's April compared, the
last year's starting line was JPY130 to the dollar. As of end of September last year, JPY150 to the
dollar because of the depreciation of the yen, meaning that our dollar assets, as we evaluate that
with yen terms, we inflated that value.
Now this year, JPY151 to the dollar, but that was a starting point. Over the past six months, once it
hit JPY160, it's still fluctuating. Today, it's something like JPY152, JPY142 or JPY143 to the dollar
was the rate in September, so we saw some appreciation of the yen. Last year, yen depreciated,
leading to greater profit and stronger yen this year reduced our operating income. So the total of
that was something like JPY500 billion or JPY600 billion that you have mentioned. Now, it is a
matter of how we look at the assets that we have. To reflect that on our Japanese yen-
denominated PL, does that mean deterioration in our competitiveness in business? No. This is
something that is repeated every year. Something that we experienced as loss this year will be
recorded as the profit next year. So it is the very natural course of fluctuation that we have to live
with in the world of yen and the dollar.
If you're still unclear about it, well, in new forecast, income before tax has been changed as well.
Well, actually, if I repeat the same explanation, it will be a very long lecture, but long term, it's
rather stable. It's only a temporary fluctuation because of the forex. Now, I would like to talk about
China, your second question, rounding up to September, our sales was about 90% of the
previous year. At the beginning of the year, I talked to you about the endurance about the
Chinese market. Well, we really endured and we somehow managed to achieve this level of
sales. And you might have expected a greater drop in profitability, but now compared to Chinese
domestic manufacturers, our level of profitability is on par with them. In the past, we made lots of
efforts, and as a result of that, when the competition was not as intensive, we enjoyed the first-
mover advantage.
But now, with this intensifying competition, we still maintain the competitiveness and profitability
on par with leading domestic manufacturers in China. So that's the current situation. I might have
told you this before. As we look at the needs of the Chinese customers, rather than comfort of
ride, they value the comfort of sitting in the car. Actually, there are large households in China with
multiple generations. So before going home, many drivers would like to enjoy being by
themselves in the car. That's the reason why they look for comfort of being in the car rather than
comfort of riding. The parking lots are limited and smaller, therefore, autonomous driving is of
high demand. So -- and since they want to enjoy their time before going home, they do not want
to run the engines. So that's an interesting demand from the Chinese market as well. And also
the way Chinese drivers drive, we came to learn that, well, as we make cars globally, stability in
high speed in highways is something that you would expect.
But Chinese drivers would not speed very much in highways. We came to understand that quite
recently. So it's not the Japanese manufacturer making cars for Chinese, but probably, it will be
better to enable Chinese people to make better cars for Chinese consumers. That's how we
have made our mindset change. So I'd like you to look at us in that perspective because we are
now making preparations for that. After the time of endurance, we will be rebuilding our
operations, centering around production and also make further efforts in maintaining the
dealership networks. Currently, including our dealership, we do have customers who own our carsand we would like them to remain within our channel. And including the value chain activities, we
will be making further efforts in that direction. I hope I answered your question.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now, let me move to the next person at the front row, in the center of the room, please.
Hayakawa of NHK.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much for this opportunity today. Earlier, Mr.Miyazaki mentioned that in the second
half, on the global basis, you will bring to the production volume pace of JPY10 million. For
domestically, you mentioned that you would like to recover production volume by also pursuing
reserve capacity or (inaudible). And you also talked about China and North America, you see
reduction in operating income. So what is your view and assessment of the U.S. market? And
secondly, the presidential election vote opening is going on and two candidates have different
policy for automotive industry. So how do you intend to address those results, outcome of
presidential election?
A - Unidentified Speaker
About the first question, the North American situation, allow me to respond to that aspect of your
question. At this moment, as we conduct production operations, as far as automotive market is
concerned, we have not noticed, in a straightforward manner, any change in the economic
activities. As mentioned earlier, thus far, we are taking advantage of what we have learned. We
have been continuing lean operation in North America. But because our operation is so lean in
North America as well and since we did have a production hold in Indiana plant, that caused the
sales reduction due to the shortage of inventory as well. So that's one aspect. But as I mentioned
earlier, in October, the Indiana plant started its operation. It is now in the phase of recovering
production volume. Given the current situation in North America, starting in the first quarter of
next year, probably the production volume can be brought up back to the normal level. And so
based upon that, we would like to formulate the plan for the period beyond.
Including North America, we did have certification issues or other things from which we made an
important learning. This may not be the appropriate way of expressing that, but by having good
communication and dialogue with the people working on the worksite, we did stumble once. But
when we tried to bring ourselves up after the stumbling, we would like to stand up by steps
forward compared with where we were. So those were the things we discussed with the
employees on the worksite. And because we stumbled, we looked at a new view or scene as
well. So learning from that, we would strengthen our capabilities and foundation solidly as we
move forward.
The second aspect will be responded to by Ueda-san.
A - `Hiroyuki Ueda, Chief Officer, External & Public Affairs Group `
Your question was relating to our assessment of the outcome of a presidential election. The
voting has been reported since the beginning of this morning and we have been focused on that,
observing that. But the actual outcome of this election will be announced sometime afterwards,mention, at any rate, no matter what the country's policy or the administration may be, as far as
Toyota is concerned, our objective and aspiration is to become the best in town company in that
community or in the country. The energy situation varies from country to country. Customer needs
varies from country to country. So by producing good products that is aligned with the needs and
wants of the customers, we would like to deliver those products in a timely manner.
So this is the basics that we will continue to maintain without any change. In ultimate analysis,
since our products are chosen by various customers throughout the world, but we will continue to
support the movement in mobility, the freedom in mobility of all the people throughout the world
and we would like to continue such business going forward.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. That person wearing a white jacket.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. I am (inaudible) from TV Tokyo. I have two questions to Miyazaki-san.
Number one, as has been mentioned, the investment in people, human resources, in second
quarter financial results, you have struggled. And at this point in time, what is the intention of
increasing your investment in human resources, and also in the United States, reducing the
incentives to achieve this year's forecast. The competition is intensifying in North America as well.
Although you may have been able to maintain or ensure your inventory. Are you very sure about
your profitability with the reduced incentives?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, I would like to respond to your question. Well, I do not think that we have struggled in the
past quarter. 370,000 employees and affiliates of ours worked on Genba, while not being able to
build cars. What are the concerns? What are the pain points? What are the improvements? Even
when we are not making cars, we are making such efforts, taking a step forward each day and
each hour, the efforts to strengthen ourselves, as Miyazaki-san mentioned. And the result is
JPY2,464 billion, excuse me. Actually, this is the very first time that we realized that level of
profitability. So this is a result of Genba force of 370,000 employees as well as our stakeholders.
Now, this investment for human resources, as Miyazaki-san mentioned earlier, if the management
top executives just wait in the meeting rooms, that would not solve the problem. We have to visit
on-site the Genba where pains do exist. That's how we would resolve those pain points and that
is something that we started doing.
Therefore, compared to the numbers initially expected, we now have additional profitability
factor added and that allows us to make further investment in human resources. Not only within
TMC, but with subsidiaries and overseas companies, suppliers. We are applying this mindset to all
of them and the numbers you see is a result of that -- the result of all that. If I may supplement,
for example, if we are to achieve certain numbers this year, are we happy as the management?
The answer is no because we look at 5.5 million people, stakeholders for elevating this
automotive industry in this country. Therefore, investment in human resources is something that
we have made decisions on very, very easily.
Now, as for the incentive reduction in the United States where the competition is getting more
intensive. Other companies are increasing incentives. Well, if we do not follow up, well, there may
be a factor for customers to hesitate to put our products in the shopping cart. So as we make our
plans, we talked with our regional CEOs in terms of their expected sales and we came to our
initial plans for this year. Our product value and strength have not been accentuated in themarket. Therefore, we are now confident that we are able to leverage on such product power
and attractiveness. And if our competitors would watch what we do, they may follow suit.
Therefore, I think we are confident about incentive reduction.
Now, about the U.S. market, hybrid vehicles are attracting more attention. Would that also be a
factor behind reducing your incentives? Well, hybrid, as a matter of fact, this is an area we have to
do a better job of managing inventory. The inventory level is about half of that of conventional
cars and our customers have to wait for the delivery. But of course, it means that our hybrid cars
are extremely popular and the profitability level of hybrid vehicles is greater than that of
conventional cars. So from that perspective, I think we are ensuring our competitiveness. Thank
you.
Thank you very much. At this juncture, I'd like to entertain questions from the participants online
and we'll come back to on-site participants later on. So those of the participants participating
online, please press the raise hand button on your screen. And when we announce your name,
please turn on both the microphone and the video camera. Now, Bloomberg, Inajima-san, please.
Inajima-san, can you be connected? Can you hear me, Inajima of Bloomberg?
Q - Analyst
Yes, we can hear you. The first question, it's been asked earlier. My question also relates to the
North American business. Operating income in the April-September reduced -- decreased
significantly from the same period previous year. Please elaborate on the factors behind that. And
for the second half, you mentioned that you are going to curtail incentives, but what is the
outlook of the operating income for North American market?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, in terms of North American market and the first half and also the July-September, the
reduction in that period was the gist of your question. In North America, to a certain extent, we
had recall, and because of those, the production was halted or there has been some onetime
expenses in this period. Because of that, there has been some significant negative figure you
see. And this may not be the appropriate way of it, but if that is added back and compared with
the capability that we achieved in North America, that capability has been kept. That is to say, the
local workers have continued to work on improvement so that their earnings power has been
maintained even with those issues.
Q - Analyst
The next question that relates to the strategically held equities, Denso and Aisin, some of those
shares have been sold and unloaded, but some group companies do hold substantial shares. So
what is the progress made on discussing with those owners of your shares and to what extent
you are going to address those issues, the disposal of those? And is there any chance of
reducing that ownership to below 20%? And if you have any specific policy of group holdings of
shares, for example, with respect to KDDI, I think you still own 10% or so of KDDI. Do you have in
mind reducing the KDDI shareholdings, for example?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your question. As far as Toyota Group is concerned, the automotive industry covers
the material industry to new technology. So it is the industry where the comprehensive capability
is tested. We announced Toyota's group vision earlier and both WEFT and WAFT, those woven
and Toyota Group consists of those horizontal and vertical lines and that was mentioned byChairman. And the lineage that maintains the future in the past and the future is the vertical fabric
and the working with partners is horizontal. And since this relationship is maintained, there is a
solid relationship between Toyota and other companies are maintained. The relationship with the
group companies is personal relationship, ownership relationship or business relationship. And
based upon those, constantly, we have been conducting conversation and discussion on revision
for days.
So in Aisin, 20%, as was mentioned earlier, has been maintained. And there has been some
change. Given that, are we going to reduce the ownership by other entities within group? That is
not the case. We do not exclude any options, not just insisting on 20% ownership. And in addition
to that, the KDDI or non-Toyota group companies and about the shareholding of those
companies, it's very difficult for us to share with you the cases involving specific companies. But as
we have been mentioning over the years, as we transform ourselves into a mobility company, we
need to replace the assets with the living assets. And those relationship is included in that living
assets. So to make sure that those assets are actually be conducive to growth and we would like
to make sure that we use those assets in that manner. Thank you.
Thank you. Let's come back to the venue from the floor. The person who is wearing a gray
sweater. I am Ikeda from Sankei Daily. My question may overlap with previous questions, but
about strengthening your foundation, as well as a Chinese business. About your efforts to
strengthen your foundation, as Miyazaki-san talked about earlier, you have put in place some
concrete measures and efforts. You also increased investment and expenses for that. So Sato-
san, at the beginning of the year, talked about intentional strengthening of the foundation. So is
this something that you would expect to be completed before the end of the year? I am sure
some activities will continue on, but is this the last year when you invest something like JPY100
billion for that effort? Because in the first half of the year, you have seen some progress. Before
the end of the year, you probably will have completed a major part of strengthening efforts for
your foundation. Is that the correct understanding?
And about your Chinese business, well, competitive domestic manufacturers, you mentioned and
you are par with them in terms of profitability. Now, as a trend, in terms of the profitability, is it
true that you have sort of hit the bottom because the hybrid cars are sold quite briskly in China?
And you also add the battery electric vehicles, what will be the mainstay of your profitability in
your Chinese market, I'd like to learn that, including your outlook for that particular market? Thank
you.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you very much for your questions. Now, as for the efforts to strengthen our foundations,
well, we also expect to increase the expenses for that? Well, actually, I must say, first of all, Kaizen
is endless. Kaizen efforts will continue. But of course, the intensity will change over time. For
example, if we spend some money, are we done? The question is -- the answer is no. Of course,
when our Genba people are thinking about may actually reduce lead times or achieve some
Kaizen with a certain level of investment, it's something that we expect out of our spending.
Actually, the other day when I visited Genba, they were using a very heavy machine tool to do
their work. Well, we may modernize that to replace that with modern, lighter, same functionality
tools. But they could not buy that because of the lack of investment. But then if you replace that,
that work can be done with a shorter time. And now that work can be done by female workers
instead of muscular or male workers. So whatever the ideas that come out of the Genba may
worthwhile making investment because we can expect concrete outcomes. So that's what we
expect to see continuously. I hope you will keep your eyes on our efforts as well.A - Unidentified Speaker
If I may supplement, we would like to build a workplace where people long for working, want to
work. Well, understanding that, we now work on improving the working environment and we
continue investing in human resources so that we can build this environment where people feel
that they would really like to be a part of. And Yamamoto-san mentioned earlier, Kaizen is
endless. But of course, there are priorities and we are starting with high-priority areas and certain
activities will continue next year as well. Otherwise, we won't be able to build that perfect
workplace.
Well, the second point, something that we cannot be too sure about is, well, depending on the
demand in China, there could be some more intensified price competition when the supply
exceeds demand. But we have to be careful not to be engulfed in the price competition. That's
something that we really want to be conscious about when we work in China. But after all, we also
like to be a brand that is chosen by Chinese consumers and that will be our ultimate goal.
Q - Analyst
Now, as for the strengthening of your foundation, as I listen to your responses, do you think these
special efforts will be reduced to ordinary day-to-day Kaizen activities?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, if it happens sooner, that would be better I think because after all, as we look back, we
really did not have a full grasp of the Genba. And every time we visit Genba, there are new
learnings. So this effort of strengthening foundation, I hope will eventually become ordinary
Kaizen activities with enhanced communication with Genba on our part. Thank you.
Many people have their hands up, but the time to conclude this session is approaching, so the
next one will be the final, last question. The second row from the front, please.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. (inaudible) Economic Journal, Katsumata is my name. I also have two
questions that I'd like to ask. And I may be asking the question that was already asked, but my
question relates to the investment in human resources. And you mentioned that you will be
increasing the spending, including those in suppliers. But for covering the entire supply chain,
those initiatives will become truly meaningful. So to what extent has this effort permeated
through those supply chain overall? What are the remaining challenges?
And the second question relates to the domestic production. Earlier, relating to the second half,
you mentioned that you're going to restore or recover the production volume. And the figure for
the second half is JPY1.74 million, which is a significantly high number. Earlier, you talked about a
worksite foundation strengthening, through which you identified many issues you weren't aware
of in the past. But probably you may have been faced with labor shortage or finding difficulty
hiring good people. How are you finding that situation overall?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Allow me to respond to the first question. Already, we have explained publicly many
opportunities. But right now, throughout Japan, the situation remains quite difficult. The material
price increased, the energy price increased and the labor cost increased. So including that, if
Toyota is the only company surviving, automotive industry will lose its sight. And therefore, wewould like to make sure that the conditions will remain strong for the entire industry. With those
suppliers with which we have direct business relationship, we are trying to identify what are the
challenges they are faced with, what are the pain points. We are carrying out those
communications on one-by-one, face-to-face. Aligned with the situation of each supplier, we are
providing support to them. But at the same time, automotive industry has a very broad supplying
industry. And therefore, Toyota alone, working hard, cannot lead the entire industry.
And therefore, with the Japan Automobile Manufacturer Association and also Japan Automobile
Sales Manufacturer working with us to Tier 1 companies and also from Tier 1 to Tier 2, with the
cooperation of Japan Automobile Parts Manufacturers, we are carrying out activities that could
result in the happiness of all 5.5 million people engaged in automotive industry. The issue here is
that those initiatives and activities must be continued indefinitely. So there are various difficulties,
but we would like to transform this into the sustainable activities that the entire industry can
engage in.
Allow me to respond to the second question. It's not that this is the concrete measures to
address the challenges would suffice. That's not the case. Not just Toyota, but including suppliers,
there are certain issues that the automotive industry as a whole should address the issue, to
overcome the issue. And for us to be allowed that through automation and also creating the
worksite where anyone can make their jobs done, we need to reduce the number of people
required to be hired. And also that should also result in suppliers to be able to hire the necessary
human resources so that the operation can be maintained for the entire supply industry and
automotive industry.
In the context of a worksite foundation strengthening, by having solid communication with the
Genba and looking after those people working on site and helping suppliers strengthen their
foundation, we've been able to enhance the retention level of those workers. And therefore, for
the second half, I think we now have the outlook that we'll be able to achieve the figure that we
set for the second half. But we shouldn't be complacent at this juncture. We must make sure that
we make the environment in a situation where people will find it attractive to work at Toyota and
wanting to work at Toyota. And for us to be able to do that, voices from Genba, the employees
and also suppliers. Through those, we would like to invest in human resources as well as the
growth area investment that are needed.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much for your questions. We would like to conclude the QA session. The speakers
will now leave the podium. This concludes today's media briefing on our financial results. Thank
you very much once again for being with us today.