Q3 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q3 2024 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) Please
limit yourself to one question and return to the queue for any follow-up. A recording of the
conference call including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly after the call
ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Ms.`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, madam.
`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you so much. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining our Q3
2024 earnings call. The information presented today contains forward-looking statements that
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. These may cause actual results
to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or
implied by such statements. For a description of some of these factors, please refer to the
company's Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly results on Form 6-K that respectively were
filed with and furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
And with that, I will hand the call to Vas.`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sloan, and thanks, everyone, for joining today's webcast.
So, we'll dive right in. I have `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer on the line with me as well, as always. So, moving to Slide
4. You saw this morning that Novartis delivered strong operational performance in quarter three,
really continuing now what's been two years of very strong operating performance for the
company. Sales grew 10%. Core operating income was up 20% in constant currencies. In the
quarter, our core margin went all the way up now to 40.1%. And we also had important innovation
highlights, which we'll talk about a bit more over the course of the call. Kisqali's FDA approval and
CHMP positive opinion in hormone receptor positive HER2 negative Stage II and III early breast
cancer. Our Fabhalta accelerated approval in IgA nephropathy.
Pluvicto had its filing accepted for the PSMAfore population in metastatic castrate-resistant
prostate cancer. And then we expect the Scemblix approval in the coming weeks. We received
FDA priority review for first-line CML. And lastly, and importantly, we had our third guidance raise
for the year, raising both our top and bottom-line guidance. And Harry will go through that in
more detail. So, moving to Slide 5. Quarter three growth, again, reflected strong performance
across our key growth drivers. You see 34% constant currency growth, which we expect to
continue and help drive our 5% guide out to 2028, and also enable us to continue that strong
margin expansion that you've seen.
And let's go through each one of these brands in more detail. So, moving to Slide 6. Entresto
sales continued to climb as they have now for multiple years, increasing 26% in quarter three. It's
the 10th year now of continued momentum on this brand, which I think really shows our ability to
create large and lasting cardiovascular medicines. 25% TRx growth, 20% NBRx growth, 500,000
TRxs per month. Ex-U.S., we're growing 26%. So, we're confident in the growth up to the LOE. We
have strong guideline positions in the U.S. and EU. We continue to see very strong performance
and hypertension in China, in Japan. We don't expect an LOE in Japan until 2031 at the earliest,
and we continue to see protection for our business in China.
For forecasting purposes, we maintain our guidance of the LOE for Entresto in the United States
for mid-2025. And in the EU, regulatory data protection would expire in November of 2026. So,
moving to Slide 7. Cosentyx grew 28%, and this was primarily driven by the strong performance
we've had in our new launches in HS and in the IV formulation. You can see 28% growth overall
but driven by very strong performance in the United States of 38%, outside the U.S., 16% in
constant currencies. We remain the number one IL-17 in the U.S. dynamic market and we're the
leading originator biologic now in the EU and in China. In HS, we've achieved dynamic market
leadership with over 60% NBRx share.
In Germany, we're at over 50% and we increasingly secured reimbursement in our key market.
So, we see the opportunity to continue to grow dynamically in HS. We think we have an
outstanding data profile, even versus the incoming competitors, and we also see an opportunity
for a market that's going to continue to expand, a market that's probably $3 billion plus today but
has the potential to be a $5 billion plus market over time or even larger depending on how
patients continue to see their physician. In the IV, we had accelerated adoption in the U.S. with
over 1,250 accounts now ordering. That's a 52% growth. I think we'll continue to see more sales
delivery in IV now that we have the permanent J-code, but that of course will take time, and we
look forward to delivering that.
We have two important LCM opportunities that will lead out in 2025 in polymyalgia rheumatica as
well as in giant cell arteritis, both sizable indications that could give us even further opportunity towell exceed Cosentyx's $7 billion peak sales forecast. Now moving to Slide 8. Kesimpta continue
to see strong demand globally and it's a unique profile that this medicine provides for patients
and physicians. So, 28% growth, but when you strip out the one-time RD adjustment that we had
from a European market last year, our sales growth was 56% in constant currencies. We now have
over 100,000 patients treated worldwide with either naive or first switch. Within U.S., our growth -
- TRx volume growth was 38% versus prior year, gaining 3.7% share.
Ex-U.S., we had strong underlying growth excluding the one-time RD adjustment from last year.
We also presented some important new data at ECTRIMS in the ALITHIOS trial. 90% of first-line
Kesimpta patients had no disability progression independent of relapse activity up to six years
and we had an additional study that demonstrated no new active lesions 12 months after
switching from an anti-CD20 IV therapy. So, we remain confident in the continued momentum on
this brand. We're annualizing now well above $3 billion and have the opportunity, I think, to well
exceed our $4 billion peak sales guidance to date. To our knowledge, there are no Kesimpta
biosimilars currently in clinical development, which should give us the long runway looking forward
for this medicine.
Now moving to Slide 9. Kisqali continued to cement its leadership in metastatic breast cancer and
launched importantly in early breast cancer, as I mentioned. But perhaps most importantly, we
achieved a Category 1 NCCN guideline recommendation for the full Kisqali population. Overall
growth in the quarter was 43%. U.S. is up 50%. It's really gaining widespread adoption. Our NBRx
share at 48%. We're now second in TRx share overall. We have over 7,000 patients now --
physicians now actively prescribing Kisqali and I think reflecting our strong guideline position.
Outside of the U.S., 36% constant currency growth as the preferred CDK4/6 inhibitor in the class.
We're leading -- have a leading share of 43% in those international markets. Those are the
fastest growing CDK4/6 in Europe. Now as I mentioned, the FDA approved Kisqali with a broad
label fully in line with the NATALEE population. CHMP has issued a positive opinion and we're
looking forward to a European commission approval to allow us to launch in Europe the Kisqali. If
you go back to Slide 9, the Category 1 guideline recommendation for the full study population, I
believe, gives us the opportunity now to really fully realize the potential of this medicine, including
a node negative patient. In the early -- early feedback we're getting from the market is very
strong.
The early scripts we're seeing show a very strong trend and we look forward to now building
upon that as we get broad access for this medicine. We would expect access in the early breast
cancer setting in the range of 90%, which is what we have for Kisqali in the metastatic setting.
Now moving to Slide 10. As a reminder, Kisqali showed a really strong deepening benefit in the
update that we showed at ESMO. When you look at the graph on the left, across the intention to
treat population, as well as Stage II and Stage III patients, as well as a node negative disease and
a really strong four-year iDFS absolute benefit, benefit that's consistent, consistent also across
secondary endpoints.
We have a trend of improved OS, which we expect to continue to deepen over time. No new
safety signals were identified. So, overall, we think we now have really the perfect positioning that
we would want for Kisqali to succeed in the long run. As a reminder, the early breast cancer
indication doubles the number of patients that are eligible for Kisqali versus the metastatic
indication. And we estimate it is a 3x larger population than is currently labeled for the competitor
product in the class in early breast cancer. Now moving to Slide 11. Pluvicto continued where we
would characterize a steady performance in the post-taxane setting.Our focus at the moment is really laying the foundation for the PSMAfore launch in 2025, which
would triple the number of patients eligible for Pluvicto. We saw 50% growth in the quarter. When
you adjust for the one-time price adjustment in Europe, our sales growth grew 36%. Just to
provide more context, that was true volume growth that we had in earlier quarters. As is always
the case in certain European markets, our prices get adjusted over time. So, that was the reason
for the uplift we saw in Europe. Overall, we would expect quarter four to be broadly in line with
quarter three, excluding the RD adjustment. And I think for us now, it's really about preparing the
market for Pluvicto PSMAfore opportunity.
Our U.S. field force has now expanded. We've launched a DTC to drive HCP and patient
awareness. We now have 530 treatment sites in the U.S., which we feel like covers the key
geographic areas. We will continue to expand that over time quite significantly, but we feel
comfortable that we have capacity now to fully support the Pluvicto PSMAfore launch, and we'll
expand deeper into the community setting step by step. Our ex-U.S. launch is progressing well
with good pricing and reimbursement discussions. And so, we feel very good about where we
are to prepare for that launch next year. Now in terms of new indications and geographies, the
PSMAfore filing was accepted by FDA. We're preparing for a launch in the first part, first half of
2025.
In China, both the post-taxane and in Japan, the pre and post-taxane submissions have
happened. We're in the midst of building up manufacturing facilities in both of those markets as
we expect them to be sizable opportunities. The PSMAddition and PSMA-DC studies are
progressing according to plan. And we've also begun construction of two additional facilities in
the U.S. to support our expanding RLT portfolio, which now includes multiple additional programs
that have entered the clinic, including assets such as a B7H3 Actinium RLT, as well as a HER2 RLT
and a folate RLT, all of which now either have first patient first visit or will soon have first patient
first visit, giving us a broad portfolio that we need to now prepare for.
Moving to Slide 12. Now Leqvio continued its strong growth trend with accelerating adoption
outside of the U.S., and we're very pleased by both the solid U.S. performance, but that
acceleration that we're seeing in our international markets. We have continued growth that's
outpacing the overall advanced lipid-lowering market. 4,600 facilities have ordered Leqvio, which
is a substantial increase for its prior year. We see demand increasing across all channels. And I'd
say our targeting strategy in the U.S. to really focus on patients and physicians that are treated in
the post-event setting where there's a high propensity to add an additional lipid-lowering therapy
has worked really well.
Now outside of the U.S., we're reimbursed in 39 countries, commercially available in 73. And as I
said, we're seeing steady and strong uptake, particularly in markets such as Japan, where we
recently launched, and our launch is well exceeding our expectations. Now adding to the overall
Leqvio body of evidence, we did read out the V-MONO trial, which demonstrated superiority as
Leqvio monotherapy in both placebo and ezetimibe -- versus placebo and ezetimibe in LDL-C
reduction, and we are looking over time to think about how we can further expand Leqvio into the
monotherapy or frontline indication, depending on the geography.
So, moving to Slide 13. Scemblix grew 72% in quarter three. As you know, it has really become the
preferred option for third-line CML. It's the market leader in NBRx and TRx across geographies
with 26% TRx share growth. That's driven by 18% quarter-over-quarter demand. Outside of the
U.S., we see a very strong sales trajectory for the product with total market share -- a growing
total market share and growing prescriber base. And that's critical for us to continue to build that
strong base in third-line because as we approach the first-line launch, those physicians get moreand more comfortable with the overall profile of Scemblix. So, as I mentioned, we have FDA
priority review. We do expect the approval in the coming weeks. We're fully prepared for launch.
We're also fully prepared to obtain rapid market access to really ensure a rapid launch in the U.S.
and eventually around the world. And outside of the U.S., China and Japan submissions have now
been completed, and we're also on track for a European submission in 2025. So, moving to Slide
14. Fabhalta, it's early days, but we were pleased by the performance in PNH, ultra-rare disease,
not a lot of cycling of these patients. So, it will take time to build this brand, but as the only
monotherapy -- oral monotherapy to provide extravascular and intravascular hemolysis control,
we're seeing strong launch performance overall. We see a high compliance and continuation rate
on the medicine.
We have over 70% coverage to label. We have NBRx now of over 30%. And outside of the U.S. as
well, we're seeing solid early signs of success with good patient activation with over 1,000 HTPs
now reached in the first three months post-launch. We're seeing utilization across naive and
switch patients. We also have recent launches in Japan, UK, and we were granted early access as
well in France. So, taken together, early days, but step-by-step, this is an important building block
as we build Fabhalta across multiple indications to be over a $3 billion plus medicine over time.
And moving to Slide 15. In addition, Fabhalta received the accelerated approval in the U.S. as the
first and only complement inhibitor in IgA nephropathy.
That was based on the positive interim results of the APPLAUSE Phase 3 study. The study is
continuing to the confirmatory endpoint of EGFR at 24 months. We expect a completion date in
2025. We see very positive HTP feedback on the efficacy and safety and an understanding of the
role of the complement pathway in this disease. We also see important early signs from a
utilization standpoint. Over 1,000 HTPs are now REMS certified, and we're leveraging our
portfolio to ensure that we have broad and quick access for this medicine. Perhaps most
importantly, we're seeing patients with --positioning of this medicine for patients with persistent
proteinuria and glomerular inflammation as really getting traction in the marketplace.
And that's enabling us to maintain the price of Fabhalta consistent with the PNH indication, which
will also be important for the subsequent indications that we have for Fabhalta, including C3G.
And if we go to the next slide, Slide 16. We released results over the weekend of the 12 month of
pure C3G data at ASN. On the left-hand side, you see the sustained proteinuria reduction over 12
months, and that that was replicated in the placebo arm after switch to iptacopan. So, that was a
very positive and something the regulators had asked us for. But importantly as well, we're
seeing stabilization of the EGFR slope versus the historic slope decline, and that's been
maintained now for 12 months. So, we're seeing on the important outcome measure as well, very
positive data.
So, we have ongoing health authority reviews in the EU and other countries, and we expect to
make this submission now in the U.S. before the end of the year. So, moving to Slide 17. Overall,
we had good progress on our innovation milestones. We did suffer a few setbacks with XXB. We
will terminate this program. We saw a safety signal in heart failure. And overall, the hypertension
blood pressure reduction we saw on top of standard of care was not sufficient to meet the TPP
we think we need to achieve for this medicine. So, we'll be stepping back and focusing on our
siRNAs for hypertension as well as other assets we have in our cardiovascular portfolio.
So, with that, let me hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `I will now talk you through our financials for the third quarter and the first nine months, which were
very strong. As always, my comments refer to continuing operations and growth rates in constant
currencies, unless otherwise noted. On Slide 19, it's a pleasure to present results like those that
we have on Slide 19. I think you'll hopefully agree with that. Quarter three, net sales grew 10%,
core operating income was up 20%. Our core margin, as Vas already mentioned, 40.1%, which
reflects a 340 basis point improvement versus prior year. Core EPS was $2.06, also up 20%. And
free cash flow was basically $6 billion, the highest we have ever achieved in any one quarter.
For nine months, net sales grew 11% and core operating income was also up 20% when the -- and
the core margin increased to 39.4% in the first nine months, demonstrating continued good or
very good progress towards achieving our mid-term margin guidance of 40% plus by 2027. Core
EPS was $5.83, up 21%. And the free cash flow in the first nine months grew 15% to $12.6 billion.
Now on to the next slide, please. Our continued strong business momentum together with
operating efficiencies despite the many launches we are fully funding, and of course, the R&D
pipeline allowed us to once again raise our full year guidance on both top and bottom-line, which
you will see on Slide 20.
We now expect sales to grow low double-digits from high single to low double-digits previously,
and we expect core operating income to grow in the high-teens from mid to high-teens
previously. Embedded in our guidance is the key assumption that there will be no Tasigna,
Promacta or Entresto U.S. generic entries in 2024 and we also expanded a bit so that you can
start with the modeling for next year, and we make an assumption that these generic entries in
U.S. will happen in the middle of 2025 for forecasting purposes. And to complete our full year
guidance, as always, the other two components from a core op income down to basic core EPS,
please note that we expect core net financial expenses to be around $0.7 billion for the full year
and our core tax rate continues to be around 16.2%.
Moving to Slide 21. We remain committed to our shareholder-friendly capital allocation strategy to
invest in the business whilst also returning attractive shareholder returns. In the first nine months,
we executed multiple bolt-on M&A and BD&Ls particularly to strengthen our RLT platform, our
renal pipeline and AI capabilities in addition to having invested of course in our internal R&D
engine. In terms of returning capital to shareholders, we paid our growing annual dividend of
CHF1 per share this time $7.6 billion in March of this year and we also continued our $15 billion
share buyback, which has approximately $8 billion left to be executed by the end of 2025.
Now on to my final slide already where we have outlined details regarding the expected currency
impacts. In quarter three, FX had a mild negative 1 percentage point impact on net sales and
negative 3% points on co-operating income, of course, driven by, one, by the dollar
strengthening, but also, of course, on the bottom-line due to our Swiss franc cost base. If late
October rates were to prevail for the remainder of 2024, we would expect the full year currency
impact to be, again, around 1% negative on net sales and negative 3 percentage points to 4
percentage points on core operating income.
As we already start to look forward into 2025, again, to inform your modeling assumptions, we
expect a negative 1 percentage point impact on net sales and negative 2 percentage points on
core operating income, again, if currencies stay for next year where they are right now. Of
course, as we all know, currencies move every minute. And so, we will, given it's hard to predict
this from outside of the company, each month, in the middle of the month, we will give you an
update, which is posted on the website so you always have that element of the forecast as well.
And so, thank you for your interest, of course, and back to you, Vas.`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Harry.
So, moving to Slide 24. In summary, we see continued strong business momentum in the quarter,
and I think the numbers speak for themselves, the 10% and the 20% growth. We've raised our full
year 2024 guidance for the third time, just showing the underlying momentum we're seeing
across our growth drivers and new launches. We continue to deliver on our pipeline, building off
of 10 Phase 3 readouts and positive Phase 3 readouts with indication expansions of Kisqali,
Fabhalta, and the submission of Pluvicto PSMAfore, and we're well on track to achieve our mid-
term guidance of 5% sales growth '23 to '28 and 40% plus core operating income margin by
2027.
So, moving to my last slide. We also wanted to just flag for all of you, we will have a meeting of
Novartis management on November 20 and 21 in London. It will be a great opportunity for our
investors to meet our leadership teams across the company with a focus on our TA leaders in
R&D. We'll also be able to provide an update on our '23 to '28 mid-term guidance as well as a '24
to '29 sales guidance as well. And then lastly, we'll also provide an update on the peak sales
outlooks for many of our brands, which continue to have really strong momentum.
So, with that, operator, we can open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now go to your first question. And your first question
comes from the line of `Richard Foster, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Foster, J.P. Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. It's a question on the impact of coverage gap reform on the
business in '25, and particularly thinking about the impact on Cosentyx and Entresto. If you could
give us any color on how that's panning out, that would be great. Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Richard. And I also want to add we should have one question. Thank you for
adhering to that already, Richard, but one question per person. And then we'll cycle through the
list as many times as we can. So, in terms of the coverage gap reform, there's going to be
pushes and pulls which we'll have to understand better over the course of 2025. On the positive
side, we'll see how demand generation increase with the 20% out of pocket cap, especially
depending on how many patients sign up for the smoothing, you could see that those impacts
happening relatively early in the year. But that's something we'll have to see how it ultimately
plays out on the positive side.
In terms of headwinds, certainly our cost sharing within the system will go up. And that's
something we'll have to manage. But on the flip side, our patient support programs also should
be adjusted down, given the number of patients who would qualify -- would not no longer qualify
given adjustments given the IRA being in place. So, net-net, we see this as neutral to slightly
negative, but that's already factored into the guidance that we've given for the long run. So,that's already in the 5% out to '28, so a material impact on how we look at the business. And I
think we're going to learn more over the course of the year.
Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I'll ask one on Pluvicto. I was just wondering when you'd expect
some of these new commercial efforts to have an impact on Pluvicto patient growth in the U.S. in
the VISION population, or should we more expect sales to really start to grow again once
PSMAfore is launched? I believe earlier in the year you said that that launch would be an inflection
in sales. So, any color you can provide would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Emily. So, in terms of the timelines for those investments, we started the DTC in
September. We got the full field force out really in the August-September timeframe. So, usually
takes six months before you see any impact for those expansions and investments. So, I think for
us right now, we want to maintain the VISION population. We always guided VISION to be about a
$2 billion peak sales globally. So, in the U.S., we're already annualizing in that kind of $1.2 billion to
$1.4 billion range.
We expect as we bring China, Japan and other markets on board, we can reach that $2 billion
over time. But the real inflection for this medicine is the tripling of the patient population with
PSMAfore and then a further larger a further large addition of additional patients with the HSPC,
PSMA addition studies.
So, we've got to make sure that we have adequate capacity, which we feel pretty good about in
terms of bed capacity. A lot of our work now is getting the referral systems in place to ensure
that community oncology understands how they can refer, when to refer to be able to get
Pluvicto and get those patients also then back to community oncology, also making sure that
large academic centers are prepared for what we expect will be a surge of patients on the
approval of PSMAfore. So, all of that work is very much in focus, but I wouldn't expect a significant
inflection point before we get PSMAfore fully launched.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Florence Espadas from Bernstein. Please
go ahead.
Q - Analyst
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick one on 2025. I know it's
early days and you won't provide any guidance, but could you remind us which are the main
tailwinds and headwinds for next year and how you see this challenging year given the generics
expected to be launched mid-2025? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yes. Thanks. Thanks, Florence. Obviously, we don't provide guidance till January, but I can say
we're confident we'll grow top and bottom-line, and we'll provide more color on that obviously in
January. When you think about the tailwinds that we have, it's clearly the new indications and
launches. I mean, you've already seen Cosentyx is continuing to have strong performance in HS
and IV. We of course have now the Kisqali, early breast cancer with a broad label and a broad
MCCN guideline. We're in the early days of the iptacopan launch, but the iptacopan launched
both in TNH and IgAN, we expect to accelerate over the course of next year.
Importantly, the Scemblix first-line launch in CML will continue to allow us to expand that drug
hopefully substantially. And then, of course, Kesimpta, you've seen, is already on just a steady,
strong pace and Kisqali in metastatic breast cancer also in a really strong pace. And then Entresto
outside of the U.S., also with continued strong performance. I mean, I think the biggest headwinds
we're going to have, as we noted, is the LOEs that we currently forecast for forecasting purposes
for mid of next year on Tasigna, Promacta and Entresto.
Of course, it depends on how those ultimately all the various litigations go and whether products
are approved, et cetera, but that's our current forecasting guidance on those medicines. But
beyond that, we see continued opportunities for strong margin performance, strong free cash
flow performance. We feel very good with where the business is. So, I think we can navigate that.
And as we said all along, we factor those patents or those LOEs into that 5% plus guidance up to
'28. So, it's well-captured in our long-term guidance and we'll navigate it and continue to grow the
company strongly.
Next question, operator.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Florence.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Redburn and Atlantic Equities from Redburn Atlantic. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn and Atlantic Equities `
Thank you for taking my question. One on Cosentyx and HS, if I may. You've seen a very, very fast
adoption in HS, which is testament to the superiority of Cosentyx over previous treatment
options. But there were quite a few behind Cosentyx coming into HS. So, I just wondered if you
could update us on your thoughts on the competitive dynamics there. How long do you expect
that preeminence of Cosentyx to persist, bearing in mind what is coming behind over the next 12
to 18 months? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, look, we -- Simon, thanks for the question. We continue to expect Cosentyx to be
over a $1 billion plus in HS. And the reasons we have that conviction, as you noted as well, there's
a tremendous support for Cosentyx amongst dermatologists. We're very comfortable using this
medicine given the long period of time that it's been on the market and successfully used. But
the other thing is I think there's confusion in the market in terms of the comparison of Cosentyxto the IL17 AF in psoriasis versus what at least we see in HS. Importantly, in HS, when you look at
the HiSCR 50, you have pretty comparable results.
Cross-trial comparisons are always, of course, challenging, different patient populations. So, you
have to be taken with appropriate caution, but very similar. And then when you look at flares, in
our study, we had 60% of patients free of flares.
And in pain, we showed a meaningful reduction of 50% for these patients in pain. I would
encourage the investor base to look at that data versus the competitor entry. And I think that
would enable us to have really a strong clinical positioning on top of the strong account
positioning and long history that we have. So, then really the focus is in a growing market with
additional patients who hopefully will come in, can we continue to maintain a strong share
position given that data, given our access position, which is why we think -- because HS will be a
really substantial opportunity for the medicine. But I think that distinction between psoriasis and
HS data is absolutely crucial for everyone to understand.
Next question, operator.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn and Atlantic Equities `
Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Great. Thanks. Question on Pluvicto. So, the flat fourth quarter guide implies no growth ex-U.S. as
well as in the U.S. So, I understand U.S. centers are pretty fully penetrated in the VISION
population, but why no growth ex-U.S.? And on PSMAfore, just wonder why you didn't use a
proprietary voucher or attempt to accelerate the review there in any way. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Graham. So, on Pluvicto, so I think ex-U.S. right now, we do continue to see growth
generation. But of course, with the pricing dynamics, as we continue to work to secure the final
pricing, we don't expect that to translate yet into revenues. And then I think China and Japan will
be absolutely critical to really get the ex-U.S. going. In Europe, we're primarily focused in Germany
and France, and we have ongoing negotiations in those markets regarding the pricing situation.
So, I think that's why we want to be realistic and say, in addition to that dynamic, we also have the
holiday period in the U.S. we know from prior years that for Pluvicto, Thanksgiving and the
Christmas holidays is not a time that patients want to initiate therapy because post-dose, they
can't be around family, be around children, at least that's the current guideline, whether
biologically sensible or not, the relevant, that's the current guidance.
So, that leads to a few weeks that we lose in quarter four always. So, taken all of that together,
we think it's reasonably and prudent to provide a guidance that will be in line net of the
adjustment. Now in terms of Pluvicto PSMAfore, we chose not to use a proprietary review voucher
purely because we had discussions with the FDA. The FDA view was given that we'll provide a
100% OS during the review period, they wanted flexibility for the timing to review that data. Now
hopefully, given that data continues to trend positive, that assuming that holds and that we havea very compelling package, we hope that we can get an approval on a faster timeline than the
typical PDUFA timeline. But in consultation with the FDA, that was their request since we didn't
use the voucher.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you very much. My question is about payer dynamics in 2025 as well. Vas, I'm just aware
that you have a very strong position in immunology and commercial PBMs have lost a significant
amount of rebates from Humira over the course of this year. I wonder whether we should expect
a particularly strong and dynamic rebate environment at the beginning of 2025, and we should
be prepared for that as we look at the forecast into next year. If I can cheekily sneak a second, it's
just can you remind us factually, when do you anticipate Kisqali ex-U.S. patent expiry?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew. So, first on Cosentyx and the overall immunology dynamic, we've completed
largely our payer negotiations, and we're really pleased with the broad access we've been able
to maintain for Cosentyx. And I would say while we do see increased rebates, it's modest and not
substantial. So, we've been able to keep that as a single-digit increase overall across the
portfolio. So, we shouldn't expect -- well, of course, that is a headwind. We do expect overall the
opportunities in HS and IV alongside the opportunities that we have in -- with additional launches
as well as the overall momentum we have globally, that globally Cosentyx should continue to
grow in the double-digit range.
And so, that's our current expectations for Cosentyx. Now in terms of Kisqali LOE, it is August
2032 is our current estimate in Europe.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you for taking my question. I've just got a quick one on Xolair. So, Vas, you've seen
some strong uptake in the U.S. for the food allergy indication. Does Novartis plan to use the data
from the OUtMATCH trial to potentially file for the indication in the Novartis territories? And what
would you think about the potential opportunity here? Obviously, there's a big discontinuity in
natalizumab [ph] in this indication as well. So, does that leave a potential clear run for you on
Xolair in Ex-U.S. markets? Thank you.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, James, I'd have to come back to you. I don't actually know off the top of my head on
what our plans are on Xolair for ex-U.S. food allergy. Obviously, in the U.S., we have our existing
contractual obligations with Roche Genentech. In general, my first instinct to say is food allergy
ex-U.S. is challenging, given the overall payer dynamics, particularly in Europe, but let us come
back to you because I don't want to make that a definitive statement without knowing for sure.
We do continue to develop remibrutinib as an oral option in food allergy, and we're going to see
how that data pans out because we think the option of giving patients the twice-a-day oral
therapy for food allergy could be quite attractive. So, that development program is continuing on
track.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Jefferies & Company from Jefferies. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies & Company `
Hello. My question is on the broader cardiovascular portfolio now at Novartis, particularly focusing
on the pipeline. And obviously, we're aware of pelacarsen, which I wonder if you can confirm.
We're still expecting the Phase 3 readout there next year. But obviously, following the news on
XXB, when you now look at the late-stage cardiovascular portfolio outside of nephrology, I guess
how do you now think about the need perhaps in Novartis to bolster that, or are you comfortable
given the long life that we see still with Leqvio ahead, despite the loss of interest in the U.S. that
you will basically just build the cardiovascular pipeline largely internally and through the early stage
Phase 1 preclinical programs that you have? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Peter. So, obviously, disappointing with XXB. But overall, we feel confident. Given
where we see Leqvio's continued expansion and the adjustments we've anyway made to the
field force, we think we're right-sized for Leqvio. Pelacarsen on track. It's event-driven. So, we'll
have to continue to track the events, but we currently guide to a 2025 readout. And then behind
that right now, we're really focused on accelerating our siRNA portfolio. Those siRNAs could
either be as mono indications or in combination with Leqvio. So, we're exploring a range.
And we have now a couple in Phase 2 or one that's even a bit later than that. So, we'll be
providing updates on those over time. But certainly, siRNAs in hypertension, siRNAs against HMG
CoA, which could be then used in combination or independent of Leqvio, as well as other earlier
Phase 1 siRNAs are all advancing.
So, we continue to want to build out a broad siRNA portfolio and then also look as appropriate for
combinations with Leqvio. The other element, two elements of our story, I think, on
cardiovascular. One is a portfolio of agents in arrhythmia, high-risk -- very high-risk, but we're
relatively on our own in arrhythmia. And so, we have a few agents now in Phase 1 or proof-of-
concept studies. So, we'll certainly see how those ultimately play out. And then we have,
obviously as all companies do, a broad preclinical portfolio, but including preclinical efforts on
novel targets in obesity as well as in other areas of cardiovascular risk reduction, particularly
around nephrology. So, we'll see how those advance as well. So, obviously we'll always look
externally, but there's no urgency to plug any gaps at this point.Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Etzer Darout, BMO Capital Markets from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Etzer Darout, BMO Capital Markets `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. I had a question on pelacarsen readout next year for Lp(a)
and apologies if you've commented on this in the past. Just curious, there's literature on the
impact of Lp(a) on GLP-1 levels, but curious as to the reverse. And I guess given the increasing use
of GLP-1s broadly, just curious if GLP-1 use matters in this study, and if so, how you're accounting
for its use in the trial? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, absolutely. So, I think GLP-1s are noted to have, I think, modest reductions of Lp(a). I mean,
the focus of this study is on patients that are much higher on the range of Lp(a). So, the top
quartile and the top decile, which we believe you need to have pretty substantial knockdown,
70% to 90% of the Lp(a) levels, 90% plus ideally, that would then enable you to have the hopeful
-- hope for at least the genetically validated efficacy benefit. So, we don't believe GLP1s alone or
PCSK9s alone, PCSK9s also knockdown Lp(a), are going to be sufficient for this patient population
that is at a very high risk of cardiovascular events due to their Lp(a) levels.
In terms of backwards, look, I don't know offhand how many patients were on a GLP-1 at baseline.
But with all of these trials, we always have, of course, patients who are on standard of care for
their various comorbidities. And then of course we would do subgroup analyses based on the
various patient populations. Those would not be powered, of course, and would be post-hoc. But
as always, we generate those horse lot to demonstrate how different patient groups responded
to the medicine. So, that's what I would expect would happen in this case.
Q - `Etzer Darout, BMO Capital Markets `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you for taking my question. Just going back to the theme of M&A, given your strong
balance sheet and a growing patent expiry burden, just interested to hear you talk about your
appetite for more M&A in future here. I wonder if you can comment specifically on your degree of
interest in obesity, you referenced to it. Just send back with regard to your early-stage internal
pipeline, but interest in potentially bolstering that externally. And tied to this, I think somewhat
disappointing that we should see an impairment so soon after the Morphosys deal closure. So,my question then is, how can investors gain confidence in your future M&A choices? Any
commentary you would have there? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Kerry. So, overall, we have, of course, adequate firepower. And as Harry mentioned,
we have a balanced approach to capital allocation, invest in the business, growing dividend in
Swiss francs, ongoing share buyback with adequate capacity to continue share buybacks as
deemed appropriate. And then we've been very active in the deal front, really in the sub $1 billion
asset space. Most of these don't hit the radar, but we've built out, I think, a pretty -- and we'll
outline this in a bit more detail in Meet the Management.
But a really broad range of assets across our key therapeutic areas as well as key technology
areas to fill either mechanism of action gaps or technology gaps, which we think are critical for us
to succeed in those four core TAs or in our three key technology platforms, a great example
being the various deals we've done in RLT, including Mariana Oncology, to build out a strong
actinium profile or even the deal we announced, I think, yesterday with Monte Rosa Therapeutics,
which gives us a strong opportunity within the world of molecular glues for immunology.
I think to guard your specific combination comment question on obesity, no change. We think GLP-
1, GIP, et cetera are well served by the current incumbents and we expect a flood of companies
from China and elsewhere to attempt to enter these spaces. And so, we don't see an
opportunity to really build a differentiated profile, especially given what will likely be a very
intense payer rebate environment in the U.S. as well as genericization of first-line GLP or older
GLP-1 agents over the coming years. So, we don't think that's a game to play in as a fast follower
or late follower, rather focus on novel assets. And I think overall, when we look at our -- I mean,
M&A track record, we've done it very carefully and we systematically look at it. We see our overall
success rate in line with the overall sector. There are companies that are worse than us. There are
a few that are a little bit better than us.
But of course, if you look at the GSK Oncology acquisitions, if you look at Kesimpta, if you look at
building out a strong RLT portfolio, I expect that with AveXis ultimately showing the positive
impact of our intrathecal readout later this year or early next year in the 2 to 18-year-old patients,
that will also be a strong payback. So, obviously whenever you do clinical stage deals like we did
with Full Abrasive [ph], you will have updated clinical data. I think that's normal in this business. I
would expect sophisticated investors not to read too much into one-offs, but rather look at the
overall portfolio of how a company does and executes M&A.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes to the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks so much for the question. So, really just one question to follow-up on business
development and areas of interest. The dynamics and immunology are obviously heating up,
accelerating across bispecifics, long-acting assets, and overall asset development. I wanted to
just ask, I guess, a bit of a blended question, not two, but what the effort with Generate is really
seeking to execute, and if there's an awareness or when we might have the targets potentially
disclosed in that collaboration. And how you're thinking about immunology writ large from a BDperspective simply because we know that Generate is also doing quite a bit there along those
lines? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Seamus. I'll divide my commentary into first AI and then separately into specific
immunology. So, with Novartis, our primary collaboration is with Isomorphic Labs, where we
partner with the Nobel Prize winning team there to really work on novel targets to generate hits
and leads that we can take then further into development. So, that's a collaboration that's
ongoing for small molecules and potentially could expand over time into other areas of drug
development. And then with Generate, we focus on biologics. We have not disclosed the targets
that we're working on.
But generally speaking, it would be difficult to drug targets, or we want novel biologics with novel
formats, as you mentioned, bispecifics, trispecifics, et cetera. So, that's the focus of the Generate
Bio collaboration. And then we're going to learn and see how it goes. As we continue to use AI to
hopefully speed up our research and early development process, we could expand into
additional targets with both of those collaborations over time.
But I think it's early days and I think we need to see the results of those efforts, the first efforts,
and then of course progress step-by-step. I think more broadly in immunology in-house, on top of
remibrutinib and VAY, both of which will have readouts over the course of 2025-2026, which
would allow us to, I think, build two more very substantial medicines to continue to build off of the
success of Cosentyx. We have a number of bispecifics and trispecific programs that are in Phase
1, Phase 2, and then of course we have YTB now in either Phase 1 or Phase 2 development for
immune reset, that's our rapid CAR-T therapy, I think now enrolling in six or seven indications,
continuing to look to expand across immunology, as well as in neuroscience indications.
And so, I think our BD and M&A efforts are either to bolster the areas I just mentioned, bispecifics
or cell therapies, or to look at novel targets like Monte Rosa that we recently have done. Those
are the things I think we're broadly looking at, but I would say we do believe you need to move
now into more specialty immunology, more targeted immunology, going into the mass market
with a number of biosimilars coming out at the end of the decade and high rebate pressure. You
need to really find places where you can have a differentiated offering in the United States,
particularly given that pair dynamic.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC from HSBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. On capital allocation, can you help us
understand how you think between a choice of doing deals versus buying back shares? As in at
what share price of multiples would doing a deal would become the only good use of capital. And
then your share price has been quite strong, if we leave today aside, but if we look at the
earnings momentum, et cetera. At what point, would you stop share buybacks and deploy more
capital towards deal-making?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Vas. Thank you, Rajesh. I mean, it's of course a question that has never had an
absolute answer, right? Obviously, we believe that our share price has much more potential. If I
just look at our five-year growth rate outlook, right, even consensus is not there yet at 5%. Slowly
creeping up every few months, now I think consensus just makes it to 4%. Of course, we keep
that dynamically. In terms of balance sheet and cash flow, we call it firepower so nicely, right? But
anyway, we have such a nice capacity that we have the situation, we can do all M&A bolt-on deals
that we come up with, and by the way, it's not so easy to come up with good ones, right, given
the premiums one has to pay and the high conviction we have to have to have a great deal for
our shareholders, also in terms of returns. And -- but we can do both. We can do bolt-on M&A,
right?
Our net debt is even below 1x EBITDA at the moment with $16 billion, right? EBITDA higher, $18
billion, $19 billion and growing. And so, we have that luxury situation. On the one hand, we keep
doing, I would say, continuous good share buyback at an attractive level. As you may know,
Switzerland has an interesting situation. I think it's unique in the world, that we can only do over
time, right, roughly $10 billion a year max. And on the other hand, do all the bolt-on M&A to
continue to further strengthen our 48 pipelines. And again, obviously, we believe that our share
price has significant upside potential, and that's why we continue to do both for the foreseeable
future. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, TD Cowen from TD Cowen. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen `
Thank you very much. No generics of Entresto and Promacta were already assumed in the 2024
guidance. So, to Tasigna is the only update. What amount of the guidance raise is attributable to
no generics of Tasigna? And it sounds like the extension to 2025 for all three is due to litigation
for to Tasigna and Promacta in addition to Entresto and not slower generic progress and/or
settlement. Is that correct? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Steve, I can take the second part, and I'll give it to Harry on the contribution of Tasigna to the
overperformance. Overall, I mean, we're not going to comment on specific legal cases, but I think
it's a combination of our litigation, our settlements, and our kind of competitive intelligence as to
where various players are and their approvals that gives us the -- our current forecasting estimate
of middle of next year, but that's not a definitive date. It's really going to depend on a number of
factors.
As you know, we have three litigations ongoing with respect to Entresto, with respect to the
approval with FDA, the combination patent where we're appealing the decision and the first
instance hearings on the co-crystal patents. So, that's all unfolding. And then Promacta and
Tasigna, it's not something we've disclosed, but we continue to estimate a mid-2025 and we'll
see how the actual market develops. Harry, in terms of the Tasigna contribution?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you. Yes, Steve.So, it has some contribution. I mean, also on the Q2 call, I mentioned that, if there's no generic
entry, likely we will be at the higher end of our guidance, and that's what has happened now,
right? So, we don't expect any generic or if there's still -- we have a bit of stuff. There's a small
entry in the U.S., but it's only in one account, 10% of business. So, that's very little in terms of
impact modeled this year for Sandoz-Glatt and LAR.
So, there's a contribution of Tasigna to it. We also had some close-to-net favorability in Q3. Prior I
guided to high single-digit, now we came in at 10%. So, there was a contribution that was basically
offsetting prior year favorability at one-timers. But overall, if you look at our business, our model
at the moment is like we have a 14% volume growth, then we have 2 points of generic impact and
1 point of negative pricing, adding up to the 11% year-to-date net sales growth, right?
And that's the model we go into operationally into Q4 as well into next year. And then what is
expected to happen with a generic component goes a bit up, and then a bit of pricing, not too
much, but also partly or fully offset by some volume impacts in the U.S. So, overall, some slight
contribution to getting to the high end. But overall, what we just see at the moment is a fantastic,
continued, very good business momentum. And the only dynamic next year is really when are
these generic impacts happening. But the underlying growth of the portfolio is really excellent.
And that's why we are also very confident in our 5% plus CAGR for '23 to '28.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Harry. I think we have a few more questions. So, operator, we'll continue down
the line.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
I'm trying my luck and squeezing one and a half. The half is a follow-on on pelabresib, just to
understand what has changed versus, as Harry noted, your high conviction at the time of
completing that transaction. And the one is on a next year, it looks like it's going to be a
particularly important offset, some of the potential headwinds you may face. Could you just talk
about the realism of consensus or conservatism of consensus expectations of $4 billion. Is it
realistic to expect you to add another $1 billion sales and are you expecting a gradual increase in
the pace of prescription adoption or some inflection post-NCCN, et cetera? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Emmanuel. On pelabresib, it's nothing new. I think the data was presented in ESMO
and in other settings. This is a medicine that had a safety imbalance that we think has to get fully
resolved prior to being able to use the data for any kind of filing. We need to follow these
patients longer to see how the two arms perform. There is an indication that OS is going in a
positive direction. However, we need to, I think, see this unfold, I think, for a longer period of time
and also determine what additional trials will be required given that safety signal to have a
positive benefit risk. So, that's what we're monitoring and we'll continue to monitor. These things,
I think, happen in clinical development that safety signals emerge and then you have to deal with
them. So, that's, I think, normal course of business in our industry.With respect to Kisqali, I don't think we're prepared here to give additional peak sales guidance.
But we will update our peak sales guidance for Kisqali given -- at Meet the Management. I think
it's pretty clear you can all annualize right now the metastatic indication and where that's heading.
So, that already, I think, is really strong momentum in that area. And then now that we have the
broad label, including node negative patients, as well as the NCCN guidelines and node negative
patients, as well as the positive overall label at CHMP, I think we clearly are very optimistic for the
overall size of this medicine and we'll provide that update at Meet the Management.
I think one more, two -- three more. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Richard Foster, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Foster, J.P. Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my follow-up. Just one on Kesimpta. Just a competitor is rolling out their
subcutaneous formulation. Just thoughts on how that's impacting, are you seeing any impact at
the moment? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Richard. So, we haven't seen, in our experience, impacts to date. We see a steady
overall share -- slightly increased NBRx share. Our focus right now is to capture more of the
growth of the B-cell class as it's been our real focus as the B-cell class continues to grow 60%
plus to hopefully greater and greater proportions of first-line, first switch for MS patients. Most of
the impact that we hear about is primarily to the competitor product within the IV class of these
medicines.
I think given the fact that there is required for a healthcare professional that you need the various
pre-treatments and post-dose monitoring and then you have a pump involved with the subcu
administration, it's not viewed as comparable to the experience of having Kesimpta, which takes
seconds to, or minutes to inject and is relatively straightforward at home administration for
patients.
So, we haven't seen that impact to date. That said, we have to be really diligent, and our teams
are fully prepared to continue to argue for the value proposition. I think outside of the U.S., we
really don't see the impact. I think there we feel very confident that given the structure of those
ex-U.S. markets, there is a preference for when you can get patients out of the medical home
using Kesimpta. So, I think that's a continued -- allowed us to continue to have strong momentum
outside the United States as well.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Great. Thanks for taking my follow-up. So, it's just on the Kisqali patent challenge from MSN, just
thoughts on timelines of ruling from the Delaware court on that. And if MSN was actually
successful in invalidating the patent, just your expected timelines, the resolution of an appeal.And just correct me if I'm wrong, but are you sort of past the stage of settlement here, or is that
would still be -- could that still be an option? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, no updates. Ruling could come at any point. So, we'll continue to monitor that. We are
prepared to immediately follow the necessary injunctions and appeals. And that process can
take, as you know, some period of time. In addition, the -- I think the -- of course the approval has
to also happen. So, there's a number of things here as well. And we think we have some
important elements as well to highlight with respect to that.
And so, I think there's -- I think we're in a good place, but we'll have to see how the ruling
happens. Difficult to say. I mean, I think, without knowing exactly how the courts would time the
various appeal hearings, we would say '26 and beyond. But I think we'd have to see with the
timing of the ruling and the appeals and the hearings to provide more granularity on that.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our final question for today. And the final question comes from the
line of `Matthew Weston, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you, Vas. It's a question about politics and siRNA. So, clearly siRNA as a mode of action is
very important to Novartis. I believe you're very active in the legislation to try and get an
amendment to IRA to extend the life from 9 years to 13 years in terms of government pricing
action. Can you give us any update as to where that legislation is, please?
A - `Victor Bulto, President, US `
Yes, absolutely, Matthew. So, I'll take the opportunity given that nice broad question. And thank
you, Matthew, for your third question today to provide I think a broader perspective as well. So,
first on the IRA which of course is a top priority for the industry. There's a broader desire to and I
think important for public health and of course pipelines and oncology, neuroscience,
cardiovascular disease, indication expansion to get the 9 to 13 small molecule versus large
molecule aberration corrected. And there is legislation tabled currently in Congress to try to get
that broad correction to happen.
I believe now there's bipartisan support in the House for that broad correction. Alongside that,
there's a number of limited fixes that are being proposed by various actors. One of those is the
Mini Act which targets correcting for genetically targeted therapies such as siRNAs, ASOs, et
cetera, and trying to get their definition more in line with what was done in 21st century cures.
That also has bipartisan support in the Senate and the House and a relatively low pay for so that's
also out there as well, actually, a minimal pay for I should say. So, I think now it's much more
moving through the election period, moving through obviously the establishment of a new
session and then trying to get those bills, whichever combination of the various bills that are out
there, there's also efforts to correct the rare disease multiple indication for single indication
situation by a similar definition et cetera. And finding a right context to get those bills put in place
as well as trying to get the broad fix overall for IRA.So, I think all of those efforts are ongoing and a completely separate track are the various
litigations that are ongoing to repeal the IRA. We have one, other companies have them, the
industry overall has one. So, we'll see how that also plays out.
I think it will be in the two-to-three-year period we get more understanding of all of those various
pieces. We continue to of course push for PBM reform in as broad way as we can and also to get
hopefully a more sensible 340-B environment, which is a I think a significant issue for the overall
industry, starting with transparency of who are the patients and what are the centers getting this
money and how is it used for. Those are I think three big priorities for us as a company and overall
for the industry from a legislative standpoint as we move to a new Congress and a new
President.
So, thank you all very, very much. I really appreciate all the great questions and interest. I hope
we'll see all of you at Meet the Management in London. And in the meantime, wishing you all a
very nice autumn. Take care.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.