Q2 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Second Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations
Officer and Senior Vice President. Please go ahead, ma'am.
`Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Senior Vice President `
Good morning, and welcome to Pfizer's earnings call. I'm `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor
Relations Officer. On behalf of the Pfizer team, thank you for joining us.
This call is being made available via audio webcast at Pfizer.com. Earlier this morning, we released
our results for the second quarter of 2024 via a press release that is available on our website at
Pfizer.com.
I'm joined today by Dr.`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and CEO; and `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO. Albert
and Dave have some prepared remarks and we will then open the call for questions. Joining for
the Q&A session, we also have Dr.`Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President, EVP and Chief Oncology Officer; Alexandre deOfficer and President of R&D, Doug Lankler, EVP and General Counsel; and `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President, EVP and
Chief U.S. Commercial Officer.
Before we get started, I want to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements
and discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. I encourage you to read the disclaimers in
our slide presentation, the press release we issued this morning, and the disclosures in our SEC
filings, which are all available on the IR website on Pfizer.com.
Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties, speak
only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the
statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Francesca. Good morning, everyone. We are pleased to report that we've had a
strong first half of the year, and our business is performing well. We drove progress in the second
quarter with solid execution as we continue making a difference in the lives of patients around the
world. Through the first six months of 2024, we reached more than 192 million patients with our
medicines and vaccines.
Today, I will provide updates about how we continued advancing our key strategic priorities in the
second quarter. I will also mention examples from just the past few weeks when we have
achieved a series of regulatory approvals, pipeline advances, and other positive developments
that we expect to fuel our progress through the rest of the year.
We are pleased with the strong financial results coming from our disciplined execution. In the
second quarter, for example, we achieved year-over-year revenue growth for the first time since
the fourth quarter of 2022, when our COVID revenues had reached high levels -- peaked. Dave
will talk about this and additional aspects of our financial performance, as well, of course, our
outlook. And then we will take questions.
Before we go further, I will touch on some recent announcements about our leadership team and
Board of Directors. I'll start with `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development's coming departure. It's hard to find words that do
justice to the substantial impact Mikael has had during his 15-year tenure at Pfizer. Mikael
transformed our R&D engine, ultimately delivering 35 approvals that have been meaningful for
millions of patients globally.
I thank my colleague and my friend for these tremendous contributions to human health. I look
forward to working closely with him over the coming months as we search for his successor. Until
then, Mikael will continue to lead as our Chief Scientific Officer and President of Pfizer Research
and Development.
I want to welcome Andrew Baum, our new Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer. Andrew brings
deep clinical, scientific, and biopharmaceutical sector expertise, and we are fortunate to have him
to help, shape, and guide our strategy. While Andrew is not able to join us today because he is
relocating with his family to the United States, he will be with us for future quarterly calls.
I also want to mention the recent addition of Cyrus Taraporevala to our Board. We are committed
to strong governance supported by Directors with a breadth of unique experiences skills exactly
like Cyrus. Cyrus was President and CEO at State Street Global Advisors until he retired two years
ago, and he brings vast experience in investment management and financial markets. We areNow, I will turn to our performance. The five strategic priorities we shared at the beginning of the
year remain unchanged. With our focus on the most important opportunities for advancing and
strengthening our company, we are confident we remain on track in 2024.
In the second quarter, our colleagues moved our business forward in each key strategic area. As
a reminder, they are achieving world-class oncology leadership, delivering the next wave of
pipeline innovation, maximizing performance of our new products, expanding margins by
realigning our cost base and allocating capital in ways that will enhance shareholder value.
We believe we are well-positioned to continue creating value for our shareholders. I want to
reinforce our commitment to maintaining and growing our dividend over time. And as Dave will
discuss in more detail, we are raising our full-year '24 guidance ranges for revenue and adjusted
diluted earnings per share.
Now, I'll turn to our progress towards achieving the first one, world-class oncology leadership.
Last year, we acted on our bold vision of combining Seagen's transformative ADC medicines with
Pfizer's expertise, innovation and scale. We believe we could help people with cancer live better
and longer lives and capture a differentiated opportunity to drive long-term sustainable growth
for our company. At the halfway mark in 2024, we are on track to make this vision a reality, and
we are pleased with the continued success of our integration.
We've had high rates of colleague retention and acquired Seagen products are contributing
meaningfully to our revenue. In particular, PADCEV is rapidly progressing toward becoming the
standard of care for patients with front-line locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer. We
are pleased with the strength of other key products across our oncology portfolio. XTANDI,
LORBRENA, Braftovi-Mektovi combination, for example, continued as significant growth drivers
during this quarter. Our robust oncology commercial performance in the first half of 2024
included full FDA approval for Tivdak and European Medicines Agency approval for the Talzenna
plus XTANDI combination. We also received positive CHMP opinion for the Braftovi-Mektovi
combination and for PADCEV. The last one is a notable development because Pfizer receives
royalty revenues for these products marketed in Europe by our partners.
These highlights illustrate how we are already delivering breakthroughs that dramatically improve
the lives of people with cancer. Of course, we are also working to develop future breakthroughs
where we have the opportunities to bring the most important new therapies to patients in need. I
will review several recent pipeline highlights, starting with obesity. Earlier this month, we
announced our plans to move forward with development of danuglipron, our oral GLP-1 receptor
agonist that is the most advanced candidate in our robust clinical and preclinical obesity pipeline.
In previously reported results from the Phase 2b study in obesity, danuglipron demonstrated what
we believe is good efficacy in its twice-daily formulation.
For tolerability, we previously reported the maximum rate of GI adverse events across all doses
investigated. Looking at individual dose levels in our Phase 2b study, however, we observed
tolerability profiles that are competitive for the class. Our efforts are now focused on developing
the once-daily formulation essential to delivering a competitive oral product. We were
encouraged by a pharmacokinetic study evaluating multiple modified release technologies and
formulations. This strengthened our confidence in potentially delivering a competitive once-daily
pill at dose levels expected to be efficacacious. We plan to conduct dose optimization studies in
this second half of this year that are intended to inform our registration enabling studies.
Obesity represents a growing area of patients' need, and it is a key area of focus for Pfizer's
R&D program. We believe these study results, along with learnings from our previous Phase 2studies and data that we have accumulated from more than 1,400 participating patients leave us
well-positioned to execute on a registration enabling study as we work to deliver a competitive
product in a rapidly growing market. When we hosted our Oncology Innovation Day in February,
we shared the pipeline milestones that would mark our success over the next year, and we are
already demonstrating progress. A highlight was our strong presence at the American Society of
Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting last month, which was anchored by three positive Phase 3
readouts.
Follow-up data from the Phase 3 CROWN study of LORBRENA in patients with ALK-positive
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer showed 60% of patients on LORBRENA were living beyond
five years without disease progression. This strengthens LORBRENA's position as an emerging
standard of care in the front-line setting.
Data from the Phase 3 ECHELON-3 study of Adcetris in combination with lenalidomide and
rituximab demonstrated a clinically meaningful improvement in overall survival for patients with
relapsed or refractory diffused large B-cell lymphoma. And data from Phase 3 study evaluating an
additional Adcetris combination regimen showed progression-free data in patients with newly
diagnosed classical Hodgkin lymphoma, while significantly reducing side effects compared to a
standard of care regimen used in Europe in this setting.
We have advanced our oncology clinical pipeline in 2024 with Phase 3 studies for sigvotatug
vedotin, our integrin beta-6-directed ADC; atirmociclib, our selective CDK4 inhibitor; Elrexfio in
the second-line setting in relapsed refractory multiple myeloma; and mevrometostat, our EZH2
inhibitor, which we are now moving to Phase 3 and anticipate enrollment beginning in August. We
will continue working towards our 2030 oncology strategy goals on delivering eight or more
blockbuster medicines and doubling the number of patients treated with our innovative cancer
medicine.
We also have momentum with our vaccine programs. In our next-gen PCV candidate, for
example, we have advanced to a Phase 2 program in both adults and pediatrics based on
encouraging clinical data that we receive that highlights our industry-leading capabilities and
expanding valency beyond 20 serotypes. We expect to be highly competitive by offering the
largest serotype coverage in a single vaccine, while strategically addressing the persistent
medical need across invasive disease, antibiotic resistance, and challenging serotypes.
In RSV with ABRYSVO, I'm pleased to report that yesterday we received an approval for
ABRYSVO's ACT-O-VIAL presentation in the United States, a presentation that offers significant
advantages such as never-frozen, unique system-enabling one-step reconstitution, highly valued
by pharmacists. Additionally, we have submitted for label expansion in both the United States and
Europe for adults 18 to 59.
In our malignant hematology programs, we are also driving progress. Last week, we reported
positive results from a Phase 3 study demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our one-time gene
therapy candidate for people with hemophilia A. As we continue to advance our pipeline,
additional milestones include expected updates later this year about our COVID flu combination
vaccine, about marstacimab for hemophilia A and B, and ponsegromab for cachexia, a wasting
disorder associated with chronic diseases.
Now, I'll turn to our strength with the commercial execution of our business. Another strategic
area of focus is protecting and growing our core product portfolio, while we also maximize the
performance of our new products. We continue to see encouraging progress with our team's
execution. NURTEC is an example where we are rising to meet substantial demand. This productdelivered strong results in the quarter with 44% year-over-year global operational revenue
growth. We see additional opportunities for expanding share in both acute and prevention usage
as well as growth opportunities in international markets, where we are making progress with our
launches. I hope Alexandre will be able to touch base on that during the Q&A session.
Now, I will touch on a few additional product portfolio highlights. In the Pediatric segment, Prevnar
20 continues to demonstrate strong performance that reinforces a leadership position among
pneumococcal vaccines in the United States, where our market share grew to greater than 80%.
During this quarter, the performance of ABRYSVO was in line with seasonal vaccine trends. We
remain confident in our full-year performance as we believe we are well-positioned to help
address the expected rising need later in the year among older adults at increased risk for RSV.
LITFULO is a product we launched last year, and we are encouraged by strong demand.
Approximately one out of every two new patients on advanced systemic therapies is receiving a
LITFULO prescription, a position we expect to grow as we continue focusing on execution. We
view VELSIPITY as a promising and much-needed option for adults with moderate to severe
active ulcerative colitis. We are encouraged by recently securing preferred coverage for
VELSIPITY at our first large national payer. We expect to see the impact of this in 2025. And now,
we are working to build on this with additional payers.
When we consider core products in our portfolio, we are also seeing positive impact from strong
execution. The VYNDAQEL family of products offers a good example of how we are making a
difference for patients and our business. We are accelerating growth by working with physicians
to drive improvement in identifying appropriate patients with ATTR cardiomyopathy and helping
patients to access and stay on the therapy once it is prescribed. With strong growth through the
second quarter, we believe there is additional opportunity to identify more patients who could
benefit from our VYNDAQEL products because of high unmet need. It is estimated that nearly
half of those with this progressive and deadly disease have yet to be diagnosed. ELIQUIS was
another significant contributor to our results as we continued to claim greater share in a growing
oral anticoagulant market.
Now, let me briefly wrap up. First, I would like to thank my more than 80,000 colleagues for the
dedication they are showing each day to our purpose of delivering breakthroughs that change
patients' lives. We are confident in our business with our focus and execution, along with our
deep expertise in driving innovation and advancing our pipeline. We believe we are on track to
deliver on our full-year financial commitments in 2024.
I walked through our progress with three of our strategic priorities. And now, Dave will cover our
work to expand margins by realigning our cost base and allocate capital to enhance stakeholder
value as he discusses our financial performance and outlook.
With that, I'll turn it to you, Dave.
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert. And good morning, everyone. As we close out the first half of this year, I'm
very pleased by our second quarter results. We continue our relentless focus on execution,
demonstrating our ability to both protect and grow our core brands, while also continuing to
advance our science-led transformation by investing in key TAs to build durable franchises. Our
initiatives to right-size OpEx and to reduce cost of goods will result in a more efficient
organization, setting the stage for strong capital returns, and long-term improved shareholder
value, enabling our commitment to both maintain and to grow our dividend.This morning, I will briefly review our second quarter results, including some one-time items,
touch on our capital allocation priorities, and wrap up with an update on our '24 financial
guidance, our key priorities and expectations for the remainder of this year.
Turning first to Q2 for performance versus the same period of last year, let's walk down the P&L.
Total company revenues for the quarter were $13.3 billion, reflecting operational growth of 3%.
Our revenue and cash flow continue to be impacted by the post-pandemic COVID environment
on a global basis, but to a much lesser extent than prior quarters.
Looking at our business, excluding our COVID products, we demonstrated strong commercial
execution across the enterprise, resulting in 14% operational revenue growth in the quarter.
Performance was positively impacted by our continued focus on key products and geographies,
refined allocation of commercial field resources globally, and further optimization of our
marketing resources into key priority areas. Contributing to this performance was our acquired
products from Seagen, as well as NURTEC, alongside in line products, VYNDAQEL, ELIQUIS, and
XTANDI. As expected, dampening our growth in the quarter were Xeljanz and IBRANCE.
Adjusted gross margin for the quarter was 79% compared to 76% last year and was primarily the
result of favorable sales mix from our non-COVID products, as well as continued strong cost
management across our manufacturing network. Improvements in our gross margin rate will
continue to be a focus for the company over the next few years, as we execute on our recently
announced manufacturing optimization program.
This new program, and together with our cost realignment program, is focused on returning the
company to pre-pandemic operating margins on a mix adjusted basis, excluding commodity.
Phase 1 of the manufacturing optimization program, which focuses on operational efficiencies, is
well underway now. The first phase is expected to deliver approximately $1.5 billion in savings by
the end of 2027, some of which is anticipated to be realized beginning in 2025. Total adjusted
operating expenses increased 5% operationally to $6.3 billion and include spending from our
legacy Seagen business.
Looking at the components, adjusted SI&A expenses increased 8%, driven primarily by marketing
and promotional expenses for recently launched, as well as acquired products. Adjusted R&D
expenses increased 2% operationally, driven primarily by increased spending related to the
acquisition of Seagen, partially offset by lower spending, primarily the result of our cost
realignment program.
Q2 reported diluted earnings per share was $0.01, and our adjusted diluted earnings per share
was $0.60. Unique one-time items included in our GAAP results and excluded from our adjusted
results this quarter include a $1.3 billion charge related to our Manufacturing Optimization
program primarily for severance, and a $230 million charge for IPR&D asset impairment and other
related costs associated with the discontinuation of our DMD program. Additionally, we expect to
record a charge of approximately $400 million in the third quarter of 2024 after a decision was
made in July to sell one of our facilities as a result of the discontinuation of the DMD effort.
Now, let me quickly touch upon our capital allocation strategy, which is designed to enhance long-
term shareholder value. Our strategy consists of maintaining and growing our dividend over time,
reinvesting in our business at an appropriate level of financial return, and finally, making value-
enhancing share repurchases after delevering our balance sheet. In the first half of '24, we
returned $4.8 billion to shareholders via our dividend, invested $5.2 billion in internal R&D, and as
expected, the completed business development activity was minimal.Our commitment to delevering our capital structure to a gross leverage target of 3.25x remains a
key priority. In support of that goal, year-to-date we have paid down approximately $2.25 billion in
maturing debt, including $1 billion in May of outstanding notes. And though we did not monetize
any Haleon shares in Q2, we expect to resume monetization of our 23% Haleon stake in the
future. I would also note that once our Haleon ownership is less than 20%, our accounting will
transition from recording equity income and will no longer be included in our adjusted results. This
change is factored into our long-term financial planning as well as our guidance.
As we've previously stated, we expect operating cash flow to be significantly below typical levels
this year, and particularly during the first half of '24, due to the timing of certain payments and
one-time expenses. We expect heavily weighting of revenues to the fourth quarter as our
business has become more seasonal in nature, with the potential that a high level of cash
collections may carry over into Q1 of '25. Despite this near-term pressure, clearly our objective
remains to return to a more balanced capital allocation strategy over time.
Now, let me spend just a few minutes on an outlook for the remainder of the year. We entered
2024 focused on delivering on our financial commitments as well as commercial performance.
With a successful first half now complete, we believe it is appropriate to update our full-year
earnings outlook to reflect our strong business performance. I'll remind you that our revised
guidance assumes the seasonal cadence of our product portfolio and that we expect Paxlovid
results to trend with infection rates.
With that said, we are raising our full-year revenue range by $1 billion and our adjusted diluted
earnings per share by $0.30. We now expect revenues in the range of $59.5 billion to $62.5 billion
and operational revenue growth, excluding COVID products is now projected to be 9% to 11%.
COVID product revenues are now expected to be $8.5 billion for the year, $5 billion for
Comirnaty and $3.5 billion for Paxlovid.
Our guidance for adjusted SI&A and adjusted R&D remains unchanged, while our effective tax
rate on adjusted income is now expected to be approximately 13%. And lastly, we expect
adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.45 to $2.65, primarily reflecting the increase to the top-
line and the revised tax rate among other items. As a reminder, our EPS guidance includes an
anticipated $0.40 of earnings dilution from the Seagen acquisition, largely due to financing costs.
In closing, we remain on track to deliver at least $4 billion of net savings from our cost
realignment program by the end of this year. This improvement in our cost base, alongside our
new initiatives focused on manufacturing, is expected to put us on strong footing towards margin
expansion and improved financial returns. Additionally, our continued focus on execution and our
recent investments have positioned the company for continued success moving forward.
This quarter's results are a testament to the performance of our commercial business and our
prudent approach to improving our cost base. Though we've had a strong first half, we do not
take lightly the continued focus needed to deliver in the second half, considering the seasonality
of our respiratory products. We are clearly striving to bring about improved performance on both
top and bottom lines through a focus, execution, and delivering on our near-term commercial and
financial goals.
2024 is clearly a foundation year for Pfizer. Our achievements to-date set the stage for
generating compelling shareholder value. Through our science-led transformation, we will
methodically build off this space and with breakthroughs and innovations driving growth in the
back half of this decade.And with that, I'd now like to turn it back over to Albert to start our Q&A.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Dave. Let's start the Q&A session. Operator, please assemble the queue.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. So I wanted to ask you on danuglipron, when do you expect to
see the actual efficacy data? And if this product moves forward as anticipated, how hard would it
be for you to manufacture?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael, do you want to address it very quickly?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yes. We are, as Albert said in the oral remarks, doing the dose optimization for PK and
formulation to select potential doses for pending data progression to Phase 3, and we expect to
share that in the first quarter.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you very much. Let's move to the next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. And just thinking about the cost guidance,
cost measures here, just wanted to understand, how should we think about the margin expansion
for the rest of the year? And then how should we think about it going forward in 2025 and '26,
especially as you head into the IRA territory?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Perfect question for Dave.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. So Mohit, just a couple of things. As you recall, in my prepared remarks, we are focused on
and actually launched our Manufacturing Optimization program, the result of which will begin to
yield results in 2025 and to generate over $1.5 billion in savings by 2027.As we think about margin expansion, just given the guidance that I provided for the balance of
this year, it would imply that margin -- gross margin rates would actually improve versus the low-
70s. Color that we've given previously to probably mid-70s at this point in time. We do expect
that all these investments, both our cost realignment program and our investments from our
Manufacturing Optimization program, are all designed to improve operating margins to get us
back to pre-pandemic levels in the near future.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Operator, the next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Terence Flynn with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Terence C. Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. I was just wondering -- I had two on the new product cycle
side. How are you guys thinking about this upcoming RSV season as we think about patients
coming back in for a booster as well as maybe an existing new group of patients coming in? And
then on Elrexfio and myeloma, can you give us any color on the launch, either sales or market
share there, and if you're still confident in that $4 billion opportunity? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Terence, and very good questions. RSV, why don't Aamir and then Alexandre
speak about the Royalty, and then Chris you cover the Elrexfio.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Hey, Terence, it's Aamir. For ABRYSVO, I think we are very well-positioned going into the fall
season in the U.S. for three main reasons. One is contracting. So, we've significantly strengthened
our contracting position. Many of those decisions were confirmed shortly after the June ACIP and
are set to take effect in August, commensurate with the beginning of the season.
The second is the ACIP guidance itself with the recommendation for a single dose for all adults
over 75 and those 60 to 74 that are at increased risk. We think that is just clear and strengthens
the directive for those who are eligible for a vaccine.
And then thirdly, is just ABRYSVO itself. We've got great data, including two seasons of durable
efficacy data. As Albert alluded to earlier, we have both our current needle-free reconstitution kit
that is never required to be frozen or thawed, as well as our new active vial system, which offers
many advantages, including 80% storage efficiency. So, there's good options for customers.
And I will also remind you that there's many healthcare providers and pharmacies that prefer
simplifying their vaccine management by having one vaccine for both older adults and maternal,
which only a ABRYSVO can offer. So, the combination of contracting, the ACIP guidance, and the
value proposition of ABRYSVO positions us well in the U.S..
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Alexander, what about international markets?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `Yes. Terence, a good question on ABRYSVO. We are making great progress as well on the
international front following the approval, remember, in the second half of 2023 in Europe and in
the UK, we already are progressing nicely with vaccine technical committee recommending
positively ABRYSVO.
So, we got positive recommendations in the UK, in France, in Canada, in Australia, and several
other markets, and in Saudi Arabia as well. So we're moving very nicely. I got delighted that
actually the UK authority have selected ABRYSVO for RSV prevention in older adults, as well as in
maternal immunization for pediatric for the next two years with an option of additional two years.
And we also were selected in Canada specifically also for adult vaccination.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So good news for Pfizer. And let's go to Chris now.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thank you for the question on Elrexfio. As you saw, we recently demonstrated the updated
median overall survival data for Elrexfio in the intent to treat 123 patient population in the late-line
disease, where we see an overall survival of 24.3 months, which we believe is differentiated.
Elrexfio also have a differentiated profile in terms of the safety profile, as well as other factors,
including subcutaneous administration, flat non-weight-based dosing, and a flexible dosing
regimen overall. And we've now launched in 16 countries. And in fact, in Japan, we were the first
to launch and it's early days. We've also recently got approval in the EU and UK.
In the U.S., total demand is plus 40% growth sequentially quarter-over-quarter. And early next
year or during 2025, you'll see the readouts for the bigger opportunities, which is MagnetisMM-5
in the double-class exposed population. And then later in the year, potentially MagnetisMM-32,
which is post CD38. So overall, we remain confident that we've got a very differentiated molecule
that could become a backbone across the continuum of care for multiple myeloma.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Operator, next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from Alex Hammond with Bank of America.
Q - `Alexandria Hammond, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking the question. On NURTEC, can you walk us through the commercial strategy to
expand share in acute and preventive usage as well as the international markets? You've
mentioned focusing on physician awareness in a different way and reducing friction for patient
access. Any more color you can provide there? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Great questions. Aamir and then Alexandre.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Alex, on NURTEC in the U.S., I think there are a number of things that we've done in the first half
of the year to strengthen our demand. So we revamp all of our consumer activation efforts. Wesharpened the clinical value proposition and how we communicated that, including but not only
limited to the fact that we have an indication for treatment and prevention.
We also realigned our field forces to ensure that we're really maximizing activation of both
primary care and neurologist providers. And then we made a lot of efforts through the copay
support and other means to just reduce friction in patients actually getting access to NURTEC
once a script is written. So what you see this quarter for us is a combination of all of those things
starting to take effect.
So NURTEC TRx was up 28% over the prior year. Revenues were up close to 39% in the U.S. We
maintained leadership from a TRx and a NRx perspective at 49% and 48% share respectively. And
there were 9,000 new NURTEC writers. So that's about 85% of all new CGRP writers. So as we
look forward, we continue to see strengthened NURTEC demand. We'll continue to manage the
gross to net dynamics of that business, but we are optimistic about where we take it from here.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Alexandre?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. On the international front, we also have expanded access in the numbers of countries where
we have introduced the product. As you know, the growth that you see in the second quarter
versus the first quarter of 2024 is really the effect of the introduction of NURTEC in China at the
beginning of this quarter.
As of today, we have NURTEC reimbursed in 15 countries, including some of our key markets like
UK, Spain. And what we see is once we get reimbursement, we have a significant uplift of the
demand. And so, our focus now is to increase access and reimbursement in some of our key
markets. Moving forward, we see significant growth behind NURTEC. And the reason behind that
is there is today at the international level less than half of the diagnosed patients that are treated
with prescription medicine.
So that's why we think we have an opportunity with NURTEC.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And I believe, Alexandre, that this year, we got almost 55 countries register --
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
NURTEC in international markets, 55 markets. Of course, 15 received already reimbursement, and
we are waiting for the remaining 40 to receive reimbursement.
Let's move to the next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Akash Tewari, Jefferies LLC with Jefferies.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Jefferies LLC `Hey, thanks so much. On NexGen Prevnar, your team's been fairly quiet on its profile. Let's say
that the NexGen product only hits 27 serotypes and not 31 like some of your peers. Why should
we feel confident that Pfizer can retain a lion's share position in this market? And you mentioned
the NexGen product actually having the largest serotype coverage. Does that imply greater than
31 serotypes of coverage? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Thank you. As you know, we have worked over several decades in optimizing how to expand the
number of serotypes, while maintaining strong immune responses for as many as possible. We
have not disclosed yet how many serotypes we have.
We have recently pursued expansion of that NexGen into based Phase 2 of both pediatric and
adult and look forward to adult data to come quite soon, which will allow us to move swiftly in that
indication. We have made significant improvement on existing and new serotypes through new
technologies and that is deep capability. So it's not just about having the highest number of
serotypes, it's really to show the consistency and the data before you can draw any conclusion.
So we remain very confident in our ability to defend our leadership position and continue to
expand it through these new technology toolbox.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Mikael. Next question please.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. I want to ask you about your views on the IRA in particular implications on revenue
outlooks for 2025 and 2026. Obviously, your employee -- your partner Bristol on ELIQUIS made
commentary that I think has been interpreted by the Street as being that this is a dynamic that
could be manageable. We appreciate your specific reflections on the Pfizer portfolio. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Chris. I will ask Aamir to speak a little bit about the ELIQUIS specifically, and then
Dave, can you cover the general impact of IRA?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Chris, as you noted, BMS led the discussions with CMS on ELIQUIS maximum fair price because
they are the NDA holder and they share their perspective on that process during their earnings
call last week. Honestly, we don't have much to add to what they said. We share their view that
we have the ability to navigate the impact of IRA on ELIQUIS, and ELIQUIS will be an important
drug in our portfolio for the foreseeable future.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `Yes. And then I would just add to that as we look at IRA across our platform, first, I think we were
very fortunate at Pfizer that we had one product selected and secondly, if you look at the
remaining products that are likely to be selec -- that could potentially be selected they are
nearing the end of their patent protection life. So if you think about it from an at present value
perspective, the impact on Pfizer's somewhat muted as you think about it economically. I will say
this is a piece of legislation that clearly is harmful for supporting research and development in the
sector. So we're hopeful that this could be changed in the future, but we will continue to actively
manage our way through this.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Operator, next question, please.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our next question from Dave Risinger with Leerink Partners.
Q - `David Reed Risinger, Leerink Partners LLC `
Yes. Thanks very much. And I guess, I just wanted to start off by saying congratulations and best
of luck to you, Mikael.
So, my questions are, first, could you please comment on your expectations for Phase 1 obesity
candidates beyond once-daily danuglipron, including disclosures to watch over the next several
months?
And then second, Dave, could you just contextualize the $1.5 billion in COGS reductions relative to
the current annual run rate of about $15 billion? It seems like you're going to cut 10%, but how
should we think about net reduction, i.e. net COGS declines over the next three years? Thanks so
much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Mikael, why don't you give a little bit on the obesity candidates other than Danu?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yes. As you heard from Albert, Danu is the more advanced drug with a large tolerability, safety,
and efficacy experience. As always in our projects, we have additional drugs in the same class. It's
in Phase 1, performing as expected. We have another mechanism of action that would combine
with Oraglip [ph] such as Danu, later in development of a life cycle. And we have other
mechanisms to protect heart and kidney that could also be part of an internal medicine larger
cardiometabolic franchise. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And what about the cost reduction? Dave.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. So let me just anchor us on a few facts here. First, the cost reduction effort that we currently
have initiated is Phase 1 of a multiple phase program. So this $1.5 billion savings is only a part of it
or a piece of the story. We will tell more of the story as we define the program more specifically,
so you'll get more clarity on that. Secondly, if you look at the $1.5 billion cost improvement effort,and you think about that on our cost of goods sold platform, we're probably closer to $16 billion
versus $15 billion. This is an anchor point.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Operator, next question, please.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Srikripa Devarakonda, Truist Securities, Inc. with Truist Securities.
Q - `Srikripa Devarakonda, Truist Securities, Inc. `
Hey, guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. I have a question on the RSV in maternal
market. How -- have you gained traction in the maternal market? Are you seeing any sort of
setbacks? Just wondering if Pfizer needs to educate, build out, or do some groundwork before
the market really breaks open.
And then a follow-up question on PADCEV, there are other radioligands and ADCs that are
targeting Nectin-4. Are there -- how do you see the competitive landscape shaping up? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir, about maternal, RSV?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. Srikripa, so thanks for the question. I think let me start by just underscoring the interest that
we see on maternal vaccination. So when you talk to Ob/Gyns, there's a clear preference that
they have to vaccinate during pregnancy. And similarly, you hear the same from pregnant
mothers, greater than 60% prefer vaccination versus vaccinating the baby, maternal vaccination.
So our launch on maternal did exceed our expectations. So we saw uptake rates through the end
of January with about 11% of eligible mothers taking the vaccine. And that is significantly higher
than other maternal immunization at the same point in the life cycle. I think Tdap was less than 2%
at the same time.
So the other thing I will note is, it does require education, as you know. And last year's maternal
ACIP recommendation occurred just after the RSV maternal vaccination season began. So this
season, we have the benefit of using the first half of the year to invest in that education of both
HCPs, as well as pregnant women. And we look forward to the season ahead.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And international, anything to add?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, very few points. Just to say that following the approval, we also have great progress on the
Vaccine Technical Committee on vaccination in maternal. In the UK, we received positive
recommendation, as well as in France, in Australia, Belgium, Austria, Argentina. So many other,
including an interesting one, which is the Pau [ph] for Latin America. And now, we are progressing
into access, final access into those markets.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And about the competitiveness of PADCEV, Chris?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thank you for the question. We're very pleased that in this quarter, as you've seen, we printed
just shy of $400 million for PADCEV, with sequential quarter-over-quarter growth of 15%. Based
on the claims data through the end of May, we are seeing U.S. first-line share increasing into the
low 50% range.
And as you know, the next opportunity is obviously in muscle-invasive bladder cancer, with two
ongoing studies being conducted by Merck, which can expand the population to an additional
28,000 addressable patients. So overall, we are seeing that PADCEV, with pembrolizumab is
becoming entrenched in the first-line setting as the standard of care. And future studies, including
future nectin-targeted medicines, radioligands, or ADCs, will likely have to do studies against
PADCEV plus pembrolizumab in the first-line setting, which could be challenging.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Trung Huynh, UBS with UBS.
Q - `Trung Huynh, UBS `
Hi, guys. Thanks for the questions. Firstly, on Prevnar, there wasn't so much commentary in your
prepared remarks here. Just interested for the quarter, was that impacted by any one-offs? And
has there been any stocking dynamics or de-stocking at play here given the approval of KAT
batches and that anticipated launch?
And then secondly, just at ASCO, we saw some early KAT6 data in breast. The presenter was
very, very excited. Can you perhaps talk about the opportunity here? How quickly can we get
ABRYSVO clinical studies and when can we see the next set of longer-term data? Thanks very
much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir, what about the stocking?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. So on Prevnar, I'll just provide context on the U.S. performance dynamics. So the change year-
over-year is predominantly a result of lower adult demand due to shrinkage of the opportunity
size in that market. And the quarter-to-quarter change that you see is a function of the CDC
order timing for pediatric vaccines, which tends to be quite lumpy as well as some of the adult
vaccination dynamics of both shrinkage and seasonality.
And I think it's important to continue to think about these two segments very differently in the U.S.
So with pediatrics, as Albert had mentioned in his remarks, we exited Q2 with a share of 81%,
which is up 71% in August. And then the adult market continues to behave differently in the U.S. in
that it is contracting because there are just fewer eligible 65-plus adults and a more difficult toactivate younger population. And that's the same population that Merck's V116 will be will be
launching into.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And in the international market?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
The international, as you see, the first quarter, second quarter together for the first half, we grew
by 2%. And this is in line with our expectation. What we see is, of course, we are going to
capitalize on the very strong franchise that we are on, Prevnar 13, with 140 exclusive NIP around
the globe. And so as we get Prevnar 20 pediatric, we're going to launch this product and switch
from 13 to 20.
Now, in adults, it's a very interesting dynamic because in adults, our vaccination was in Europe and
outside of developed countries quite limited. Now that we see Prevnar 20 registered and
validated by VTC, we see significant pickup. And let me give you an example. In Germany, we got
VTC recommendations for 60 and above all comers and at risk from 18 to 59. And there in
Germany, since the beginning of the year, we see significant growth. We see that we will have
similar trends in other major markets in Europe.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And Chris?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thank you very much for the question on KAT6. KAT6 is a first in category medicine. We're very
proud that this medicine was conceptualized and discovered at our laboratories in La Jolla. As
you've seen with the most recent data objective response rate over 35% durable responses and
well tolerated. We therefore, plan to initiate a Phase 3 program over the next six months and
you'll learn more about that. But thank you for the question. We're also excited about KAT6.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. We are very excited about it. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Carter Gould with Barclays.
Q - `Carter Lewis Gould, Barclays Bank PLC `
Great. Good morning. Thank you for taking the question. I guess, the first one is just a clarification.
I guess, when we think about the PK, danuglipron data that got top-lined about a month ago, are
we going to see any of that data prior to the dose optimization data reading out early next year?
And then as we think about timelines for danuglipron, some of your European peers have talked
about potentially moving faster than I think some of the timelines that are generally thrown out
there, including potentially reaching market as early as 2028. Does Pfizer have sort of similar
plans or think such plans would be feasible for danuglipron? Any color on that front would be
helpful. Thank you.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yes. For your questions, we'll likely present a comprehensive data set on PK after collecting all the
data from the two studies, but we are looking into what's the best way to sharing it timely. We
have some of the most aggressive timelines when we agree a protocol with a regulatory agency
and pending data. And as Albert has said, if that becomes the case that we move forward
pending data. You can bet that like every Pfizer program, it will be very fast.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Q - `Christopher Thomas Schott, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Great. Just two questions for me. Just coming back to Danu again, I guess, just bigger picture, do
you expect the once-daily formulation will have an improved tolerability profile versus the twice-
daily? And maybe part of, as we think about the additional data you're getting, will you get
additional efficacy or tolerability data from these ongoing studies or is it really just PK? I'm just --
as you're trying to make a decision here, I just want to try to better understand what you're going
to have available to consider.
And then the second question I had was just on RSV. It sounds like some encouraging contracting
updates, but can you just elaborate a bit more on the market as a whole? Is this like a market you
expect to grow in the U.S. this year? I guess, on one hand, I'm balancing more visibility on who
should be targeted and covered post-ACIP, but at the same time, there's no RIVAX
recommendation yet. And there could be maybe some challenges for pharmacies trying to figure
out who's high risk and who's not in that 60 to 74-year-old population. So just as I balance those
two together, do you expect the market as a whole is growing this year? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Chris, given that for the interest of time, let me tell you about Danu. We have said it multiple
times that this is going to be PK data right now. We have done with Danu 1,400 patients. So we
feel very comfortable about the profile. We know the product. Right now, the question is if we
have a formulation that will allow us to take this product into Phase 3 registration enabling studies.
We made an announcement because we feel that what we saw from the first round of testing
multiple formulations, we felt encouraged that we have several that can deliver and one, but it
was the preferred one. And it is the one because it was the best of all. And now we are going to
test it.
Also, we can speculate if tolerability will be better or not because of once a day compares to
twice a day because we don't have the data. But as I said in my prepared remarks for Danu, the
profile that Danu right now has based on the 1,400 patients that we have seen is very
competitive both on tolerability and efficacy with whatever we have seen from others in the oral
space so far. And in terms of timing right now, with everything we know, we are the only one withPhase 2b data on an oral GLP-1 after, of course, Lilly. So right now, for everything we know, we
should be the second after Lilly if Danu progress into registration enabling studies.
Now, let's go to RSV.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
So Chris, what I would say is we are only in the second season now of an expanding market,
right? So you had the first season last year, this year with the ACIP recommendation, as I
mentioned earlier, we think that that provides clarity and it strengthens the need for those
identified in the recommendation to get a vaccine. And we've had another six months plus of
opportunity to educate HCPs as well as consumers. And we see growing relevancy and urgency
of people to vaccinate. So we do think that the opportunity set expands.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Operator, the next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from Tim Anderson with Wolf Research.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Thank you. Going back to IRA. So CMS is bound to make the disclosure of negotiated prices on
this first list of 10 drugs a very big production. It'll claim it's a major win over the industry. Of
course, it depends on how those prices compare to net prices uplift. My understanding is it's
possible to get this news from CMS earlier than September 1st, possibly this week ahead of the
congressional recess in early August. Do you agree it's possible we might get this news early?
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't know. They have the decision-making, so they will do what they think. I can't comment on
that. I know we have discussed that theme, so I will emphasize once more. If CMS says that was a
big win against the pharma industry, what I would say it was the whole law of IRA. It is a very big
loss for innovation and for the crown jewel of American industry, which is the life science
technology business.
But it is what it is. It is the law of the land. We are doing our best to make sure that we minimize
any impact, particularly in the future, because for now, as Dave said, we were probably in the next
few years, the NPV that are at stake for us is quite small, because we were fortunate not to have
up to four products selected only once.
Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Steve Scala with TD Cowen.
Q - `Stephen Scala, TD Cowen
Thank you so much. Two questions. First, do you expect VYNDAQEL to grow up to the LOE, or will
competitors pressure sales and take majority share before that? It certainly seems VYNDAQELAnd secondly, assuming no booster doses, does Pfizer still peg peak RSV vaccine sales at $2
billion-plus? That was guidance first provided in December 2022. And do you think you can
capture majority share this fall? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir, why don't you take the first one?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. Steve, on VYNDA, maybe what is going on now and then what is to come with competition?
VYNDA is continuing to grow at a very healthy clip. This is a result of multiple factors, a very
important one of which is we focused on expanding our HCP base that we are targeting, as well
as really investing in diagnosing and identifying patients. Diagnosis remains the biggest unmet
need in this condition, because there is almost half of patients that are still undiagnosed.
We do see a lot of growth opportunity in VYNDA. Now, for this year, it may not continue as the
same clip that we have seen in Q1 and Q2, because we had a big bolus of enrollment patients in
the beginning of the year, partially as a result of some of the IRA reforms. And the incremental
diagnoses become harder and harder to find, but we do expect continued growth with
VYNDAQEL. As far as competition, there is still a lot that needs to be understood exactly about
the competitors, their data, their profile, what actions they are going to take.
What I will say is that we obviously welcome more treatment options for patients, but there is a
lot that we are very confident in with VYNDA. There is a body of clinical evidence that includes
five-year follow-up clinical trial data and real-world evidence, including statistically significant
mortality and CV hospitalization data that is in our label, as well as quality of life benefits that we
think continue to position VYNDA well. But of course, with competition coming in, we will take that
into consideration and provide further guidance as things evolve.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And again, in the interest of time, Steve, for the RSV, when we provided the $2 billion
was in the frame of a pipeline asset, what is the key potential annually? We don't give once the
products are registered, typically projections, not even for the next year, not for the peak years.
But what I would say, if anything, things have become more promising since the time that we
gave this $2 billion because we were all surprised how much the medical community and the
recommended authorities are putting emphasis on the disease. So, that's my comment.
Sorry, I couldn't be more specific to you. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Vamil Devan with Guggenheim Securities.
Q - `Vamil Kishore Divan, Guggenheim Securities, LLC `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. Maybe a couple I could. One, you talked about the
aggressive timeline in obesity. I assume, for PCV, next-gen similarly, aggressive, maybe you can
just comment on sort of the time you think you'd take to get that product to market, given you're
now in Phase 2.
And then the second one is more related to Paxlovid. In the first quarter, you had the big
adjustment and you came in well above expectation, but to not raise the guidance. Now, thisquarter, you are raising the guidance. I'm curious if you can comment on anything you're seeing
sort of in the channels or what's driving the confidence to raise the guidance now. And then, sort
of tied to that, is that the main driver of sort of the increased gross margin expectations? I know
you said it's a product mix and cost management, sort of combination, but just seeing if you can
maybe parse out sort of the main drivers of that impact. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. For the next-gen, I will make it easy. As we announced that we enter into Phase 2 studies,
both in pediatric and adult. So, one can calculate. You can't comment how long it will take
because these are event-driven studies, particularly if you go into Phase 3, right? So, we don't
know how long that will take, and we don't comment at this stage.
But let's go to Paxlovid and explain the dynamics of it.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. So, for Pax in the U.S., you pointed to the momentum in Q1, which I'll remind you was a
combination of both the true-up as well as ongoing utilization that was very high, given the wave
of COVID infection. What happened then is, in the first half of Q2, infections were low. And the
very clear trend that we see with Paxlovid is when there is a COVID infection wave, we have
healthy Paxlovid utilization. So, starting in May, all the way through June, there was increased
COVID infection waves and our Paxlovid utilization followed. So we had about 35,000 treatment
courses a week in April and May, peaking to about 100,000 in June. So we have seen continued
utilization.
Now, it is trickier for the wholesalers and end customers to manage utilization around disease.
That's a little bit unpredictable. So we did enter Q2 with higher than normal inventory levels, but
the wave of utilization that we've seen in Q2 has helped normalize those inventory levels. And all
of the dynamic combined with the fact that we've built a commercial model to successfully get
Paxlovid to those who need it, including very healthy coverage of commercial payers, 90% of
pharmacies across the U.S. already participating in our USG PAP program, and a simplified model
for delivering that PAP program to patients. When there is a COVID infection wave, we're
confident about Paxlovid utilization.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Aamir.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
And just real quickly, as you think about the guidance, I think your question was, was this what was
driving our improvement in guidance? This was one of many factors because our core business in
general is doing quite well, and our cost management programs are really taking hold. So this is
one of multiple factors that drove that $0.30 raise.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David. And also, Vamil, I realized that I misspoke before when I said that it is event-
driven, the next-gen. It is not, it's immunogenicity. Also, I can offer another point for you to try to
estimate the timelines that next year, we expect to have the regulatory discussions about how
the program should look like. And then we will form better understanding when we can have the
Phase 3 readout.Next question, please. And I think the last question. Operator, last question, please. We cannot
hear you, operator. Sorry for this technical problem. The technician just told me to wait a moment,
please. Otherwise, we will stop the call here.
Operator
We'll take our final question from Evan Seigerman with BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `David Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets `
Hey, guys. Thank you for squeezing me in at the end. I would love for some comments on
VYNDAQEL, given the strength this quarter. You really came in ahead of consensus. Do you
expect this continuing in the back half of the year into '25? And just given the IP, in the next couple
of years expiring, what can you do to extend this given how -- given the strength of this
franchise? Thank you so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Hey, Evan. So, a bit -- as I mentioned earlier, yes, we do expect to see continued growth
momentum for VYNDA in the back half of this year and going forward, for the reasons I described
earlier. It may not be at the level that we saw in the first half of the year because of the Q1 bolus
of patients, but the combination of what we're doing in terms of physician expansion, investment
in driving diagnosis, and tailwinds from IRA reform do give us conviction around short-term
VYNDAQEL growth.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And when it comes to IP, right now, it's very difficult once the product is getting generic to be
able to fight with a new molecule, unless you have substantial differentiation. And VYNDAQEL has
tremendous efficacy. So, we do not expect that the market will continue being as big, particularly
for us, after we see generics entering into it. So thank you for the question.
So I want to make some just closing remarks. We had a very strong first half of the year, and we
are confident that we will deliver on our full-year of financial commitments in '24. We are driving
progress with solid execution as we continue to help patients and grow our business. Execution
makes the difference. Thank you for your interest in Pfizer, and we hope you have a wonderful
week.
Operator
This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at any
time.