Q3 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to our Q3 call. Our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, and our CFO, Walter
Mertl are also back in the room with me. The line will be open shortly for your questions. The
operator will first give you some technical instruction. Please go ahead.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) Thank you and
a moment for the first question, please. The first question is from `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs at Goldman
Sachs. Please unmute yourself and begin with your question.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah, good morning and thank you for taking my questions. The first question I had was around
the underlying profitability of the business. If we add back something in the region of EUR800
million for the IBS provisioning, it would imply an auto margin of around 5% [ph]. And I think if we
also look at your full year guidance, it would seem to suggest a margin in the range of 5% to 7%
for the fourth quarter. So, is this the right way to think about the underlying level of profitability at
BMW today, or are there still factors related to IBS that are suppressing the margin both in Q3
and Q4 on an underlying basis?
The second question I had was with respect to your North American manufacturing footprint.
Obviously, it's too early in terms of the election and what that might mean for trade and tariffs,
but could you just give us some insight into the flexibility you have in the plant in Spartanburg?
Can you increase the capacity there? What kind of stiff structure are you operating, and would
that plant also be capable, in theory, of producing large sedans in the future? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, George. We start with Walter and then Oliver. Walter, please.A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, George. Thank you for analyzing our high three-digit million warranty provision, which I
didn't mention with these numbers, but quite close. But we shouldn't forget that more or less two
weeks we lost on sales. That's the reason why sales is down in Q3, revenue is down, and
automatically also profit. So, there is the biggest impact in Q3, which we also stated in
September. There is still an impact in Q4. So, not everything is fully caught back, but still an impact
there. And that's the reason why your math is absolutely right for the Q4. It must be something
between 5% and 7% in the quarter to end up with 6% to 7% year to date-12 [ph] as we set our
guidance. And we shouldn't forget also the mixed implication in Q3 because most of the IBS cars
have been on the upper premium segment. So, that will turn back in Q4 also supporting it, but as
I mentioned, in the quarter four, we still have some impact of IBS.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Walter. And now we come to the second part of your question,
manufacturing footprint in the US. Oliver, please?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Good morning, George. Let's look at three things. First of all, we are since 30 years in the United
States with our own manufacturing facility, more than 50 years in the market as a key player
there, very strong over more or less all segments with a very high manufacturing footprint, and
that's my second point. We produced the most demanded vehicles in the United States we
produce there. The X3 is brand new and we're very confident that this will be a good success in
the United States as well. We also produced the X5, X6, X7, XM. It's all produced in the United
States. So, there is some natural cover up against possible tariffs or whatever, but let's not
speculate whether there are tariffs. It might also only be that this is a verbal issue.
Let's look at the results so far this year. Per October in the United States, we see a growing
market for us. We sold more than 290,000 vehicles in the United States and that's a growth by
almost 7,000 units. So it's a growing market. And if you look only in October, we gained even
more momentum. We sold 36,750 cars, and that's a growth by more than 20% against the
previous year, plus of 7,300 cars. So the market is working really well for us. We seem to have the
right product portfolio on the combustion engine side as well as on the electric side. So, in the
United States, I would think we almost have a perfect setup for the time to come.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, George. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank. Please unmute yourself and begin with
the question.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, thank you very much, Oliver and Walter. I would have two quick follow-ups to George's
questions. I think what he was trying to get to with the first one is, is this underlying profitability
level that we've now seen in Q3 pre the provisioning and that we are expecting for Q4, the right
number to think about in an environment that we currently have in the world with weak China, EVtransition, and so on, so forth, or is there scope to improve that from the levels that we're seeing
here?
And the second follow-up to that is, Oliver, in your exposure in the US, obviously, we can see two
things here. We can see a further escalation of the US/China trade tensions and we can see
something, as you said, that may just be rhetorically from M right now on EU into US. How many
vehicles are you importing into the US currently, and how many are you exporting? If you could
just update us on the number.
And then my actual question is the weakness of the sector that we're seeing right now is still
China. It seems there's different perceptions of how this will play out. What's your game plan for
China? Is this just a cyclic weakness that the auto industry is used to? We're seeing this in other
markets. Before we've been in the US, we've been in Europe. Or did something permanently
break when it comes to demand for Western brands? What's your assessment? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay, thank you very much, Tim. We start with Walter about Q3 and the game plan for China.
Walter, please?
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Tim. Well, as I tried to mention the 5% to 7% math calculated number for Q4, that is rather
the point, but going forward, our strategic target is still 8% to 10%. And of course, we can't do
any predictions which we will do in March because we also based on all what's going on also in
the US we have to see, and then we will give the right numbers accordingly, but our strategic
numbers which we are still aiming for, and we also mentioned at the ad hoc guidance is 8% to
10% EBIT margin for our business.
And in China, as we mentioned previously, we are growing on the BEV side. We have 15% share
of BEVs in the total market and MINI just has launched. X3 is also going to claim back things
because we are in the run out of the X3 in China. It's just a ordinary business. So, we will see
momentum also going forward.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much, Walter. And now, Oliver, to the exposure of US vehicle export
numbers?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Let's first not speculate on the outcome of the election and it's -- and the consequences. Our
nationwide footprint in the United States currently consists of about 30 locations in 12 states. So
it's not only Spartanburg. And of course our largest BMW plant as a single entity sits in the United
States. To your question, 65%, so two-thirds of our local US sales are produced in Spartanburg,
mainly with the X models. And we are committed to investing further. As we stated before, we
will electrify this plant as well, and we are investing there already as we speak with EUR1.7 billion.
The business we have there directly and indirectly provides and supports more than 120,000
jobs. I think this is very important to local politicians and contributes overall $43 billion to the US
economy. So what I mean with that, we have a strong footprint there which kind of protects us
against anything which might happen on the geopolitical side.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate AffairsThank you very much, Tim. Next question, please?
Operator
The next question is from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America at Bank of America. Please unmute yourself and begin
with your question.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah, hello. Can you hear me?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Yes, we hear you. Yes.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay, excellent. Great.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Go ahead, Horst.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah, yeah, thank you. First question that I have is because you have got by now -- I mean in the
quarterly report you don't show these numbers anymore. You show that just in the annual report.
Could you maybe tell us what was the amount of warranty provisions that you had at the end of
nine months in the context of this recall? And when I think about that, the biggest lever by now for
earnings for the future is to bring the warranty costs down. So, could you give us maybe a feeling
what measures you have taken in general to bring the costs down, and how quick you expect
these costs to come down, and what is the normal level of warranty provisions once you got all
these issues under control? That will be very helpful.
The number two question that I have is, we have got by now in -- I mean, several auto companies
are saying they need to cut costs. I think in Germany, every auto company is saying that, I think,
except you, but you had also increase of employees in Germany. I think in Europe in general you
still opened a plant. Given now the situation that we have, that seems to be more difficult to push
as well. Do you see the need to cut more costs and by when can we expect maybe kind of
programs you want to announce? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Horst. Walter, please?
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Horst. So, the warranty provision compared with year end '23 is more or less on the same
level. Why is that? Yes, we have all new accruals on provisions, we have additional warranty costs
digested in the P&L, but on the other side, we also mentioned already that we pay off all these
warranty provisions we had it for, from the -- from last year. So yes, if you have a look for the
principle on the warranty side, we have three major topics which you're all aware of. We had the
airbag some years ago, we had AGR, and currently we are running on the IVS. So, that all gets
repaired and paid out. And based on that, we keep the level of provisions currently year to dateA - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay, thank you very much, Walter. Then, we come to Oliver, please?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Efficiency is a cornerstone of our product strategy. There is a base ratio we put in all to our
planning of 4%. And let's have a look at Europe. This is not a shrinking market for us. Again, if we
look at months to date figures, we sold in Europe 620,000 cars, which is a considerable chunk of
our complete product portfolio, and it grew by almost 50%. That's more than 7% growth in
Europe. So, we're not shrinking here in Europe. And let's have a look at the figure.
Second of all, yes, we are opening a new plant. We opened the plant in Hungary with very, very
competitive conditions. And that will strengthen also on the cost side, our competitiveness
against plants we have here in Germany. So, we need capacities to grow and we do grow, as you
see. And of course the Hungary plant is a full electric plant. And as we said before, we grow with
the BEV over all segments currently. So, the current situation does not change our plans at all.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Maybe can you tell us what is the -- what is the reversal of volunteer provisions we may see
the next year? Is it just the bookings you did during Q3 or I think there should be more to come
on top, right, because as you say, you had basically three warranty cases?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, as I mentioned, we are working on the repair of all these warranty cases. That's the reason
why we have such a big amount on the short period disclosed end of last year, and we are still
working on those once everyone is getting dealt with, and IBS as we also announced is through
by '25.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay. Good, Horst. Thank you very much. Next question, please?
Operator
The next question is from Jose Asumendi at J.P. Morgan. The first question is, in order to protect
the profitability in China, do you plan to change your powertrain mix more ICE, less BEV to protect
margins in the region and any other measures you plan to take to protect the earnings and cash
flow in the region? And the second question is, if global powertrain demand shift more towards
BEV and mild hybrid, how is the powertrain portfolio of BMW ready to deal with this transition by
2030?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay. Yeah, we start first part of the question with Walter and then Oliver.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `So, on the powertrain mix in China, we shouldn't forget that 85% of the volumes sold in China is
produced in China, and this will become even more with the new MINI to start -- full electric MINI
produced in Zhangjiagang, so that share will increase. And we will also, of course, have all these
benefits in China cost wise. So, it's straight competitive and maximum 15% is getting imported
from outside China. So, that is the reason why we still absolutely convinced about that we have a
protection of our earnings and hence the free cash flow.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
The strength of BMW lies in its flexibility regarding powertrains, and that is true in all regions of
the world, but very specifically in China. Let's have a look at the figures. Until this month, we sold
38,000 cars in China, which were purely electric -- which was a gross of almost 5,000 units. So,
the pure BEV side is growing in China for us. It's not shrinking. What is shrinking is the complete
market. But the majority of cars we sell in China is still pure ICEs. So, to have that flexibility to
respond in the market with super efficient ICEs and at the same time take part in the growth of
the BEV segment is I think our secret.
Now your question is looking toward 2030. We will locate the Neue Klasse also in China. So, the
battery electric only vehicle segment, we will participate with that new architecture and it will be
very competitive in that market. It has to do with the new user interface, it has to do with the
latest battery technology with round cells as we have said many times before of the sixth
generation. And it has to do with a very efficient architecture overall, and with the newest level of
digitalization connectivity. So towards 2030, we are very happy with the flexible approach, and of
course on the plug-in hybrid side, we will have more or less in all segments of plug-in hybrid with
BMW driving dynamics. And let's not forget the M division at the end of the day which is very high
regarded in China, and of course that heritage of M is something competitors don't have. Also,
the new players don't have that. And that gives some strengths to BMW as well if I look between
now and 2030.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much. Next question, please?
Operator
The next question is from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Bernstein at Bernstein. Please unmute yourself and begin with
your question.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Stephen, are you with us?
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Bernstein `
Yes, good morning. Yes, good morning, sorry.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Good morning.Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Bernstein `
(multiple speakers) to unmute, but thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Bernstein `
A question about China really, to get some granularity really on what's going on there as well,
please. First of all, obviously, you've got -- you've mentioned about your BEVs are well accepted
there. Can you comment about the reception of the i5, which you priced at the same price as the
525Li? And secondly, could you comment on the state of your dealers because, obviously, there's
been some publicity about some high profile closes including a 5S dealership in -- Beijing -- the
Beijing -- Beijing Xingde Bao, I believe. So, is it about their own financial problems, or is it
triggered by specific anything issues with BMW? Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Stephen. Walter, please?
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Stephen. Well, I think we are all aware on the pricing situation in China is different than in
other regions. That's the reason why in China we have the price on the i5 equal to the ICE car.
You will find that across our product range. The dealer support you're referring to, that was, of
course, in a three-digit million euro position that we supported our dealers on profit as well as on
liquidity in order to stabilize the situation, and that is coming straight to your next point, state of
Chinese dealers.
Yep, a lot of them are currently in loss, but this is not just facing -- they're not just facing
performance issues. In some cases, it's also a financing issue. That means, it's not just about
profitability, but also liquidity. And indeed GA, German Automotive, had an issue announced last
week. And we, of course, care about all of our customers, they're always first priority. That
means, we are ensuring continuity with other dealers in the area so that we can still serve the
customers with all the products they need.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much, Stephen. Next question, please?
Operator
Next question is from Philippe Houchois at Jefferies. Please unmute yourself and begin with your
question.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Philippe, are you with us? We don't hear you. Okay, I think we come to another question.
Operator
The next question is from `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ BANK at DZ BANK. Please unmute yourself and begin withQ - `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ BANK `
Yes, Max. Good morning. I have one question with regard to your financial results. This was clearly
negative in Q3. Could you explain the reasons for that? And is it fair to assume that the big bulk
of that will reverse in Q4 taking into account the current interest rate levels?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Good. Yes, we understand. Thank you very much. The answer will come from Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Michael. The key reason is the evaluation of the fair value derivative side, the standalone
derivatives, and that is a major impact in September. End of September especially, we had
decreasing interest ratios and that had an impact on our portfolio, plus some of the interest
derivatives running out in -- got matured in Q3, and that is this impact. And reversal in Q4, as you
are fully aware of evaluation of these derivatives, interests increasing means we will have
additions and positive effects. Increase still going down, we would have a negative effect. Mainly
this is in our other entity segment because this is the funding site for financial services, and they
have a hedging strategy to fit with the interest derivatives.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Walter, and also Michael. So, we are coming to our last question.
Operator
Final question is from `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays at Barclays. Please unmute yourself and begin with your
question.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah, good morning and thanks for taking the question. I had one on capital returns, please.
Walter, you talked about the authorization for another 10% at over your five-year timeframe.
Classification of your net automotive liquidity, you suggested that you would be paying out a very
high percentage of your free cash flow, but it seems like if we're spreading a 10% for five years,
and add that to the dividend, that doesn't quite add up, or not remotely for mid-term target of
around EUR7 billion free cash flow. So, I just wanted to understand the logic there. Is it possible to
accelerate that to accommodate a higher payout ratio of free cash (technical difficulty) changed
since we had this meeting with you about this? That's the first question, please.
Second question is the benefit from tariffs. I just wanted to understand your logic there. I believe
on the media call you suggested even be a net beneficiary of the tariffs. I just wanted to
understand how you think about that. Did you mean relative to Mercedes and Porsche, or how did
you think about that? And final one, housekeeping one, could kindly break out the volume price
mix by item? I think you usually do that, so it would be great to get that color. Thank you very
much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Okay, we start with Walter and then Oliver.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `Hello, Henning. Well, from a legal point of view, we always apply for 10% related to five years.
That is our legal frame. And so, we did in 2022 when we also requested 10% share buybacks for
five years, that would have concluded in '27. As I just mentioned, our second program will be
concluded by end of April 25, and we would still have EUR1 billion left. So, it will conclude
anywhere earlier than '27. That's the reason why we propose, I have to say we propose, it's an
AGM decision, ultimately, we propose to have a further 10% and based on legal question again
for five years. And whether we accelerate or not depends, of course, on free cash flow. As we
always said, free cash flow of automobile is then paid out via dividend, 30% to 40% of our profit
and optional by our share buybacks. So that is still the case and I'd just refer to our AGM proposal
which is based on legal. Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thanks, Walter. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, if you are a local producer with the local footprint, you are, of course, benefiting in case
there's something changing on the tariff side, and I think that was meant in the last call that we
benefit from these tariffs and that is true in China where we produce 85% of the local sales
volume and specifically also in the United States where we have more than two-thirds of our
production volume is sold in the United States. That's a kind of a natural protection you have
there.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
So, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. We have reached the end of the telephone
conference. Oh, breakdown of volume/price mix -- sorry. Sorry, coming back, Walter, the last
question for you. Breakdown of volume/price mix per item for Q3, sorry. Yes.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
As I mentioned in my speech, it is all coming down. Volume, of course, heavily impacted because
of IBS, which also led to elevated inventory side. That is a key element. Mix is also down because
IBS is heavily impacting our upper premium segment cost meaning MKL, GKL. So this is really
weighting. And the pricing side is a high three-digit negative quarter over quarter Q3 '23 versus
quarter three this year, and that is rather based on the (inaudible) our results.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Good.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director of Corporate Affairs
Thank you very much, Walter, thank you very much, Oliver. So, we have reached the end of the
telephone conference. Thank you for joining us. All the best to you and bye-bye and servus from
Munich.