S1 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the UK and the U.S., good afternoon to those in Central
Europe, and good evening to those listening in Asia. Welcome to AstraZeneca's Half-Year and Q2
Results 2024 Webinar for Investors and Analysts. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to
read the safe harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties, and may be influenced by factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements.
Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the
slide deck that accompanies this presentation.There will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentations. (Operator Instructions)
And with that, I would now like to hand the conference over to the company.
`Andrew Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
A warm welcome to AstraZeneca's half-year and second quarter 2024 presentation, conference
call and webcast for investors and analysts. I'm Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations, and
before I hand over to Pascal and other members of our executive team, I would like to cover
some important housekeeping points.
Firstly, all of the materials presented today and additional resources, including updated
epidemiology tables and our recent Investor Day materials, are available on our Investor
Relations website. This slide contains our safe harbor statement, which I'd encourage you to take
time to read. We will be making comments on our performance using constant exchange rates,
or CER, core financial numbers, and other non-GAAP measures. A non-GAAP-to-GAAP
reconciliation is contained within the results announcement, and all numbers quoted are in
millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated.
This slide shows the agenda for today's call, and following our prepared remarks, we'll open the
line for questions. We will try and address as many questions as we can during the allotted time,
although I'd ask the participants to limit the number of questions you ask to allow others a fair
chance to participate in the Q&A.
And with that, Pascal, I'll hand the floor over to you.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Andy. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, everybody. In the first
half of the year, total revenue grew by 18%, driven predominantly by strong underlying demand
for our medicines across key therapy areas and geographies.
We recorded a record second quarter with almost $13 billion of revenue. Co-operating profit
increased to $8.4 billion, while core EPS increased 5% to $4.03. On both measures, it is important
to recall that in the first half of 2023, the company benefited from one-time other core operating
income totaling $1.1 billion. Adjusting for other operating income, growth in core operating profit
and core EPS in the first half would have been higher. And this shows that we continue to work on
leverage with faster operating margin growth and revenue.
With the strength of our underlying business, I'm pleased to announce we've upgraded our full-
year guidance. We now expect both total revenue and core EPS to increase by mid-teens
percentages. It is a strong upgrade that rely on the underlying strength of our business, and
collaborative revenue, as you've probably noted, are not growing. Aradhana will provide you with
additional details shortly in our prepared remarks. Please move to the next slide.
Taking a closer look at our total revenue performance in the first half, we continued to benefit
from our diverse broad-based business. We delivered double-digit growth in the U.S., in Europe,
in the emerging markets, ex-China, and in China, we delivered a growth of 15%; nearly 30% ex-
China. Oncology, biopharmaceuticals, and rare disease all delivered double-digit growth in the
first half of the year, supported by increasing demand for our leading medicines. Please move to
the next slide.
We saw continued pipeline momentum in the first half of the year, delivering several potentially
transformative Phase 3 trials readouts, and new approvals across our therapy areas. Since ourmarks an important step towards building our presence in bladder cancer. We received the FDA
approval for Imfinzi in endometrial cancer based on the DUO-E trial, and we have received
breakthrough designation for ADRIATIC in limited-stage cell lung cancer -- small cell lung cancer.
Additionally, breakthrough designations were granted for Additionally, breakthrough designations
were granted for Tezspire in COPD following the encouraging results from the Phase 2b
COURSE trial; and eneboparatide in hypoparathyroidism with Phase 3 results expected in the first
half of next year. Taken together, the collection of Phase 3 readouts and annual launches listed on
this slide will support underlying momentum in the future growth potential of our business.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Aradhana who will take you
through our financials.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal, and hello, everyone. Next slide, please. As usual, I will start with our reported
P&L. As Pascal just highlighted, we have had a very strong start to the year with total revenue
increasing 18%. This was driven largely by substantial product sales growth across the portfolio.
Alliance revenue also increased by 50% in the first half, mainly driven by an increase in HER2 sales
in regions where Daiichi Sankyo records revenue.
Please turn to the next slide. This is our core P&L. In the first half, total revenue grew 18%, as I just
mentioned, and our core product sales gross margin was 82.4%. We've previously said that we
anticipate a slightly lower core product sales gross margin for the full year versus 2023, and we
expect downward pressure in the second half driven by the usual seasonal impact of medicines
such as FluMist, as well as increased Beyfortus supply, which comes at a lower gross margin.
In the first half, both SG&A and R&D costs increased 15%. We expect R&D expense for the full
year to be towards the upper end of our indicated low-20s percentage range due to accelerated
trials and the inclusion of expenses following closure of various business development
transactions, including Gracell, Fusion, and Amolyt.
Core operating profit in the first half increased by 7% despite a significant decline in other
operating income. Recall that in the first half of 2023, other operating income was $1.1 billion
related to the gains by the disposal of the U.S. rights of Pulmicort Flexhaler and the amended
Beyfortus agreement.
Reflecting the aforementioned substantial decline in other operating income, core EPS grew 5%
at CER to $4.03. Please turn to the next slide. In the first half, net cash inflow from operations
grew by around 15% to $700 million. Net debt increased by $3.8 billion to $26.3 billion, driven by
the recent acquisitions which created a total cash outflow of over $5 billion. We also made the
final payment to the former shareholders of Acerta and paid the second interim dividend in the
first quarter.
We continue to expect a roughly 50% increase in tangible CapEx in 2024 as we invest in both
increased capacity and new capabilities. Tangible CapEx of $799 million in the first half included
maintenance CapEx, as well as investments in our new API facility in Ireland, a new inhaled
manufacturing site in Qingdao, China, and our new cell therapy manufacturing site in Rockville,
Maryland.
In May, we announced plans to build a new end-to-end ADC manufacturing site in Singapore. As
previously communicated, we anticipate deal payments related to past transactions to be in thesame range as last year or at around $2 billion. Finally, our current net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA
ratio is now at 1.8x. Please move to the next slide.
As you can see on this slide, strong performance of our leading medicines across key therapy
areas supports our full-year guidance upgrade. In the first half, eight of our medicines delivered
total revenue above $1 billion. Next slide, please.
We now anticipate total revenue and core EPS to increase by a mid-teens percentage at constant
exchange rates, up from our previous guidance of a low double-digit to low teens percentage.
Importantly, this upgrade does not include any increase in collaboration revenue.
Last year, we booked $594 million in collaboration revenue, which reinforces this upgrade is
entirely driven by an improvement in underlying performance from our product sales and alliance
revenues.
Based on average June FX rates, we continue to anticipate a low single-digit adverse FX impact
on total revenue and a mid-single-digit adverse impact on core EPS.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Dave, who will take you
through our oncology performance.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thank you, Aradhana. Next slide, please. Oncology total revenues grew 22% to $10.4 billion in the
first half, driven by strong demand for our key medicines and building on momentum gained from
the first quarter.
Tagrisso global revenues grew 12% in the quarter, reflecting further global demand for ADAURA,
initial launch uptake for FLAURA2 in some of our markets, and continued expansion of treatment
duration in the frontline setting.
Calquence total revenues increased 22% in the second quarter, with sequential growth of 10%,
driven by sustained BTK inhibitor leadership in frontline CLL and continued international
expansion.
Imfinzi total revenues grew 18%. As expected, growth was impacted by the 25% price reduction
in Japan, and we anticipate a second mandatory price reduction of 11% in Japan, which reflects
the shift from weight-based to fixed dosing to take effect from August.
We continue to see strong demand for Imjudo in combination with Imfinzi in both liver and non-
small cell lung cancers, demonstrating total revenue growth of 19% in the quarter. Lynparza
remains the leading PARP inhibitor globally across all tumor types, delivering sales growth of 7%.
On Enhertu, total revenues increased 49% in the second quarter with sustained market share
leadership in second-line HER2-positive breast cancer. We also received positive feedback from
the medical community following the presentation of DESTINY-Breast06 data last month, which
we believe support continued expansion in HER2-low.
Following Enhertu's tumor-agnostic approval in April, we saw encouragingly early launch signals in
the quarter with 13 NCCN guidelines updated and a rapid increase in physician awareness. Taken
together, we expect to see a return to sequential growth into the third quarter for Enhertu.
Finally, our recently launched novel AKT inhibitor, Truqap, delivered $92 million in the second
quarter for total revenues, reflecting strong adoption in the biomarker-altered population.Looking ahead, we're pleased with the U.S. approval of DUO-E expanding Imfinzi into the
endometrial setting. Additionally, we look forward to bringing the benefit of FLAURA2 to more
patients globally following approvals in Europe, Japan, and China, and further cementing Tagrisso
as a backbone standard of care in EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer. And finally, the
recent approval of CAPItello-291 in Europe will help to build additional launch momentum for
Truqap.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll hand over to Susan to cover key R&D
highlights from the quarter.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. Over the past quarter, we've presented several practice-changing datasets. At
ASCO, we had two back-to-back plenary sessions for LAURA and ADRIATIC, demonstrating our
leadership in early-stage lung cancer. The strength of these data were reinforced by the inclusion
of LAURA as a Category 1 recommendation in the NCCN guidelines within 12 days of data
presentation, and its acceptance for priority review in the United States.
We also presented the data for DESTINY-Breast06 in a special oral session at ASCO. DESTINY-
Breast06 is the first Phase 3 trial of a HER2-directed therapy or an antibody drug conjugate to
show benefit across both the HER2-low and a HER2-ultra-low breast cancer population. And this
dataset represents the opportunity both for more patients to receive Enhertu and for them to
receive it earlier, prior to chemotherapy.
Finally, at EHA, we shared the results from ECHO, extending the reach of Calquence earlier into
mantle cell lymphoma. These data show that Calquence, in addition to standard of care
chemoimmunotherapy, improved progression-free survival and had an early trend for improved
overall survival, the first BTK inhibitor to show an overall survival trend in this setting.
The positive high-level results from NIAGARA, our trial for Imfinzi plus chemotherapy, followed by
Imfinzi maintenance in the muscle-invasive bladder cancer setting, signals our potential expansion
into bladder cancers. There are approximately 120,000 patients with muscle-invasive bladder
cancer globally, and even after cystectomy, patients still experience high rates of recurrence and
a poor prognosis. This makes the positive event-free survival and overall survival results from
NIAGARA incredibly important, and we look forward to sharing these data at an upcoming
Congress. Beyond NIAGARA, our broader program targets all stages of bladder cancer, as we
look to redefine the outcomes for patients with this challenging disease.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
BioPharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. Next slide, please. Our BioPharmaceuticals medicines delivered total
revenue of $10.4 billion in the first half of 2024, representing growth of 17%. Total revenue growth
for both CVRM and R&I was 22%, and we were very pleased to see Farxiga add $1 billion of
revenue versus the first half of 2023, further strengthening our franchise in cardio-renal diseases.
In the second quarter, Farxiga delivered 49% growth in Europe and 38% growth in the emerging
markets. We saw 16% growth in the U.S. compared to prior year, though sequential growth was
impacted by inventory movements following the launch of an authorized generic in the first
quarter.Following Wainua's approval in ATTR polyneuropathy at the end of 2023, we have seen
encouraging launch uptake for this ultra-rare disease, which can be fatal if left untreated. New
starts include a mix of patients who are new to treatment, some who have switched from other
medicines, and some who are using Wainua as an add-on to their existing medication.
In the second quarter, R&I was our fastest-growing therapy area, up 26%. We saw strong growth
across the portfolio, with global sales from the Tezspire alliance on track to achieve blockbuster
status this year. Equally, Breztri saw strong growth of 51% in the first six months, and, like Tezspire,
is on track to achieve blockbuster status. Finally, it has been another strong quarter for Symbicort
in the United States and emerging markets. And Airsupra continues to see strong volume uptake
following its launch at the start of the year, with revenues reflecting introductory discounts as
access builds.
Next slide, please. I will now hand over to Sharon to discuss the latest developments from the
BioPharmaceuticals pipeline.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Thank you, Ruud. We have had several exciting data presentations in the first half across our
BioPharmaceuticals R&D portfolio. In the second quarter, we presented two key datasets from
our CVRM portfolio that support our confidence in their multi-blockbuster potential.
At EAS, we presented the Phase 1 data for AZD0780, our oral PCSK9 inhibitor for hyperlipidemia.
In this trial, AZD0780 delivered a statistically significant LDL-C reduction of 52% on top of
standard of care statin, resulting in a 78% reduction from baseline. This efficacy, combined with
the excellent bioavailability of the compound, means that we can dose once daily with no food
effect or need for fasting.
Nearly 70% of patients with cardiovascular disease are not meeting their guideline-directed LDL-
C target, despite high-intensity statin use. This potential best-in-class profile may offer patients a
convenient option to achieve LDL-C targets. We are now moving at pace with AZD0780 into the
next stage of development with a Phase 2B trial ongoing and data expected in the first half of
2025.
In May, we presented data from the Phase 2B MIRACLE trial of balcinrenone with dapagliflozin for
heart failure and CKD. This is one of three novel combinations we are developing that leverage
dapagliflozin as a foundational treatment. The combination offers the benefit of SGLT2 therapy
and leverages the unique mechanism of action and selectivity profile of balcinrenone, an MR
modulator that has been shown to retain the organ-protective effects of MR antagonists without
increasing hyperkalemia.
The MIRACLE trial showed this combination resulted in a numerical decrease in UACR compared
to dapagliflozin alone, and importantly, did not increase hyperkalemia at the doses selected for
Phase 3. These data inform the ongoing BalanceD-HF Phase 3 trial in heart failure patients with
kidney disease.
Currently, only 25% of patients with heart failure and CKD Stage 3b are on MR antagonists as
standard of care due to the risk of hyperkalemia. By combining balcinrenone and dapagliflozin,
we aim to deliver an innovative mechanism to treat a broader population with heart failure and
CKD.
Let's move to the next slide, and I will now hand over to Marc, who will cover our rare disease
portfolio.`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Thank you, Sharon. Can we go to the next slide, please? Rare disease grew 15% to $4.2 billion in
the first half, driven by growth in neurology indications, increased patient demand, and continued
global expansion. As per the previous quarter, the growth rate at CER includes a small benefit
from countries with high inflation.
In the second quarter, Ultomiris revenue grew 36%, with the vast majority of growth coming from
neurology indications, generalized myasthenia gravis, and NMOSD. In PNH, we achieved over
80% conversion to Ultomiris across major markets, and the recent launch of Voydeya is
progressing well, providing benefits for the PNH patients who experience clinically significant
extravascular hemolysis. Beyond complement, Strensiq and Koselugo grew 14% and 45%
respectively, driven by continued patient demand and new launches. Please advance to the next
slide.
In July, we closed our acquisition of Amolyt Pharma, which expands our rare endocrinology
portfolio with the addition of eneboparatide, currently in Phase 3 for patients with
hypoparathyroidism. Hypoparathyroidism is characterized by deficiency in parathyroid hormone
production, which results in significant dysregulation of calcium and phosphate. This can lead to
life-altering symptoms and potentially chronic kidney disease. Hypoparathyroidism most
commonly occurs post-neck surgery, often related to thyroid disease. Many of these patients are
women, and over half of the patients with hypoparathyroidism are peri or post-menopausal
women who are at a greater risk of osteoporosis.
It is one of the largest known rare diseases, with over 250,000 patients across the U.S., EU, and
Japan. Clinical priorities for hypoparathyroidism include a normalization of serum and urine
calcium level, reduction of dependence on daily calcium and vitamin D supplements, as well as
restoring normal bone turnover and preserving bone mineral density.
In May 2024, eneboparatide received fast-track designation from the FDA, reflecting the
seriousness of the disease and the potential for eneboparatide to address the urgent, unmet
need. We anticipate data from the Phase 3 CALYPSO trial in the first half of 2025. And as a
reminder, we expect eneboparatide to be a blockbuster opportunity.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand back to Pascal for closing remarks.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Next slide, please. At our recent Investor Day, we outlined a new ambition for
our company to deliver $80 billion in total revenue by 2030. While this target is ambitious, it is
risk-adjusted, meaning we did not assume all of our programs would be successful.
Importantly, this ambition does not assume future M&A. We also reaffirmed our ambition to
achieve a mid-30s percentage core operating margin by 2026, and we are on track to achieve
this. Beyond 2026, we will target at least a mid-30s percentage core operating margin. Further
progression there will depend on our pipeline and our portfolio evolution.
Finally, given our ongoing pipeline momentum, we upgraded our previous ambition, and we now
expect to launch at least 20 NMEs by the end of the decade and are already well on our way.
Next slide, please.
Illustrated on these slides are the medicines, compounds, and areas that we believe have peak
year revenue potential greater than $5 billion. Importantly, a large number of these are already onthe market, and the majority of those still in development are in registrational trials. In addition,
we believe that by 2030, we will have over 25 medicines delivering at least $1 billion in annual
revenue, almost double the number of blockbusters today. Turn to the next slide, please.
In the first half of the year, we delivered five positive Phase 3 trials and several important new
approvals and launches. Looking ahead, we anticipate readouts from over 40 Phase 3 trials
before the end of 2025, mainly for assets that we believe have greater than $5 billion peak
revenue potential. Importantly, we will be sharing data later this year from multiple early-stage
trials that support investment in potentially high-value disruptive technologies.
This includes data for our bispecific antibodies and in-house antibody drug conjugates, as we
seek to extend our lead in these important innovative areas of oncology, as well as emerging
data for our portfolio of medicines to address weight management, and we look forward to
sharing data from our oral GLP-1 -- GLP glucagon and long-acting amylin in Phase 1 trials.
These are a few of the important investments that will fuel growth to 2030 and beyond. And as
I've said before, by the end of 2025, it will be clear to investors that we are on track for the 2030
goal we've set ourselves, and of course, that relies on the assumption many of those trials, not
necessarily all of them, but many will succeed.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and we will go to the Q&A. As Andy mentioned at the
start of the call, please limit the number of questions you ask to allow others a fair chance to
participate. For those online, please use the Raise Your Hand function on Zoom.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And with that, let's move to the first question, which is from `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Over
to you, Mark.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thank you very much, Pascal. Good morning. Good afternoon, everyone. Two questions.
Could you help us understand what you perceive the sustainability is of growth in the legacy
products that did incredibly well in the second quarter? So I guess I'm talking Symbicort, Pulmicort,
Crestor, Brilinta, Zoladex and Farxiga. So there's a sort of mix of different drivers there, but
emerging market revenue growth was strong in all of these. And so hopefully, you could help us
gain some perspective there.
And then secondly, a question for Susan. For Imfinzi in bladder cancer, obviously, we'll weigh the
NIAGARA data. Can you help us understand the opportunity in the two other trials that are going
to read out in the next 12 months, the August study in MIBC, but also the non-muscle invasive
bladder cancer trial, POTOMAC, which looks very interesting. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mark. Two great questions, and I'll ask Susan to answer the second one. Maybe let me
try to address the first one, which really allows me to make maybe a broader comment on our
upgraded guidance. You've seen our upgraded guidance for the whole year.I think it's important to keep in mind that in this upgraded guidance we expect, in the second half,
we expect continued strength and the same momentum of growth in our core strategic products.
Many of our older products, we also expect to continue growing. There's an area of uncertainty
around two products, Symbicort and Farxiga. Farxiga in particular in China, because we are not yet
sure of the timing of the VBP process. And Symbicort, Ruud could comment on this a little later if
necessary, but in the U.S. in particular, there's some uncertainty around the durability of the
ongoing trend.
Those uncertainties could resolve to the positive, in which case, we would definitely have an
upside versus what we expect today, but it's important to keep in mind that the core strategic
products are very much on track in the second half, good trend, and the area of uncertainty,
which we've reflected in our guidance for the year, mostly relates to those two products,
Symbicort and Farxiga.
With this, Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, thank you. I appreciate the question, Mark. The opportunity for IO in bladder cancer, I think, is
actually significant, and we've obviously seen other trials that are positive, but I'm excited by the
NIAGARA data not just because we've hit on EFS, but OS. And I think this bodes well for the
VOLGA study. Obviously, EV, enfortumab and vedotin, has shown activity both as monotherapy,
but also exciting data in combination with pembro in the first line of bladder cancer. And I think
the opportunity for that combination with durvalumab and with durva plus treme in the VOLGA
study in the perioperative setting is really exciting.
The non-muscle invasive bladder cancer is also a really important indication. And again, given the
NIAGARA data, I think that has to increase the probability that there's a good opportunity there
also for Imfinzi. So excited about, all of this in totality coming together and seeing what the
opportunity is to further improve on the outcomes of patients with bladder cancer at all stages of
the disease.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Maybe, Dave, you could add some further insights on this indication. And then,
Ruud, if you want to comment on Symbicort in particular, I think Farxiga, I have covered it, but if
there is anything you want to add on Symbicort.
Over to you, Dave.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thanks. So, just, Mark, building off Susan's commentary on the studies and the unmet need and
the opportunity, if we take a look at bladder cancer in aggregate, so NIAGARA, VOLGA together
with POTOMAC, I think, and obviously we need to see positive study results, but this is a
blockbuster plus opportunity in aggregate from these. And I think that NIAGARA, as Susan says,
gives good reason to believe in Imfinzi within this bladder cancer setting.
I'd also say that, importantly, these are catalysts that are coming within the '24-'25 period in
terms of the news flow. So we don't have to wait a long time to understand whether those
opportunities will materialize or not.
Ruud?A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, thank you, Dave. So three remarks regarding the Symbicort performance. So, first of all, the
brand remains doing very well, not only in the United States, as you have seen, but also in the
emerging markets. Clearly, the emerging markets, there's no reason to believe that that will slow
down anytime soon. There's a lot of loyalty across the markets and the brands.
The United States is slightly more complex. We saw generic competition entering in the market in
2023. We have launched our own authorized generic some years ago, and EGRET [ph], and I think
that's an important event, we have reduced our list price in the beginning of this year, and we, as
a result of all those three factors, we have seen a very substantial increase of the volumes, but
also regarding our price.
Whether that is sustainable, time will tell, but at least in the short term, we still hope that
Symbicort will remain a very strong brand in the United States.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. So as you can see, there is, of course, uncertainty on Farxiga and Symbicort. As I
said before, if those uncertainties resolve positively over the next few months, then there is
certainly upside. But for now, that's how we see the trend.
`James Gordon, JP Morgan, JPM. James, over to you.
Q - `James Gordon, JP Morgan `
Hello, `James Gordon, JP Morgan, JP Morgan. Thanks for taking the questions. I'll ask a question about
collaboration revenues, because I noticed within the guidance, that's no longer expected to
increase this year. And I can see two elements that it looks like might change. So firstly, for Parp1
and a potential partnership, it looked like the previous guidance maybe allowed for a contribution
for that. But you've now started Phase 3s for prostate and breast, and you're doing that solo.
So is that fair that you're now assuming that you are going to end up doing this product by itself?
And how should we read that? Is that a lack of interest from external partners? Does that mean
the asset doesn't look as exciting? Or are you still as excited about part one as a product, even if
it's just you doing it by yourself?
And the other element, I think, could be that you could have got a milestone from Merck on
Lynparza passing through a sales threshold. So is that right that that could be Lynparza getting just
pushed out a year hitting $3 billion? Or could it be that Lynparza is not topping out? Because I
don't think you gave a peak sales for Lynparza at the Investor Day. Is that because there's some
other things to be wary of, like, for instance, the patent might go in China at the end of this year?
Or do you think it's just you get there, but just a year later to get that milestone? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
A couple of very quick comments, actually, James, great questions. But quick comments before I
hand over to Susan in terms of our confidence in the PARP1, which is very strong, no question
about it. And maybe, Dave, in terms of Lynparza trend.
Very quickly, Lynparza, in China, you really get impacted when you go VBP, not necessarily when
you lose patent protection, as you know very well. So I don't think that's really a factor. A general
comment on collaboration revenue. It's not visible from the outside, of course, but I can tell youany deal we do, whether it's a licensing in or partnership deal, typically, we work one year,
sometimes two years on those deals before we conclude them.
And the reason is, basically, we want to make sure that we set up a partnership that is both
strategically valuable and also creates value for our shareholders, but also is structured in a way
that enables the partnership to be successful. We don't want really to get into partnership when
we cannot operate successfully together with our partners. And all our partnerships, quite frankly,
are extremely successful. We have great relationship with our partners, whether it's Merck,
whether it's Amgen, Daiichi Sankyo. And each time we really make a special effort to make sure
that the whole thing is operationally structured so this is going to be successful.
So the consequence of this is the timing of these partnerships is a little bit unpredictable. And so,
we don't guide specifically on the contents of the collaboration revenue line, just like we don't
guide specifically on the individual product sales. But at this point in our guidance, we concluded
the best is to assume relatively stable collaboration revenue overall. And things can always
change, of course, as we go through the year. But that, we thought, was the best reflection of
where we are at this point.
Dave, do you want to cover the Lynparza-specific question? And then, Susan, you could talk about
the confidence we have in the part one?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Sure. So I was pleased in the second quarter with Lynparza to see that sequentially, we saw 7%
growth in Q2 versus Q1. And I think that what's important to note there is we know that in the U.S.
in particular, we've seen some real negative class pressure, particularly as second-line label
modifications were made just in terms of all of the class going through those elements.
And so I think that in the U.S., Q1 marks the bottom of where we were and that you see
sequential U.S growth coming into the quarter. And I think that's coming from a strength that
we're seeing on driving within breast cancer, continued strength in the areas of front-line ovarian
cancer. And I'm optimistic that we'll continue to see sequential growth in the U.S. moving forward.
As we take a look at Europe and Japan, we also saw sequential growth in those regions. And I
think that that's really, really important as well on Lynparza. International for the quarter, there's
some stocking dynamics in both Brazil and within Russia. Those happen to be our two largest
international markets as we kind of take a look at Lynparza performance.
But I'm optimistic that Lynparza has a good, solid second half sequentially in front of us. And we
continue to focus on our areas and look forward to driving DUO-E and the opportunities that we
have to do that. And I think that that's my outlook for the medicine.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, thank you. And just to add, I'm, really very pleased with the development of sipavibart. First
of all, because in terms of the discovery, it's come from our understanding of how we can
improve on the great medicine that Lynparza is.
And secondly, as the data maturing in both our PETRA and PETRANHA trials, and we've
presented most recent updates earlier this year, as the data mature, both the efficacy and safety
data look really very encouraging to deliver on what we're hoping for from this medicine.
And we do have a broad clinical development plan. You've got two trials that are already posted,opportunities that are being developed. And I think there's going to be a great opportunity for
this to be a very important medicine moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. So I think the key message here in the end is it's very good to see that we are
actually able to upgrade substantially the guidance whilst considering collaboration revenue will
remain stable. So that really reflects a strong momentum in our core business, in particular our
core strategic products, but also our more traditional products in the emerging markets.
And as I said, uncertainty around Symbicort and Farxiga, those may resolve positively. We'll have
to see over the next two to three months. And the collaboration revenue, of course, as always,
like for products, there's always movement and noise in this total forecast, but could also vary
around what we are forecasting today.
Let's move to the next one, which is a question from `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank at Danske. Gonzalo, over to
you.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank `
Hi, good afternoon. Can you hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank `
Okay, great, great. Hi, `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank from Danske Bank. Thank you for taking my questions. I
have a couple. The first one on Dato-DXd. Is there any detail you could provide us in terms of
interactions with the FDA ahead of the PDUFA meeting on TROPION-Lung01 potential approval?
Have you had any sign of a potential outcome meeting? Any detail here would be appreciated.
And the second one, on Truqap, the launch seems that it's going very good. And I was wondering
if you have any hypothesis for it failing also in the biomarker population in the triple negative
breast cancer study, and if you have any pullbacks from your failed study here to the approved
indication. Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Gonzalo. Can I suggest, Susan, you covered Dato, but also Truqap from a sort of a
scientific viewpoint. And Dave, you could say a few words about the trend we see in the market.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you. So the TROPION-Lung01 filing remains under review. Discussions with the FDA are
ongoing. I don't have any new updates to share with you on this filing at the moment. What I
would say in terms of the second half of this year is that in congresses later this year, we've
already announced the TL01 OS high-level results, but we'll share those data at an upcoming
congress. And just as a note, we're also finalizing and making progress on the biomarker work for
TL01. And again, I think we've mentioned this before, but we'll also share updated data on the
biomarker at a congress later this year.
In terms of Truqap, first of all, yes, it was disappointing that we didn't meet the primary end pointwith CAPItello-291 and what we're looking forward to for the CAPItello-281 trial in prostate cancer
is looking at the interaction of AKT and endocrine signaling, both in breast cancer and prostate
cancer.
So in both settings, there's a kind of reciprocal relationship between the endocrine signaling. So
as ER is inhibited, your signaling through the AKT pathway goes up and vice versa. The same with
the antigen receptor and AKT.
So I think one of the things that gives us confidence in the CAPItello-281 indication, which is very
significant, is the data that we've seen from the CAPItello-291 setting in the endocrine-sensitive
breast cancer setting. And again, what we also know is that in the PTEN-null group of prostate
cancer, that's a group that has particularly poor prognosis, and that's the group that we're
focused on for CAPItello-291.
So overall, I think we're very encouraged by the uptake that you've seen with the Truqap launch
following the 291 results, and we look forward to seeing the full potential for this medicine as the
other trials read out.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
So just coming on to the performance, I mean, in short summary, the uptake's been strong. The
adoption of biomarker testing has been also impressive, and I think that the tolerability profile for
the medicine has been really well-received.
The uptake was very rapid in the prevalent population, which you see oftentimes with late-line
approval, second-line plus, like the one that we had. But very importantly, we see that the incident
population, new starts, is also strong, and that's going to be what allows us to continue to grow
moving forward into the half.
Just to reiterate on what Susan said, certainly as a near-term news flow, we look forward to the
281 data for CAPItello-281, opportunity to, if positive, expand into prostate cancer, which is an
important opportunity for this medicine.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan and Dave. And let me just add that, those antibody drug conjugates are often
called smart chemo, but the smart chemo, smart has to be targeted. And targeted means you
need a biomarker, and it's really good to see the progress we're making with the QCS test that
Susan was describing, because that could really have substantial value for Dato and the use of its
agent in lung cancer, in particular, if we could put in place targeted treatment, targeted strategy.
Next question is `Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs at Goldman Sachs. Rajan, over to you.
Q - `Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, hopefully, you can hear me. Thanks for taking my question. So, firstly, could you just maybe
discuss potential implications to Wainua's CARDIO-TTRansform in ATTR-CM, following some
competitor data that we saw last month? Essentially, does that positive data for Amvuttra
increase your confidence in CARDIO-TTRansform? And can you just remind us on timelines for
that trial? I think your partner talked about potentially seeing data in 2025. It'd be good to get
your perspectives on that.
And then secondly, just on Ultomiris, could you maybe just talk to the dynamics that you're seeing
in myasthenia gravis? There's been a couple of your competitors who've also reported strongmarket growth in the setting this morning. So some color on source of patients for Ultomiris and
how you see this evolving on the forward will be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Rajan. Sharon, do you want to cover the first question?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure, and thank you for the question. It's a nice opportunity to draw attention to eplontersen,
which is currently in an ongoing study, CARDIO-TTRansform, to evaluate the efficacy of
eplontersen in ATTR cardiomyopathy. As you mentioned, the HELIOS-B trial read out earlier this
year, which we view as validation of the silencing mechanism to address ATTR amyloidosis. And
we are continuing to progress our own CARDIO-TTRansform study together with our
collaborators, Ionis.
This is the largest-ever study run for ATTR cardiomyopathy and is powered to be able to evaluate
a number of subsets within the study. We want to be sure to give eplontersen the greatest
chance to demonstrate its potential for these patients. And so, with regards to the timing of trial
readout, we are currently tracking towards our previously anticipated timelines and are actively in
discussion with our collaborators as we evaluate the data emerging from HELIOS-B at the
upcoming ESC conference.
I would also remind you that we have additional reasons for optimism. In our polyneuropathy
study in a planned subset analysis, we looked at readouts of cardiac structure and function for
eplontersen and demonstrated a positive benefit within that planned subset analysis. So we look
forward to the full readout of CARDIO-TTRansform.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon.
Marc, Ultomiris?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Yes. So from the beginning of 2023, the growth of the branded market in myasthenia gravis in
the United States, but also around the world, has been very dynamic. And this is accelerating with
the arrival of new clinical options for patients.
So we have -- I have mentioned in my prepared remarks that the growth of Ultomiris for the
second quarter was 36%. And I also said that predominantly, this growth came from myasthenia
gravis and the launch in NMO in the United States. So we are continuing to have a very sustained
growth on neurology indications, both of them, and obviously that of myasthenia gravis together.
We anticipate the growth rate of branded medicine in the myasthenia gravis to remain very solid
and robust in the months and years to come with the arrival of many clinical options.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Marc. Next question is from `Sachin Jain, Bank of America at Bank of America. Sachin, over to
you.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `Thanks. Thanks for taking questions. Just a couple on upcoming pipeline data. So one for Sharon
and then one for Susan. So firstly, for Sharon on obesity, given the moves in the sector, there's
obviously a lot of focus ahead of you presenting data later in the year. So wondering if you could
just comment first on Eccogene and remind us why you think it's best in class and how we should
think about data relative to the 6% weight loss we saw from Roche.
And then on amylin, I wonder if you could just touch on the commentary on mechanism around
calcitonin and potentially better safety relative to the Zealand data, which looked very tolerable.
And then for Susan, just to follow on, on TL01, as we look today for a guess at World Lung, I
wonder if you could comment on the importance of the non-squam subset being nominally
significant and whether the FDA is focused there at all in your recent interactions. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sachin. Should we start with Dato and TL01, Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
So, obviously the FDA are interested in seeing the OS data and following the readout that we
have shared the OS data with the FDA. And as I've said, we will share the OS data at an
upcoming congress in the second half.
So I think, we can answer the questions, once we've shared the data really on that point.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. Sharon, obesity? Two sub-questions. Sachin likes the sub-questions. So one is
Eccogene best in class, and the second is amylin and the safety profile and particularly calcitonin
dimension to this.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Yes, thank you, Sachin, for the questions. And thank you for the focus on our weight management
portfolio. So your first question was about ECC-5004, the molecule that we in-licensed from
Eccogene and together are bringing forward with our collaborators at Eccogene.
So I'll remind everyone that this is an orally bioavailable GLP-1 receptor agonist that is suitable for
once-daily dosing and has demonstrated a very positive PK-PD profile. We moved forward into a
Phase 1 study, which read out earlier this year, that was a highly controlled inpatient four-week
study in monotherapy, and we look forward to sharing the full results of that study at a major
medical conference later this year.
That study, like all Phase 1s, was designed to demonstrate safety and target engagement. We
saw no red flags in that study, and we are encouraged to move forward with two Phase 2B
studies launching later this year, one in type 2 diabetes and one in obesity.
I would note that 5004 is not our only focus in weight management and that we are exploring
both incretin and non-incretin pathways. And you referred to this when you asked about our
amylin molecule. So AZD6234 is our long-acting amylin agonist. And we, like others in the field,
are aware that balancing selectivity between amylin and calcitonin is a really important feature for
these molecules.We know that amylin itself promotes satiety and protects lean muscle mass. And we think that
selectivity for amylin over calcitonin offers a better tolerability profile. Now, as a field, we're trying
to understand how exactly to dial in that selectivity. But to date, the profile that we have
generated with AZD6234 looks very positive. And we will be sharing updates on Phase 1 progress
for AZD6234, as well as AZD9550, which is our dual GLP-1 glucagon agonist at an upcoming
meeting. Thank you.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. Next question is from `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research at Wolfe. Tim, over to you.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A couple of questions. On Dato, you have a Phase 3 TROPION-Breast02 frontline
triple negative data coming out this year. And it's on a similar timeline as Gilead's Phase 3
ASCENT-03 trial. These are fairly similar in design. So that means we should be able to do a
reasonably like-for-like comparison of your drug to Trodelvy, which will help test whether your
drug is better as Astra often claims it is. So can you just frame out what you think we'll see and
whether on side-by-side comparison, are we likely to conclude that your drug is better?
And then second question on emerging markets, notable because in aggregate, they are higher
in sales than what your European sales are and the growth is high. My question is on margins in
emerging markets. You had at one point given some metrics on operating margins. How do
those compare today? How margin dilutive are they going forward? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tim. Maybe a quick comment on the first one. We've said before that the emerging
markets, they're not uniform. It varies by sub-region to sub-region. But if you look at them in
aggregate, you don't get there the level of operating margin you typically get in the U.S., of
course, as we can understand, as we can expect. But we get operating margins that are certainly
viable and supportive of continuing to invest in this region. It's probably closer to European setup
than the U.S. setup. But definitely driving a lot of growth and a lot of profit and cash flow,
ultimately.
So good place to be, especially when you consider products like cardiovascular products, obesity
products that you can deliver in an oral form. And then you're not talking about addressing the
needs of patients in the U.S. primarily and a little bit in Europe, but you can address the needs of
address the needs of patients around the world. And then the volume upside is enormous, as
you can see every day with Farxiga and its development, or even Symbicort or Tezspire.
So overall, I think we are very happy to be in the emerging markets. It drives our growth, and the
margin aspect is included in our outlook anyway.
So, Susan, did I give you enough time for the Dato question? Go ahead.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Pascal, and thank you for the question. So, first of all, just as a reminder, the things that
are different about Dato-DXd versus some of the other TROP2 ADCs is that because we've gota stable linker, stable in the peripheral circulation, cleavable in the microenvironment, that means
that you've got a longer half-life with this drug. And it also means that as the drug is delivered to
the cancer cells that express TROP2, that the internalization is an important factor in the activity.
What that reflects is this lower free payload in the peripheral circulation, and that leads to lower
bone marrow toxicity events. And we've already shown that in multiple trials that you can do in
the cross-trial comparison. So you've got lower discontinuation rates, lower bone marrow-related
adverse events, and that, I think, will also translate through to in terms of the durability on
treatment.
Now, we have seen already that we know, and we know, that the levels of sensitivity to TROP2-
based ADCs is high in the breast cancer setting, particularly in the triple-negative breast cancer
setting. So we are optimistic about the results of the TROPION-Breast02 data, and I hope that
this will confirm that, we have what is a best-in-class TROP2 ADC in that setting and in other
settings as well.
Reminder that, of course, in lung cancer, one of the advantages of that lower bone marrow
toxicity profile is also that you can combine it with chemotherapy, which I think some of the other
TROP2 ADCs struggle to do. So overall, very confident about the profile that we have with this
drug, and the opportunity for it in multiple settings, not just in lung and breast cancer, but other
settings as well. And I do think that the biomarker work that we've done in lung cancer is
something that will also help us differentiate this molecule across a range of other different
indications.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. Also, a good opportunity to remind everybody that Dato is also under review
for the breast cancer indication, and that's included in our outlook for the next few months.
The next question is `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question. Maybe a question on Imfinzi in light of the advisory committee
taking place this week. Just your anticipation on the decision we might see today in light of those
agency briefing documents, and in particular, I'm interested to understand your -- the company's
decision to effectively ignore long-standing agency advice on that perioperative trial design. And
what it might imply in terms of the outlook for the asset in early lung cancer in light of the BR.31
miss. So give us some thoughts in terms of midterm growth implications where we'd see a
negative decision on the approval of AEGEAN.
And then a quick follow-on on Farxiga, just your latest expectations on the potential timing and
magnitude in terms of range of potential price reduction we could be looking at under VBP
inclusion. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Susan, do you want to cover the first one? Will you take the second one? Or Leon, if
we are sure we have Leon on the line because I can't see him, right? Is he here? Okay, cool.
Okay, so maybe, Susan, you start, and Leon, you'll cover the second question.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `Yes, sure. Thank you. So as you've noted, Emmanuel, the ODAC, Oncology Drug Advisory
Committee for discussing perioperative trial designs is happening later today. So it's probably
best not to make too many comments apart from the fact that AEGEAN has met its primary
endpoint in both pathologic complete response and a statistically significant and clinically
meaningful improvement in event-free survival, which is also recognized in the briefing document.
I do think there's a discussion that the FDA wants to have about the future design of
perioperative trial designs in general. As you have the opportunity for add-on designs and
potentially an increase in pathologic complete response rate, then there's a debate about the
relative contribution of continuing combination treatments into the adjuvant setting.
The other note I would say is, of course, we've got a very well-established safety profile for
Imfinzi in the treatments of early-stage lung cancer built off the PACIFIC data that we've had. And
so, I think that the profile for Imfinzi is well-established in that setting and we look forward to the
discussion, and I think that will help inform future trial designs.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Very good. Leon, if you're still on the line, can you cover the second question, Farxiga?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International and China President `
Yes, I think there's still uncertainty about when Farxiga will have VBP, but if it does come, it should
be later this year. So I think there usually will be some price cut, but there's no exact -- it will be
different product by product, usually less than 30%, but different product by product.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, thank you, Leon.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Next question is `Peter Welford, Jefferies at Jefferies.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies `
Hi, yes, thanks for taking my questions. Two. First of all, just for Aradhana, if I can, just on the
costs. I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about how we should think about the phasing
perhaps, not asking for specifics, but any specific thing in terms of how we should think about the
relative weighting of the costs that you think about this year for both SG&A and R&D in the first
versus the second half. You gave some helpful commentary on the gross margin for us.
And then secondly, just going back to Dato, I wonder if we can press Susan, has the FDA
definitively said yet there will not be an adcom for TL01, or is that question still open? And I'm
wondering if you could just set the scene for us for AVANZAR, please, going into next year.
Obviously, potentially an important study for the future of this molecule. You've talked a bit about
the biomarker work. I guess when you've looked at that biomarker work, how that sort of impacts
your thinking now for the AVANZAR analysis. Or there's nothing really changed there. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Susan, do you want to start, and then, Aradhana?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Sure. So I think, obviously, you're aware of the PDUFA date for Dato-Dxd, and our experience with
the announcement of advisory committees is that that can happen at any point during the review
period. So as I said, I don't have any updates to share with you today on the Dato-Dxd filing for
TL01.
In terms of AVANZAR, I do think this is an important study, and I do think that we will be sharing at
a congress later this year some of the data from our NEOCOAST-2 trial, which is in the
neoadjuvant setting of non-small cell lung cancer, including the combination of Dato-Dxd and
Imfinzi. And again, you'll be aware that we've previously shared the data from the BEGONIA study
in triple-negative breast cancer, and that combination in that setting had an unprecedented 79%
response rate and very durable responses.
So those data, together with the TL02 and the TL04 data, give us encouragement about, first of
all, the safety and combinability, not just with Imfinzi alone, but also with platinum-based
chemotherapy. And I think that's important, because that can enhance the response rate in that
setting.
But I also think that the biomarker work is important for AVANZAR, because it can potentially give
us an opportunity to focus on the optimal benefit-risk profile within both the AVANZAR study and
the TROPION-Lung10 studies, which obviously looks at the combination with rilvegostomig, our
PD-1 TIGIT molecule.
So I am optimistic about the potential for the combination of Dato plus IO in the front-line setting.
I'm optimistic about the potential for the optimization of the benefit-risk using the biomarker
data. And I look forward to the NEOCOAST-2 data, sharing some of that optimism as we move
this combination into the earlier lines.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. And I would just add that what Susan said in terms of the better or improved
benefit-risk profile with this biomarker, it certainly would be a great help also in countries where
access is more challenging, especially in Europe where you can show higher value for your
medicine. So, lots of reasons to expect to need this AVANZAR data in the long run for Dato and
the reimbursement.
Aradhana, gross phasing?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Thanks for the question. So, just to give you a little more color, I talked a little bit about
gross margins, and as you know, there are a couple of products that are more seasonal and that
have some impact on gross margins.
In terms of R&D, we likely will be on the higher end of the low 20s that we've always signaled,
and it's also because we're accelerating a number of our studies, which you've seen in the clinical
trial appendix, but also because we've added a number of projects with the closing of the Amolyt
transaction, Fusion, Gracell, et cetera. And so, all of those are accelerating, but again, well within
the range that we've always signaled will be included. So, I think you can get there.In terms of SG&A, again, we, in terms of the second half, we'll be sort of lockstep with how the
revenue growth is driven. We continue to invest behind many of the brands we've launched with
Airsupra and Wainua. We'll also move into new areas, like with bladder cancer in NIAGARA, and so
there'll be some market-shaping investments.
In addition, the companies we've acquired that I just mentioned, we're also operating them a
little bit independently in keeping those capabilities, so there's some SG&A that comes with that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Now, maybe just a last quick comment is that, if you remember last quarter, we had a
sort of a bump in expenses that came as a surprise to some of you, and we don't expect this
year to have the same pattern in Q4.
The other thing that I would like to add maybe is building on what Aradhana said in terms of study
moving well is, in the last couple of years, the teams have done a lot of work to increase the
speed and also look at the cost of the way we conduct clinical trials, and the result of it is that
both in oncology and outside of oncology and biopharm, we're also moving very fast with many
of our clinical trials that are quite ahead.
Now, the upside of this is we will launch our medicines earlier if the studies are positive, but of
course, it means the costs are more upfront than we might have expected. Overall, I think we
should all read this as a positive. Our studies are moving very well, and in many cases, much
faster than we had expected.
The next question is `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim. Seamus, go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim `
Thanks very much for the question. So just one on Enhertu and then a second on obesity and the
CV/Met portfolio. On Enhertu, Dave, I was hoping you could comment on the growth in Enhertu. I
think there was some impact in China that you mentioned in the quarter, but historically, I think
expectations were for this to be growing to a $10 billion to $15 billion product potentially as
additional indications come through.
We've seen a number of those indications certainly come through and succeed, but the question
I think that we're getting from investors is why the growth isn't stronger, given the very robust
sort of PFS data set. So I think there's just a little confusion as to where we are in the life cycle of
Enhertu and kind of the next drivers that we see going forward.
And then the question on obesity is really just more strategic. And this is for Pascal, as much as
anything, how are you thinking about the overall obesity space strategically? Some are moving
very aggressively forward, jumping perhaps before really defining the clinical profile of the asset.
Others are pushing dosing very aggressively in Phase 1 to try to achieve more weight loss. What
do you see as perhaps the problems with some of these development decisions?
But separately, how do you think about the broader opportunity for AstraZeneca in this space
with your oral programs and your injectables? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Seamus. Two great questions. Dave, do you want to cover the first one?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `Yes. Seamus, I have an outlook for the second half of the year on Enhertu to return to more
robust sequential growth and I can go into why on that. In terms of where we are in the life cycle, I
think we're in the early innings. And so, I'll go into more on that as well.
For the quarter itself, sequentially, we see that the U.S. had underlying growth and sequential
demand growth. I think that some of the effects that you see sequentially within the quarter, and
you alluded to this, come to that we had quite a bit of destocking happening in China following a
stock-up in Q1. We talked about that last quarter. We saw that come through.
I expect all of China, Europe, and U.S. to be growing as we move into the second half. Now, in
order to get that growth, I think a couple of things come into play. We know that we need to
continue to move into some of the harder yards.
With DB03, we've seen nice progression. We're now probably between 55% and 60% share with
DB03 and need to continue even further and to clear standard of care zone.
With HER2-low, really nice progression within Europe. Again, I think that we need to continue to
work on changing some of the inertia and embedded behaviors that have existed in the past to
get to the share gains that we have.
DB06 has not yet been included in the NCCN guidelines. We expect that when the committee
meets, that that's something that will happen. I think that that'll be a catalyst.
I mean, then obviously as we take a look at, the road ahead, and Susan alluded to this before, in
2025 we have an opportunity for early metastatic and adjuvant readouts with DESTINY-Breast09,
DESTINY-Breast11.
We're also in the early innings with outside of breast cancer with the progress that I mentioned
on good early awareness on tumor agnostic, and I think that we'll continue to see nice growth
there as well. So Enhertu remains an area where we expect this to be a very important medicine,
both for us and also for oncology.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. So let me try with your second question. Actually, Seamus, it's a great question,
and then maybe Ruud or Sharon, if you want to add. So let me just make two overall points, first
of all.
First of all, we look at this beyond obesity. We actually look at it in the context of what has been
recently called CKM, cardiac kidney metabolism. So you really have to look at the patients
holistically, and that is what we have been working on for years.
The pipeline we have today, not only for weight management obesity, but also for hypertension,
for kidney disease, et cetera, is actually a pipeline that we've been working on for quite some
time. Of course, also the oral PCSK9, which we think has enormous potential. So that's the first
comment.
The second is, we have a plan. We have a plan for weight management obesity, and I'm really
excited because we have already the plan for Phase 2, Phase 3. We've approved this plan. Of
course, we will unlock Phase 3 at the appropriate time when we see our Phase 2 results, but
we're very confident we have a plan.
I'm also very excited because the person in charge of that plan is the person who built Crestor,
historically, and developed a fantastic clinical plan, and same person who led the team, whoactually developed Farxiga in renal disease, in heart disease, and built it to, essentially from a
clinical viewpoint, of course, built it to what we have today. And now she's going to do, together
with the team in charge, doing the same, I'm sure, with this franchise.
So going into more details, the way we look at it is that there are really two markets in our view, in
my view. One is what I would call the weight management. Weight management is people who
have a BMI below 28, 30. That's actually many of us above maybe the age of 45, 50. And we
need to lose a few kilos, and maybe people have additional risk factors. It could be hypertension,
could be diabetes, could be dyslipidemia. And these people, they really need a simple regimen,
oral regimen with a simple dose, and then combine this with a number of medicines we have in
development, whether it's baxdrostat, dapa, and a number of others, of course.
So that's one part. The other market is what people call obesity. And everybody calls this whole
group of patients obesity. Obesity is clearly defined. It's people who have a higher BMI. And in
that group, you need a titration up. You need higher doses of GLP-1s. You need combinations,
because you need to improve the quality of the weight loss. More fat loss, less weight loss. And
in that context, we need combinations. And that's what Sharon was talking about. We're looking
forward to presenting new data, additional data for some of our other products in this franchise.
So really two separate parts. And then the last part is, of course, diabetes, traditional diabetes for
GLP-1. So we have a plan for all those segments. We're ready to go. Phase 2 will start very soon.
And then as soon as we have the results, of course, we unlock Phase 3. And our team has proven
in the past that they are really excellent at delivering cardiovascular studies. We've done it with
dapa many times. We've done it before in the old days with Crestor and other medicines. And we
really have a great team to run this.
So that's really how we see it. And sort of we have optionality around the pipeline. But really, what
we're trying to do is what we presented to you at Investor Day is leverage the strengths of the
pipeline. Some people say you have a broad pipeline. Well, it's on purpose. Because in
cardiovascular disease, we want to treat patients holistically, not only help them lose weight, but
also treat the other risk factors, the same as we do in oncology.
Anything you guys would like to add, Ruud, or Sharon?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
No, the only piece is, and it's obvious, but if you look at the percentage of diagnosed patients
with comorbidity, and more than 60% of the diagnosed obese, overweight patients have one or
more comorbidities. And I think we are somewhat in a unique position with our pipeline, with an
oral PCSK9, clearly with dapagliflozin. There's more and more scientific evidence that the two
mechanisms of action are really synergistic in order to protect the heart, the kidney, and the
pancreas, hence our enthusiasm about those combinations.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And maybe one last point is that some people, I saw, have speculated because we
talk about risk factors, we are not confident in our GLP-1. I mean, nothing could be further from
the truth.
We're very confident in the GLP-1. What we want to tell everybody is that we need a simple
regimen for the GLP-1 in the weight management segment, people with low BMI but still need to
lose weight. And then here, you need a simple regimen in a combination with other agents.The higher BMI group, you need to titrate up. You need to combine with other weight loss
agents. So those are really two separate segments. And we are addressing both with a very
ambitious plan.
So moving to the next question, maybe Matt Weston at UBS.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you, Pascal. Two questions, please. The first is a follow-up to Aradhana on James' question
about collaboration income. I understand there may be a degree of uncertainty, but given that we
had a lump sum in our model, is that something we should think about now falling into 2025, or
it's something we should just stop considering, full stop?
And then secondly, either for Dave or Pascal, there continues to be a lot of investor debate on
the secondary consequences of Medicare Part D reform as insurers take on 60% of catastrophic
risk. Companies that have commented seem to have very different views, ranging from no
impact to a meaningful increase in rebates. Where does Astra stand based on your current
interactions with insurers and PDMs ahead of the January 1st date? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So Dave, maybe you could cover the second part. I mean, I think maybe a quick comment on this
Part D piece actually, Matt, is that I think you're going to hear different responses from different
companies based on the type of products, portfolio they have, because it affects more some
products than others. And we see this in our own company, different products are affected
differently.
So you're going to have low impact to high impact to medium impact. So it really, really depends
on the overall portfolio we have. In our case, we have a portfolio that, as you know, covers
primary care all the way to more expensive specialty care products. So we are kind of a mix of
things.
So maybe Dave, you want to cover this in more details, and then Aradhana, will you cover the CR
question, collaboration revenue?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Matt, on your primary question around how Part D contracting is going, we're still in the midst of
finalizing Part D contracting for 2025. I think that within that context as ever, the importance on a
differentiated product profile is the most important element as we enter into those discussions.
Certainly, we've seen more focus on the payers on how they think about clinical differentiation
and competition but again, these are the same discussions that we've always been having with
payers and where it's incumbent upon us to make sure that we're differentiating our medicines
and showing the clinical value that they can provide. And I think that our oncology portfolio in
particular is well suited for that.
While not necessarily part of your question, I think it's also worth noting on Part D that we are
seeing the improvements in patient affordability or the reduction in patient out-of-pocket to be
translating into more patients being able to have access to medicines within what I would call kind
of your normal distribution channels. So outside of free programs. We're also seeing signs of
improvements within abandonment.So I think that these are positive aspects that come out of IRA. And so while in aggregate, I think
that IRA represents a couple of headwinds that we've spoken through, I think that they're
manageable and I think we've got a portfolio that allows us to grow through it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe a couple of additional points, if I may, is that next year we'll see additional improvements
to the changes that Dave was talking about in terms of access. One is the total copay, annual
copay will drop to $2,000 from $3,600, I believe this year, or $3,400, $3,500. So it will drop.
The second one, which is I think really meaningful is you'll have the smoothing. So the $2,000 will
be divided by 12 while this year, people are still hit by the $3,500 up front. So those really
changes should further improve access to our medicines, I would hope, and that's why we
believe, as Dave said, that it's manageable.
Aradhana? The collaboration revenue?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, on the collaboration revenue, again, we're obviously not going to give guidance for 2025.
But the upgrade that we did on our guidance is again based on the strength of our underlying
business and the performance in both product sales and alliance revenue.
The collaboration revenue generally includes things like sales-based milestones or potential
transactions. And again, they remain uncertain. Our guidance is, upgraded guidance is based on
the assumption that there's no increase in CR versus last year. But again, we've considered
various scenarios, including a decline. And we've based our revised guidance based on our
current best estimates.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana.
Next question is from Mathias Ekblom at Anders Banken. Mathias, over to you.
Q - Analyst
Thanks so much for taking the question, which is related to IRA and any early effects in terms of
development decisions affecting your pipeline. A leading CRO recently called out there had been
cancellations of large planned clinical trials within big pharma in response to IRA.
I'm curious if AstraZeneca already at this stage has made similar decisions to sacrifice certain
small molecule assets, perhaps at perhaps at the benefit of a biological or more complex
molecule due to IRA. And if so, maybe you could share any concrete examples with us. But in
addition, perhaps talk about how IRA has changed the way you think about business
development as well as resource allocation internally.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So maybe let me try this one, is that suddenly a challenge for small molecules, there is no
question, but as you can see from our pipeline and our investments, what we've communicated
as we move forward, we're investing in bispecifics, cell therapy, ADCs, radioconjugates, and all of
those agents are, of course, I'm stating the obvious, they're not small molecules. So in a way, weare shifting a little bit away from small molecules. It doesn't mean we're not going to be in small
molecules, we will be.
Now, what IRA will mean for us is, and that's really unfortunate actually, but it will mean we will
develop those indication -- if you think of a product that has a small indication to start with, we will
develop these smaller indications, we will launch them around the world, but in the U.S., we will
have to wait before we file because we can't start the clock for a small indication where we would
record low sales for a couple of years or three years. Lynparza would have been a good example
of this. So that's one issue.
The other issue is on the back end of it. If a product is, say for instance, an orphan medicine, and
a new indication will change that status, we may consider not launching it in the U.S. So those are
some of the implications of the IRA, and those are quite unfortunate, but this is what it is. And
we're working now to try to advocate for a change, for a fix to the IRA that would address this
issue of what we call orphan indications or orphan diseases.
Anything any of you want to add? No? Good.
`Peter Verdult, Citi at Citi. Peter?
Q - `Peter Verdult, Citi `
Yes, sorry. Hopping from one conference call to another. Peter Veldurt here from Citi. Thanks for
taking my questions. Just two. I think I just want to round out some of the points that you've been
making through the day. Just first for Dave. I know it's barely seven weeks since ASCO, and
you've not yet got NCCN updates for DESTINY-Breast06, but are there any early KPI changes you
can point to, for Tagrisso and Imfinzi and Enhertu post those plenary data drops?
And then lastly for Aradhana, I know you've talked to some of these points, but just so
everyone's absolutely clear, am I right to assume you've assumed flat collaboration revenue, but
risks are probably to the upside for this year? You haven't assumed these gross to net favorable
dynamics are continuing, even though they might, and you have assumed that Farxiga is getting
hit by VBP this year. I know you don't want to probably go through every assumption ad nauseam,
but just any help on those three points would be gratefully received. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Peter. Maybe unless you understood, Aradhana, the second question, I was
not clear about the gross to net, what you actually meant by this.
Q - `Peter Verdult, Citi `
The favorable adjustment -- I think there's some favorable gross to net dynamics on Symbicort in
the U.S.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
I see. Okay. Aradhana, do you want to cover that?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. As I mentioned, we've assumed that we have flat collaboration revenue. As Leon mentioned,
there is still some risk to the Farxiga VBP that we've assumed in our plan. And I think we've againassumed some risk in terms of uncertainty from the Symbicort pricing dynamics as well in our
latest guidance.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. David?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
So I think that the first point to highlight is that LAURA resulted in guideline changes within 12 days.
So I think that's a very first clear indicator of a good response and outstanding response to one
of the key presentations that we had at ASCO.
ADRIATIC, we've heard good interest from our medical interactions. Obviously, we're not
approved yet for ADRIATIC. And so there's good enthusiasm there. We're still looking forward to
the manuscript being published for that.
Similarly, on DB06, I mentioned before, we're waiting for guidelines to change there. I think that
those guideline changes will be important elements to seeing a change from an interest, an
awareness, an excitement translating then into KPIs that suggest utilization.
I would also say that within the DB06 setting, we know that based on the DB04 results, we had
already seen utilization happening spontaneously in that setting from others. In fact, it could be as
much as, one in four to one in five that we're seeing there.
Q - `Peter Verdult, Citi `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David.
Next question. Maybe we'll take the last one with `Luisa Hector, Berenberg at Berenberg. Luisa, over to you.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Okay, thanks for taking my question. Maybe just a couple left. So you had some Phase 2 starts in
oncology where I was curious to just understand the hypothesis. So that's the Fusion asset in
prostate cancer and also the antifolate ADC in ovarian, and I think happy to hear what you hope
to show with those trials. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thanks, Louisa. So the folate receptor alpha product is one of the ADCs that we have come out
of our own proprietary in-house portfolio of linker and topoisomerase 1 payload. So we have a B7-
H4, and the folate receptor alpha, and the EGFR MET bispecific, plus a CD123 for AML in
hematologic malignancies.
So, we're actually seeing encouraging data across all of these projects. We look forward to
sharing some of those data in upcoming congress later this this year. Folate receptor alpha isalready a validated target in ovarian cancer. And we've shared previously some preclinical data
that suggests that we have activity at lower levels of folate receptor alpha expression than the
current approved medicine out there, mirvetuximab, in that setting. So preclinically, this looks
differentiated, and we look forward to showing the clinical data. So we're excited about the
profile that we've seen.
For the lead asset from the Fusion portfolio, which is FPI-2265. This is an alpha-emitting Actinium-
225 radioconjugate with PSMA target. And again, PSMA is already a validated target in prostate
cancer, highly expressed in prostate tissue with the obviously, the approval of Pluvicto in that
setting. We presented some data, the TATCIST data, or I should say our Fusion colleagues
presented data from the TATCIST data, earlier this year, which showed activity in patients that
had prior Pluvicto, as well as patients that were naive. And I think this reinforces the confidence
that alpha-emitting particles can be differentiated from beta.
The reason for that, I described a little bit at the Investor Day. But as a reminder, alpha particles
are much heavier. They don't travel as far, and they give up their energy over very short distance,
which mean they don't treat as much normal tissue, and they give a lot of the dose to the cancer
cells. So we have the opportunity to be different in this space, and that's why we're excited. The
Phase 2 start there is for a study called AlphaBreak, which is, it's a Phase 2, but potentially
fileable, from that setting. So this is a very exciting project. We look forward to showing more of
those data in the coming one to two years.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. So we'll stop here. And before we close, let me just make a few closing
remarks. The first of all is that we are very pleased to upgrade our guidance, and it's, as I said
before, based slowly on -- only on the strengths of our business. And we believe our key
medicines will continue to perform well in the second half.
There is some uncertainty around a couple of products, as I mentioned, and the collaborative
revenue also could vary. But, at this point, we thought, this is a reasonable guidance to provide
the market. And, of course, if things resolved to the positive on some of those products, we
definitely would look to an upside.
We're very much on track with our strategic ambitions, whether it's top-line revenue for 2030 or
profitability or the number of NMEs to deliver by 2030. Hopefully, this second quarter
demonstrates we're on track. In terms of catalysts, let me comment a little bit on those. First of
all, catalysts for the second half of this year, we have TROPION-Breast02 that will read out. We
have capivasertib, CAPItello-281. And we also have, we haven't talked about this one, we also
have the Tezspire WAYPOINT study that will read out. We'll also present data, and this data, we
believe, important.
First of all, we'll, we have TL01 OS, we also have NIAGARA, we'll also present our QCS biomarker
data for Dato, which we believe will create potential, substantial value over time because it will
definitely differentiate us in the TROP2 market with a very differentiated strategy in terms of
testing.
We also will present data with our bispecific, volrustomig and rilvegostomig in lung cancer, and
Relve [ph] in gastric at Congress this year. And we'll also present data with our ADCs, the B7-H4
and folate receptor alpha.
On the biopharma side, we will also present at a relevant congress related to obesity later this
year, we'll present the data for our GLP-1, but also additional data for our two injectables, theamylin and the GLP-1 glucagon. And all of those three together, they represent $5 billion
opportunities, $5 billion peak revenue opportunities each, so a very important franchise.
And then if you move forward into 2025, we have AMPLIFY, which I think is a very important
indication that is a blockbuster indication, actually. So we are looking forward to this data, they're
very important. We'll have SERENA-6, which will give a first view of camizestrant and its potential,
a very important product for the future for us. We'll have AVANZAR result, as Susan mentioned
before, a very important set of data. We will have early-stage results with Enhertu, DB09 and
DB11. And finally in biopharma, we'll have baxdrostat in hypertension and controlled hypertension.
There's more to the news flow, of course, but those are the most important ones, and as you can
see, we have a rich news flow coming out over the next few months.
So with this, let me thank you very much and wish you a good rest of the day.