Q3 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Tesla's Third Quarter 2024 Q&A webcast. My name
is `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations, and I'm joined today by `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer, `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer,
and a number of other executives.
Our Q3 results were announced at about 3:00. P.M. Central Time in the update deck we
published at the same link as this webcast. During this call, we will discuss our business outlook
and make forward-looking statements. These comments are based on our predictions and
expectations as of today. Actual events or results could differ materially due to a number of risks
and uncertainties, including those mentioned in our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow-up. Please use the raise hand button to join the question queue. Before we jump into
Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So to recap, [ph]as some listening is extra someone or anyone in the industry have
seen year-over-year declines in order volumes in Q3, Tesla at the same time has achieved record
deliveries. In fact, I think if you look at EV companies worldwide, to the best of my knowledge, no
EV companies even profitable and I'm not -- to the best of my knowledge, there is no EV division
of any company -- of any existing order company that is profitable.
So it is notable that Tesla is profitable despite a very challenging automotive environment and
this quarter actually is a record Q3 for us. So we produced our 7-millionth vehicle actually just
yesterday, so congratulations to the teams that made it happen to Tesla. That's a staggeringly
immense amount of work to make 7 million cars.
So let's see. And we also have -- the energy storage business is growing like wildfire with strong
demand for both Megapack and Powerwall. And as people know, on October 10th, we laid out a
vision for an autonomous and liquid future that I think is very compelling to us. The Tesla team did
a phenomenal job there with actually giving people an opportunity to experience the future
where you have humanoid robots walking among the crowd, not with the cam video presentation
or anything but officially walking among the crowd, serving drinks and whatnot.And we had 50 autonomous vehicles. There were 20 Cybercabs, but there were an additional 30
Model Y's operating fully autonomously the entire night carrying thousands, -- thousands of
people -- thousands of people's drink with no incidents the entire night. So -- and for those who
went there that it's worth emphasizing that the Cybercab had no steering wheel or brake or
accelerated pedals. Meaning there was no -- there's no possible -- there was no way for anyone
to intervene manually even if they wanted to and the whole night went very smoothly.
So regarding the vehicle business, we are still on track to deliver more affordable models starting
in the first half of 2025. You know, this is -- I think probably people are wondering what should
they assume for vehicle -- vehicle sales growth next year. And at the risk of -- to take a bit of risk
here, I do want to give some rough estimate, which is I think it's 20% to 30% vehicle growth next
year. You know, notwithstanding negative external events, like if there's some portion mature
events like some big war breaks out or interest rates go sky high or something like that, then we
can't overcome massive force mature events. But I think with our lower-cost vehicles with the
advent of autonomy, something like 20% to 30% growth next year is my best case.
And then Cybercab reaching volume production in '26. We do feel confident of Cybercab
reaching volume production in '26, not just starting production, but reaching volume production in
'26 and that -- that should be substantial growth. We're aiming for at least 2 million units a year of
Cybercab and that'll be in more than one factory but I think it's at least 2 million units here maybe
$4 million ultimately. So, yeah, these are just my best guesses but if you ask for my best guesses,
those are my best guesses.
The 46 -- the cell 4680 lines, the team is actually doing great work there. The 4680 is rapidly
approaching the point where it is the most competitive cell. So when you consider the fully -- the
fully landed -- the cost of a battery pack fully landed in the US net of incentives and duties about
the 4680 is tracking to be the most competitive, maybe lower cost [ph]because what are fully
considered than any other alternative, which is -- and I'm not quite there yet, but we're -- we're
close to being there, which I think is extremely exciting. And we've got several -- a lot of ideas to
go well beyond that.
So if I think there's -- if we execute well, the 4680, we'll have the Tesla internally produced cell
will be the most cost-competitive cell in something [ph] in North America. A testament to a
tremendous amount of hard work there by the team. So that's the rule. We'll continue to buy a lot
of sales from our competitors. Our intent is not to make -- to provide -- to make sales just
internally. So I don't want to set off any involved males [ph] here. We're obviously increasing
substantially our vehicle output and our stationary storage output. So we need a lot of sales. And
most of them will still come from suppliers, but I think it is -- it is some good news that the Tesla
internal cell is likely -- is tracking to be the most competitive in the U.S..
So with respect to autonomy, as people are experiencing in the cars really from week-to-week,
there are significant improvements in the miles between interventions. So with the new version
12.5 release of -- also driving Cybertruck, the -- combining the code into a single stack so that the
city driving and the engine and highway driving are on one stack, which is a big improvement for
the highway driving so it's just all neural nets and the release of actually Smart Summon.
We try to have a sense of humor here at Tesla. And we're also -- so that's 12.5. Version13 of FSD
is going out soon. Shortly, we'll elaborate more on that later in the call. We expect to see roughly
a 506-volt improvement in miles between interventions compared to 12.5. And actually -- looking
at the year as a whole, the improvement in miles between interventions, we think will bring at
least three orders of magnitude. So that's a very dramatic improvement in the course of the year.
And we expect that trend to continue next year.So the current -- the current internal expectation -- internal expectation for the Tesla FSD having
longer miles between convention than human is the second quarter of next year, which means it
may end up being the third quarter, but it's next -- it seems extremely likely to be next year.
Ashok, do you want to -- maybe you want to?
`Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Yeah. And mentioning miles between critical interventions, yeah, like you mentioned Elon, we
already made a 100 times improvement with 12.5 from starting of this year and then V13 release,
we expect to be 100 times from the beginning from January of this year on my production
release software. And this came in because of technology improvements going to end-to-end,
having higher frame rate, partly also helped by hardware force, more capabilities, and so on. And
we hope that we continue to scale the neural network, the data, the training compute, et cetera.
By Q2 next year, we should cross over the average human minds for critical intervention probably
collision in that case.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean that has just unbarnished our internal estimate.
`Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Yes, yeah.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
So that does not sound baggy or anything else. Our internal estimate is Q2 of next year to be
safe in human and then to continue with rapid improvements thereafter. So the vast majority of
humanity has no idea what Tesla provide themselves. So especially for something like a Model 3
or Model Y, it looks like a normal car. So you don't expect normal car to be able to be intelligent
enough to drive itself. The Cybercab looks different but Model Y and Model 3 are -- look --
they're good-looking cars but they look fairly normal. You don't expect a barely normal looking car
to have the intelligence, enough AI to be able to drive itself, but it does.
So we do want to expose that to more people and so we're doing -- every time we have a
significant improvement in the software, we'll roll out another sort of 30-day trial, so to
encourage people to try it again. And we are seeing a significant improvement in adoption. So
the take rate for FSD has improved substantially, especially after the 10-10 event. Yeah. So there's
no need to wait for Robotaxi or Cybercab for to experience full autonomy. We expect to achieve
that next year with our existing vehicle end.
`Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Actually the Smart Summon gives a small taste of what it's going to look like with the car able to
drive itself to the user within private parking lots. Currently it's speed limited but then it's going to
quickly be increased. We already have more than a million usage in terms of Smart Summon.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah and we actually -- we have -- for Tesla employees in the Bay Area, we already are offering a
ride hailing capability. So you can actually -- with the development app, you can request a ride and
it will take you anywhere in the Bay Area. We do have a safety driver for now, but the software
required to do that we've developed.I mean, David, do you want to elaborate on that?
Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, sure. It's David. We shared some screenshots of this in the Q1 shareholder deck. And this is
real. We've been testing it for the latter part of the year and the building blocks that we needed
in order to build this functionality and deliver it to production. We've been thinking about it and
working on for years. It just so happens that we've used those building blocks to deliver great
features for our customers in the meantime, such as sharing your profile, synchronizing it across
cars so that every single car that you jump into, whether it's another car that you own or a car that
somebody has loan to you or a rental car that you jump into, it looks exactly like yours. Everything
synchronized, seat mirror positions, media, navigation, everything is the same, just what you
would expect from one of our Robotaxis. But we gave that functionality to our customers right
now because we built it intending for it to be used in the future. So we're releasing that
functionality now. All the end-to-end cybersecurity that we knew we're going to need to deliver
that functionality, sending a navigation destination from your phone to the vehicle.
And so, you're doing that now with the ride hailing app, but it's something that we've made
available to customers for years. Seen the progress on a route in the mobile app. That's
something you'll need for the ride hailing app. But again, we released it in the meantime. So it's
not like we're just starting to think about this stuff right now while we're building out the early
stages of our ride hailing network. We've been thinking about this for quite a long time and we're
excited to get the functionality out there.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And we do expect to roll out the ride hailing in California and Texas next year to the public.
But not the California has somewhat quite a long regulatory approval process. It shouldn't -- I
think we should get approval next year, but it's continued upon regulatory approval. Texas is a lot
faster so it's kind of -- I'd say, we'll definitely have it available in Texas and probably have it
available in California subject to regulatory approval. And maybe some other states actually next
year as well but at least in California and Texas. So I think that would be very exciting. There's
really a profound change. Tesla becomes more than a sort of vehicle and battery manufacturing
company at that point.
So we published the Q3 vehicle safety report which shows one crash for every 7 million miles of
Autopilot. That compares to the U.S. average of water crash roughly every 700,000 miles. So it's
currently showing a 10 times safety improvement relative to the U.S. average. And we continue to
expand our AI training capacity to accommodate the needs of both FSD and Optimus. We are
currently not a training compute-constrained.
So that's the point big limiting factors that the FSD is actually getting so good that it takes us a
while to actually find mistakes, and when you start getting to where it can take 10,000 miles to
find a mistake, it takes a while to actually figure out which it is. Is this software built better -- is
software built A better than software built B? It actually takes a while to figure it out because
neither one of them making mistakes or take a long time to make mistakes. So that's actually the
single limiting -- big limiting factor is how long does it take us to figure out which version is better?
Sort of high-class problem. Obviously having a drag fleet is very helpful for breaking this out.
And then with Optimus, we showed a massive improvement in Optimus' dexterity movement on
October 10 and our next-gen handed form which is 22 degrees freedom, which doubles the prior
handed form. It's extremely human-like and also has much better tactile sensing. It's really I feelmoreover the only company that really has all of the ingredients necessary to scale humanoid
robots. Because the things that what other companies are missing is that they're missing the AI
brain that they're missing the ability to really scale to very-high volume production. So you sort of
see some impressive video demos, but they're likely the localized AI and the ability to scale
volume to very high numbers. As I've said on a few occasions before, I think Optimus will
ultimately be the most valuable part and I think it has a good chance of being the most valuable
product ever made.
For the energy business, that's doing extremely well. And the opportunity ahead is gigantic. The
Megapack factory reached 200 Megapacks a week, which is now a 40-gigawatt hour a year run-
rate. And we have a second factory in Shanghai that will begin with a 20-gigawatt hour year run-
rate in Q1 next year, next quarter. And that will also scale up. It won't be long before we're
shipping 100-gigawatt hours a year stationary storage at Tesla. And we'll -- that will ultimately
grow I think to multiple terawatt hours per year. It has to actually in order to have a sustainable
energy future if you're at the terawatt scale here you're not really moving the needle.
So if you look at our mentally very complicated last master plan, which I think actually has too
much detail. I'll maybe I'll ask Gran [ph] to analyze it.
Unidentified Speaker
And shorten it up.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Give us the TLDR on the last management plan. But we showed in that master plan that it is
possible to take all of us to a fully sustainable energy situation using sustainable energy power
generation and batteries and electric transport. And there are no fundamental material limitations
like there's not some very rare material that we don't have enough of on earth. We actually have
enough of the raw materials to take all of human civilization, make it fully sustainable, and even if
civilization dramatically increased its electricity usage, it would still be fully sustainable.
One way to think of the progress of a civilization, which may sound a little esoteric, but is
percentage completion of cautious of scale. So cautious scale one would be you're using all the
power of a planet. We were -- we're currently less than 1% on cloud shift level, level one. Level
two would be using all the power of the Sun and level three all of the power of the galaxy. So we
have a long way to go. Long way to go. When you think of quartership terms, it becomes obvious
that by far the biggest source of energy is the sun. Everything else is in the noise.
So in conclusion, Tesla is focused on building the future of energy, transport, robotics and AI and
this is a time when others are just focused on managing around near-term trends. We think what
we're doing is the right approach and if we execute on our objectives, I think we will. Tesla -- my
prediction is Tesla will become the most valuable company in the world and probably by long
shot.
I want to thank the Tesla team once again for strong execution in a tough operating environment,
and we're looking forward to building an incredibly exciting future. Thank you.
`Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you very much, Elon. And Vaibhav has some opening remarks as well.
`Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. Thanks. Our Q3 results were all positive. And once again demonstrate the scale to which
business has evolved over the years with the generation of record operating cash flows of $6.3
billion. Our automotive revenues grew both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year. While we had
unit volume growth, we did experience reduction in ASPs, primarily due to the impact of financing
incentives. As a reminder, we are providing these incentives primarily using third-party banks and
financial institutions and recognize the cost of these incentives as an upfront reduction to
revenue.
We released FSD for Cybertruck and other features like actually Smart Summon like Elon talked
about in North America, which contributed $326 million of revenues in the quarter. We continue to
see elevated levels of regulatory credit sales with over $2 billion of revenues so far this year. To
expand on this, at an industry level, China continues to outperform U.S. and Europe by a factor of
three. And if there is something to be learned from that, this gives a signal of what is to come in
other regions as customers acceptance of EV goes and we feel that is the right strategy to build
affordabl and more compelling needs. Our focus remains on growing unit volume while avoiding
a buildup of inventory.
To support this strategy, we are continuing to offer extremely compelling vehicle financing
options in every market. When you compare any vehicle in our lineup with other OEMs, we
believe our vehicles provide much better value, particularly when you consider the safety
features, performance and unparalleled software functionalities like David also talked about,
include also what Ashok had talked about autonomy, music options, parental controls and much
more.
While every vehicle in our lineup comes up with these capabilities, there is an awareness gap not
just with buyers, but at times even with existing owners. We plan on making these more visible in
our interactions with both existing and future customers. Automotive margins improved quarter-
over-quarter as a result of 50 features release discussed before. Increase in our overall
production and delivery volume, continued benefit from marketing pricing and more localized
deliveries in region, which resulted in lower freight annuities.
Sustaining these margins in Q4, however, will be challenging given the current economic
environment. So that we are focused on the cost per vehicle and there are numerous work
streams within the company to squeeze our cost without compromising customer experience.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Something that's a helpful -- hopefully a helpful macro trend is if there's a decline in interest
rates, this has a massive effect on the -- on automotive demand because the vast majority of
people is -- the demand is driven by the monthly payment connect with multiple payment. So I
think most likely we'll see continued decline in interest rates, which helps with affordability of
vehicles.
`Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean that is one trend which we observed in the industry that because of the affordability
being impacted because of interest rates, people are holding on to the cars longer, especially in
the U.S.. And that is actually having an impact on the overall industry too. As we've discussed
earlier -- as we've discussed in prior quarters, energy deployments fluctuate quarter-over-quarter
due to customer readiness, location of orders being fulfilled and not necessarily an indicator of
demand or production within the quarter.While we did see a decline in Q3, we expect to grow deployment sequentially in Q4 to end the
year more than double of last year. Energy margins in Q3 bore a record at more than 30%. This is
a function of mix of projects being deployed in the quarter. Note that there will be fluctuation in
margins as we manage through deployments and our inventory. Our pipeline and backlog
continued to grow quarter-over-quarter as we fill our 2025 production slots and we are doing our
level best to keep up with the demand.
Just coming back on automotive margins, I talked about -- sorry, I talked about what is happening.
One other thing which I want to also share is that question, that, you know, we will continue to
keep whatever we can to squeeze, like I said before, about squeezing out the cost. But this is
something which we also are very capable of. I mean, just in Q3, we reached our lowest cost per
vehicle and that is a trend which we want to keep focus on.
Then going on to service and other, we continue to show improvements in Q3. This was a result
of better performance both in our service business, which includes collision part sales and
merchandise and continued growth in supercharging. These fleet-based revenues will continue to
grow as the overall fleet size increases.
Our operating expenses declined quarter-over-quarter and a year-on-year basis. This is partially
due to the restructuring we undertook in Q2. Cost savings from these initiatives were partially
offset by increase in costs related to our AI efforts. We've started using the GPU cluster-based
out of our factory in Austin ahead of schedule and are on track to get 50k GPUs deployed in
Texas by the end of this month. One thing which I'd like to elaborate is that we're being very
judicious on our AI compute spend too and saying how best we can utilize the existing
infrastructure before making further investments.
On the CapEx front, we had over $3.5 billion in the quarter. This was a sequential increase largely
because of investments in AI Compute. We now expect our CapEx for the year to be in excess of
$11 billion.
We shared our vision for the future at the V-Robot event at the beginning of the month. The
Tesla team is hyperfocused on delivering on that vision. Now all efforts are underway to make it a
reality. While we've achieved significant progress this year, it will take time to get this as we
pioneer new and incredibly complex technologies and navigate a fragmented regulatory
landscape.
Future is incredibly bright and I want to thank the Tesla team once again for all the help.
Questions And Answers
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you very much, Vaibhav. Now, we'll go to investor questions. The first one is, is Tesla
still on track to deliver the more affordable model next year as mentioned by Elon earlier and
how does it align with your AI product right now?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure. I mean, as Elon and Vaibhav both said, we are in-plan to meet that in the first half of next
year. Our mission has always been to lower the cost of the -- of our vehicles to increase the
adoption of sustainable energy and transport. Part of that is lowering the cost of our current
vehicles, which is where all of the personally owned vehicles that we sell today come in, but the
next stage in that really is it fits into AI roadmap is when we bring in Robotaxis, which lowers theinitial cost of getting into an EV and those -- that's really where we see the marriage of EV
roadmap and the AI roadmap.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Like with incentives sub-30k car, which is kind of a key threshold.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you very much. Similar question next, when can we expect Tesla to give us the
$25,000 non-Robotaxi regular car model?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Well, we're not making it on.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, all our vehicles today are really (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we've made very clear that we're -- the future is autonomous. I mean it's going to be -- and
I actually said this many years ago but that my strong belief and I believe that is panning out to be
true, and I'll be very obvious in retrospect is that the future is autonomous electric vehicles and
non-autonomous gasoline vehicles, which will be like riding a horse and using a foot boat. It's not
that there are no horses. Yeah, there are some horses, but they're unusual. They're niche and so
everything's going to be electric autonomous.
I think this is frankly blindingly obvious at this point that that is the future. So, a lot of automotive
companies, most automotive companies have not internalized this, which is surprising because
we've been shouting this from the rooftops for such a long time and it will accrue to their
detriments in the future. But all of our vehicles in the future will be -- all the vehicles that we've
really made, all the 7 million vehicles, the vast majority are capable of autonomy and we're
currently making on the order of 35,000 autonomous vehicles a week. Compare that to say
where most the entire fleet, it's less than -- less than 1,000 cars. We make 35k a week.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and our cars look normal.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, they mostly look normal. The Cybertruck looks, yes. Thankfully, you know, looks abnormal.
And then the Cybercab, actually Robotaxi. We wanted to have something futuristic looking. I think
it does look futuristic. And it's worth noting with respect to the Cybercab. It's not especially not
just a revolutionary vehicle design, but a revolution in vehicle manufacturing that is also coming
with the Cybercab. The cycle time like the units per hour of the Cybercab line it is like this is just
really something special I mean this is going to be half ordered magnitude better than other car
manufacturing lines not like not even the same league is what I'm saying. Not in the same league.
So it's, you know -- and I said like several years ago that the -- maybe the most hardest Tesla that
part to copy [ph] will be the factory. Not just like buy a factory.
A - Unidentified SpeakerYeah. We can't reverse near factory. It's something we'll have to be...
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
It's like -- so we're rapidly evolving our manufacturing technology. So anyway, that's basically I
think having a regular 25K models pointless. It would be silly like it would be completely at us with
what we believe.
A - Unidentified Speaker
In autonomous world, what matters is the lowest cost per mile of yet of efficiency of that vehicle
and that's what we've done with the Robotaxi.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Exactly. Autonomous. It's fully considered cost per mile is what matters. And if you try to
make a car that is essentially a hybrid manual automatic cars, it's not going to be as good as a
dedicated autonomous car. So, yeah -- Cybercab is just not going to have steering wheels and it's
fully design optimized for autonomy. It'll cost an order of, of course, cost roughly 25k. So it is a
25k car. And you can, you will be able to buy one on it exclusively if you want. So it just one
steering wheel in-house [ph] if you need it.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you very much. And the next question is, what is Tesla doing to alleviate long wait
times at service centers?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
So we aim on solving problems at the source, so at the factory before they can even affect our
customers and we believe the best service is now [ph] service and it have (inaudible) really is.
Don't even have them.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
If the car doesn't break.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yeah, exactly.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
That's the best thing.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Don't see anyone with the Tesla shirt, either do it fix the issue upstream or remotely do it through
software, maybe at-work or at-home the car to be parked and we address fixed issue and we've
partnered the field with service to make sure we're looking at the same issues. And additionally,
just in Q3 and Q4 of this year alone, we have opened and will open in total at nearly 70 locations.
And in North America, we significantly expand the size of each location and have doubled the size
last year compared to this year.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. I think it was like actually a lot of area to have any large service centers because you can
have specialization of labor. We start to approach kind of more factory like. You know, where you
can have dedicated lanes for particular types of service. And it's way easier for somebody to
become expert in a few different types of repairs than in every repair.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Exactly. This has helped us with the base that these heavy repairs like clogging up the lane.
They've dedicated lanes for different types of repairs. And so it's throughput matters and really
treating it like a factory.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, this is where at Tesla structure, I think Tesla has a strong advantage relative to the rest of
the order industry because we make cars and we service the cars, whereas I think there's a bit of
a conflict of interest with the dealer model and the sort of traditional OEM, the dealer model
where the dealerships make most of their money on service. And so, they don't have this
incented to reduce the servicing cost, whereas in our case, we are incented to reduce the
servicing cost because we carry that servicing cost and we've got a good feedback with our cars.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yeah. I think we will be with the factory, with the service leaders together and send back to
people from the factories that field and field to factory to see it firsthand. By suggestions for
manufacturing as well as for engineering on design.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. So I view this as a structural -- a fundamental structural advantage of Tesla versus the rest
of the auto industry. It doesn't do a bunch of work on the software side not only to automate
diagnostics, sorry, that define what needs to be done to a car where it comes into service, but
also automating all of the preparation work and aligning all the resources that are necessary in
order for the car to be very efficiently worked once it arrives. So the parts are there, like the lift is
scheduled, the technician schedule, like everything is in par (Multiple Speakers).
Yeah. Please fix me and this is what's wrong with me and Tesla will tell the service center.
(Mutliple Speakers) The car and everything is ready in advance. Yeah. Please fix me and this is
what's wrong. (Multiple Speaker)
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Instead of customer trying to translate, the car is telling us directly and we're pulling that.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Most of the time you don't need to diagnose the car exactly when it arrives, the car, yeah.
This is like again fundamental technology advantage and structural advantage compared to the
rest of the auto industry. So it's...
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
I think it's under appreciated as to what all we are able to do. And that's why -- because like I said
before, most of our cars, except for Cybertruck, look the same, right? So people don't realize
that it has so much capability.A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. But looks better than other commercial. But they're ike obviously like super futuristic. So
yeah.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you very much. And the next question is, please provide an update on the Semi,
what will the next stage of growth look like and when will FSD be ready?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure. So as you -- we posted in the earnings that we're progressing softly on the build of the
semi factory and our data factory in Reno. We've released all our major capital expenditures for
that program and we're on track to start pilot builds in the second half of next year with
production starting in the first half of 2026 and ramping really throughout the year to full
production. Semi growth will largely depend on our customers' adoption of the product.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I don't think we're going to be demand limited.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, which say, which is like a trainer for the Semi because it's really a commodity of total cost of
ownership.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, exactly. It's good. We have a kind of ridiculous demand for the Semi.
A - Unidentified Speaker
In that world where it's about how much do I spend (Multiple Speakers) per mile, it's a no-brainer.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, fundamentally, if you've got a semi where the fully considered cost per mile or per ton of
transport is better than say diesel truck. Any company that doesn't adopt you have an electric
Semi will lose. It's not a -- it's not a subjective thing. It's like whether do you like the (Multiple
Speakers) competitive. I mean like we want the start -- we want to have a beautiful Semi-truck,
but frankly, if we made an octi [ph] Semi truck wouldn't matter.
A - Unidentified Speaker
And this is proving so in our fleets and Pepsi's a partner. In fact, the Pepsi actually said last week
their -- nobody want -- their drivers don't want to go back.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, as soon as we give anyone the electric Semi, it's like the -- that's like the choice.
A - Unidentified Speaker
It's what they want to drive.A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. That's like -- so like the most senior like their top drivers will -- they get to drive test the
Semi. It's the thing they want to drive. It's super fun to drive.
A - Unidentified Speaker
It's also very easy to drive.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
It's easy to drive and it holds ass. It's like fast. Well, but I mean like you've seen like the videos
that were like electric semi like you know can go uphill speed --speeding past like the diesel truck.
Yeah, in cars. So like it's responsive. It's -- you floor it and that truck actually moved.
A - Unidentified Speaker
And that's a benefit not only for the driver and for the goods, but also for safety in terms of other
drivers on the road, you don't get stuck behind the semi, you're not like yet in a slowdown
situation and all in. I mean how that plays into FSD which is the second part of the question. All of
the semis have been since the couple of hundred we've deployed already and the ones that
we'll be building next year and throughout the future, have all of the hardware and the cameras
necessary to deploy FSD and we're currently training with that small that we have and as soon as
the fleet is trained and the neural nets are out, we'll get FSD onto that platform.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I mean it will be a massive improvement in driver fatigue because -- and driver safety,
we've got sort of the anti-jack like thing software with -- you don't have to worry about your
brakes overheating if you go down a steep hill because we use regenerative like that energy
goes back into the pack.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Actually, when we leave Reno...
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
It's just like -- it's like radically better than a diesel semi. So why the drivers love it.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great guys. Thank you very much. Our next question is, when will Tesla incorporate X and Grock
[ph] in all the Tesla vehicles?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean these are relatively small fry things. But yeah, I think we'll keep expanding what is available
in the car on the smart screen and also improving like the browser. So like just generally you can
access anything you want in the car. In fact, for the Tesla which gets full autonomy, you actually
want fully a system that is it can do anything, like if you want to browse the Internet, if you want to
ask AI questions, if you want to watch a movie, if you want to play a video game, if you want to do
some productivity thing, you can do anything you want in an autonomous vehicle because youdon't need to drive so that's why the Cybercab got a nice big screen and a great sound system
so you can watch a great movie with. It's like being like in a...
A - Unidentified Speaker
Close to a movie theater.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, close to a movie theater.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. This is why we've been building this functionality, adding gaming to the car, adding these
and other all sorts of different media applications to the car because, that's what you're going to
-- that's yeah, the cars that we build today.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
There's really fun and games by the way, though we really haven't tried it. There's like Castle
Doombad and Polytopia and a bunch of really fun games in the car.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yeah. We're constantly looking at what features to add next and we're paying attention to what's
most commonly reflected by our customers.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Play Castle Doombad. You won't regret it?
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you guys very much. The next question is, Elon mentioned unsupervised FSD in
California and Texas next year. Does that mean regulators have agreed to it in the entire state for
existing hardware three and four vehicles?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
No, as I said earlier, California loves regulation.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
But they have a pathway.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I mean, there's a pathway, obviously Waymore operates in California. So there's just a lot of
form spot and a lot of approvals that are required. I mean, I'd be shocked if we don't get
approval for next year, but it's just not something we totally control. But I think we will get
approval next year in California and Texas. And towards the end of the year, it will branch out
beyond California and Texas.
A - Unidentified SpeakerI mean, I think it's important to regard this like more like gating or certifying a vehicle at the
federal level in the U.S. is done by meeting FMVSS regulations. All our vehicles today that are
produced that are totally is capable to meet all those regulations, the side of (inaudible)
regulations. And so the deployment of the vehicle to the road is not a limitation. but is a limitation
is what you said at state-level where they control autonomous vehicle deployment. Some states
are relatively easy, as you mentioned, for Texas and other ones have halfways like California that
may take a little longer. Other ones haven't set up anything yet. And so we will work-through
those state-by-state.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I do think we should have a federal -- I agree that autonomous vehicles should be approved. This
should be -- it should be possible to...
A - Unidentified Speaker
Congress, if you're listening, let's get the federal AV.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
There should be a federal approval process for autonomous vehicles. I mean that's how the
FMVSS...
A - Unidentified Speaker
Is starting to work.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Federal motor vehicle with FMVSS is federal.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. So I mean in 2017 and '18 that we -- it's when regulators started looking at it, it's really kind
of stalled since then, but we would appreciate and would support helping out with those
regulators.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
It really needs to be like a national approval is important. If there's a department of government
efficiency that'll try to help make that happen. And it took said for everyone, not just Tesla. But
you know, just like some things in the U.S. are state-by-state regulated like for example, insurance
and it's like a, it's incredibly painful to do it state-by-state, 50 states. And I think we should have
this should be a national approval process for autonomy.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, guys. The next question is what is the plan for 2025?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean we're just talking.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `I mean, basically we talked about there's a lot going on. Elon already mentioned that we're
working on cheaper models to come out. I mean there are work which the team is doing to get
the factories ready today to try and make that happen.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
And by the way, the amount of work requires to make a lower-cost car is insanely high but like it is
harder to get like 20% of the cost out of a car than it is to design the car and build the entire
factory in the first place. It's like excruciating and there's not a lot of movies made about that the
heroes who got 20% of the cost out of a car. But let me tell you there should be. In everything
you got, that is incredibly heroic.
A - Unidentified Speaker
It's the little changes. It's not like...
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, but it's like there should be the heroes who got 20% cost out of a car is like damn, I have
more respect to them. It's like -- and I think you probably could make a compelling movie, but it
just know like if you actually saw how hard -- if people actually saw how hard it was to do that,
you'd be like, whoa, that's damn hard.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Just yesterday, we were talking about parting [ph].
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
But honestly like literally, there's a lot of -- but I do call it sort of like getting cost out things kind of
like it's like game of pennies. It's like Game of Thrones but pennies. First approximation if you've
got 10,000 items in a car, very rough approximation and each of them costs $4, then you have a
$40,000 car. So if you want to make a, a $35,000 car, you're going to get $0.50 on average out-
of-the 10,000 items.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Every part.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And it's like -- and then obviously, the best is you delete some parts. In fact, we found a lot
of parts. I'm sorry, I'm mean, I'm very excited about the Cybercab design and the -- we're
rethinking the design of a car for the Cybercab. We're designing it for ultra-high volume
production and then designing machine that builds the machine that I think is also revolutionary.
And it's just that there's no other car company that's even trying to do what we're doing. Like I
even heard of it actually. In fact, I'm certain there is someone like I think this on your machine that
builds machine like it's inherently like it would be designed to be at 5 times better than traditional
factory like cycle time...
A - Unidentified Speaker
Cycle time and like hard to reach and ensure it movement [ph]. I don't think any other car
company has the same level of like integration of thought that we have when it comes to likewhen you design a part from the light sheet of paper, who is going to make it, where is it going
to be made, how is it going to be shipped, how is it going to be assembled into the vehicle? And
like at any one point if something is done in a silo, it becomes a bottleneck of either cost or time
or efficiency. But with the Robotaxi, the development like we've done a good job on the
combining all that and then like blowing up how it's made and saying it should be made this way
and rethinking it all so that's the most efficient factory possible that shows in our -- it will show in
our CapEx efficiency when we deploy it, shows in the number of parts, it shows in simplicity of
vehicle, but also how it performs in terms of like end-user state.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Just to close up, just on the energy front and also to other priors [ph], we will have started
manufacturing the mega factory Shanghai. We will continue to increase our storage deployments
with Powerwall 3. We plan to continue expanding our supercharging network, getting more OEMs
on our network, 4680 in that cell ramp as Elon talked about, that would keep going. And then
there's also we'll have our lithium refinery starting to produce. So there's a lot which is going on.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Yeah, so many things. Yeah. I mean, like crazy thing is like Tesla is winning basically on
almost every single thing we're doing. If we're not winning now, we're on track to win. In arenas
where there are entire large companies, that's the only thing they do.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean it's a company -- multiple companies within the company.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Tesla is like many companies in one.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Classic. Thank you guys. Just a few more. And what is going on with the Tesla Roadster?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Some things. Well, I just like to thank our long-suffering deposit holders of the Tesla Roadster. The
reason it hasn't come out yet is because the Roadster is not just the icing on the cake, it's the
cherry on the icing on the cake. And so our large mission is to accelerate the progress towards a
sustainable energy future, try to do things that maximize the probability of the future is good for
humanity and for Earth.
And so that necessarily means that like the things like that are kind of like deserved. We'd like --
we don't love to work on the Tesla like the Tesla Roadster is super. It is super fun and we are
working on it, but it has to come behind the more things that have a more serious impact on the
good of the world. So just thank you to all our suffering Tesla Roadster deposit holders. And we
are actually finally making progress on that. And we're close to finalizing the design on that. It's
really going to be something spectacular. Peter Thiel, sometimes like people think Peter Thiel andI are rivals. We're really good friends. To be fair. Peter was lamenting how the future doesn't have
flying cars. Well, we'll see.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
More to come.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Yeah. Thank you very much. The next one is quite similar to other questions we've had. So
I'd like combine it with the final question. So briefly, could you just detail how Robotaxi will roll out?
Will it start with the Tesla deployed fleet and then allow customers to add theirs on the
subscription model and then will Hardware 3D capable with Robotaxi soon?
A - Unidentified Speaker
As regarding the Hardware 3, what we saw with Hardware 3 was it was easier to make rapid
progress with -- starting with Hardware 4 and creating on the solution and then backboarding it to
Hardware 3 instead of directly working on Hardware 3, given that Hardware 4 has more like
fundamental hardware capabilities. I think that trend will continue into the next few quarters as
well where we first figure the solution rapidly with AI four and then backboard right the kernels
and it just takes longer to let up those things because it's not fundamentally supported in the
hardware and it's emulated. But yeah, it's initially working on Hardware 4 backboarding it to
Hardware 3.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Actually, we're not 100% sure but as a short mention because by some measures, Hardware 4
has really several times the capability of Hardware 3, it's easier to get things to work with
Hardware 4, and then it takes a lot of effort to sort of squeeze that functionality into Hardware 3.
And there is some chance that Hardware 3 does not achieve the safety level that allows for
unsupervised FSD. There is some chance of that. And if that turns out to be the case, we will
upgrade those who have bought Hardware 3 FSD for free and we have designed the system to
be upgradable. It's really what sort of switch out the computer type of thing. Like the cameras
okay, they're capable, but anyway, we don't we don't actually know the answer to that, but if it
does turn out, we will make sure we take care of those who have bought FSD on Hardware 3.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. And in the last few minutes that we have left, we will try to get in some analyst questions.
The first question will be coming from `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street at New Street. And Pierre, please feel free
to unmute yourself.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street `
Thanks a lot guys for taking my question. I was wondering about like the compute you're -- you're
ramping-up. So you gave like interesting statistics on how much you have and you said you don't
feel you're compute constrained. And I was wondering how you are putting to work this additional
compute. Is that a game for you of creating like larger and larger models like next-generation of
models that are larger the way OpenAI go from GPT3 to GPT4 or is that more like you're set onyour model and you need to throw more-and-more compute to accelerate the pace of learning
to improve reliability?
And then I had a quick follow-up real quick on your roll-out in Texas and in California next year, the
plan as you see today, is it to roll out like a fleet or two with cars that will start with like a
supervisory or like some onboard supervision, someone sitting at the wheel just in case and
removing the supervisors progressively or are you aiming for going fully fledged without even a
human supervisor when you get started?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Well, I guess regarding, I'll answer. Yeah, the first part of the question the nature of real-
world AI is different from, say, an LLM in that you have a massive amount of context so that like
the -- you've got cases Tesla seven or eight cameras that nine up to nine if you include the
internal camera that so you take it by some context and that is then distilled down into a small
number of control outputs. Whereas it's like you don't really, it's very rare to have, in fact, fact I'm
not sure any LLM out there do gigabytes of context and then you've got to then process that in
the car with a very small amount of compute power. So it's all doable and it's happening, but it is
a different problem than what say a GenAI or OpenAI is doing and part of the way you can make
up for the fact that the inference computer is quite small is by spending a lot of effort on training.
And just like a human-like the more you train on something, the less -- the less mental workload it
takes when you do it. Like when the first time like a human starts driving, it absorbs your whole
mind. But then as you train more-and-more on driving get very good, then you the driving
becomes a background task. It doesn't it only absorbs a small amount of your mental capacity
because you have a lot of training. So we can make up for the fact that the inference computer is
it's tiny compared to a 10-kilowatt bank of GPUs because you've got a few 100 watts of inference
compute.
We can make up that with heavy training. And then there's also vast amounts that the actual
petabytes of data coming in are tremendous. And then sorting-out what training is important with
the vast amounts of video training or video data coming complete, what is actually most
important for training? That's quite difficult. But as I said, we're not currently training compute
constraint.
Ashok, if you want to elaborate on that.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Yeah. Like you mentioned, the training has both train larger models also to train quicker. But in the
end, we still got to pick which models are performing better. So the validation effort to picking the
models because the milestone intervention is pretty large. We have a lot of milestone going
closed-loop. We do have simulation and other ways to get those metrics. Those two will help, but
in the end that's a big bottleneck.
Yeah, that's why we are not training computer constraint alone. And there's other axis of scaling
as well, which is a data, figuring out which data is more useful and that is an important estimate of
focusing on that.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
So as it relates to the second part of your question, Pierre, about safety drivers and rolling it out,
each state has different requirements that in terms of how many miles and how much time youneed to have a safety driver and not have a safety driver. We're going to follow all those. We're
not going to violate whatever regulations are out there, but safety is a priority. But the goal is
obviously that when we're ready and safety is there, we'll go in all the direction from the right
chair currently.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I mean, I guess like we think that we'll be able to have drive all this Tesla's of doing paid
rides next year, sometime next year.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
All right. Thank you. And our next question comes from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Adam,
please feel free to unmute yourself.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thanks, everybody. Just had a question about the relationship between Tesla and xAI. Many
investors are still not clear how the work at xAI is truly beneficial to Tesla. Some even take the
view that the two companies may even be in competition with each other in terms of talent and
tech and even your time, Elon. So what's your message to investors on that relationship between
Tesla and xAI and where do you see it going over time? Thanks.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I should say that xAI has been helpful to Tesla AI in quite a few times in terms of things like
scaling up like training. And just even like recently in the last week or so, improvements in training
where if you're doing a big training one and a node fails, being able to continue training and easy
to recover from our training one in xAI has been pretty helpful. So -- but there are different
problems. You know, xAI working on artificial general intelligence or artificial super intelligence.
Tesla is trying to make autonomous cars and autonomous robots. They're different problems. So
yeah. I mean,
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
I think we've said this before also like not all AI is equal, right? I mean there's AI is a broad
spectrum. And we have our old swimlanes. Yes, there are certain things which we can collaborate
on if needed, but for the most part, we're still having different issues.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Tesla focus on real-world AI. And as I was saying earlier, it is quite a bit different from an
LLM because you have massive context in the form of video and some amount of audio that's
going to be distilled with extremely efficient inference computer.
I do think Tesla is the most efficient in the world in terms of inference compute. Because out of
necessity, we have to -- we have to be very good and efficient in forms. We can't put 10 kilowatts
of GPUs in a car. We've got a couple 100 watts and it's pretty well-designed Tesla AI chip but it's
still a couple 100 once. But there are different problems. I think the stuff that is like when it's
running inference, I mean it is running inference like answering questions, answering questions on
a 10-kilowatt rank. It's like, put that in a car. It's a different problem. No, exactly so xAI is because I
felt there wasn't -- there wasn't a truth seeking digital and super intelligence company out there.
Like that's what it came down to that they needed to be a truth seek it like an AI company that is
very rigorous about being truthful.And so I'm not saying xAI is perfect, but that is but that is at least the explosive aspiration even if
something is politically incorrected just will be truthful. I think this is very important for AI safety. So
anyway, I think AIx and I will have been helpful to Tesla and will continue to be helpful to Tesla but
there are very different problems.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
And also think like what is like what other car company has, it has a world-class trip design team?
Like zero. What other car company has a world-class AI team like Tesla does? Zero. Those were
all startups. They were created from scratch.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you, Elon. And I think that's unfortunately all the time that we have for today. We
appreciate all of your questions and we look forward to hearing you next quarter. Thank you very
much and goodbye.