Q1 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q1 2024 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) A
recording of the conference call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our website
shortly after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Ms. `Sloan Simpson, Global Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, madam.
`Sloan Simpson, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you so much, operator. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for
joining our First Quarter 2024 Earnings Call.
The information presented today contains forward-looking statements that involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
statements. For a description of some of these factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F
and its most recent quarterly results on Form 6K that respectively were filed with and furnished to
the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
And with that, I will hand across to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Sloan. I'd like to open today's call by first thanking Samir Shah for his incredible tenure
as our Head of Investor Relations for over a decade. We're grateful for all of his contributions and
we look forward to his continued contributions and a new role at Novartis. And I want to welcome
`Sloan Simpson, Global Head of Investor Relations. I think Sloan will do an absolutely outstanding job serving all of you as our Head of
Investor Relations. I've worked with her for many, many years, and I think we're really pleased and
grateful to have her onboard.
So let's turn to the quarter. Novartis delivered a really strong start to the year with double-digit
sales growth, core margin expansion, which enabled us to upgrade our guidance. And Harry will
go through the guidance in more detail. Sales were up 11% in constant currencies. Core operating
income was up 22%. Our core margin reached 38.4% as we steadily march to our goal of 40%-
plus by 2027.
In addition, we had a number of important innovation milestones in the quarter, which I'll go
through over the course of the call, but a few I'd want to particularly highlight. The Fabhalta
positive opinion enabled us to launch Fabhalta in Europe. Scemblix first-line readout, we think, will
be very important for a major medicine for the company. And we also had the updated PSMAfore
OS results, which will enable us now to move forward with the filing of Pluvicto in the United
States.
Now, moving to Slide 5. Now, our growth in the quarter was broad-based and we had strong
contributions from many of our key growth drivers, including Entresto, Kesimpta, Cosentyx which
had a very strong quarter, as well as Kisqali. I would also say, geographically, our performance was
broad-based, with strong growth across US, Europe, China with very strong growth, and Japan.
Now, as you can see on the chart, that strong growth was indicated by 41% constant currency
growth, and we expect this growth to continue over the course of the year, which is what -- is
what gives us confidence to do the upgraded guidance that we've outlined this morning.
Now, moving to Slide 6, and we'll walk through the brands one by one, as we always do. First,
with Entresto, we had double-digit growth, up 36% in quarter one. That was, again,
geographically broad-based, US and ex US. In the US, our weekly TRx continued to reach new
highs. We had 38% constant currency growth outside of the US and we continue to see
momentum for this brand. We're in a strong guideline position both in the US and in Europe. We
have further penetration opportunities in heart failure globally and specifically in hypertension in
China and Japan. And in Japan, we have protection into the early 2030s with this medicine. For
forecasting purposes, no change in our Entresto LoE outlook. We continue to guide to a mid-
2025 LoE, while continuing to aggressively defend our various patents. And then in terms of the
EU, we continue to guide to RDP in November 2026, benefiting from our pediatric extension.
Now, moving to Slide 7. Cosentyx grew 25% in the quarter and, I think, really got back to the
dynamic growth we expect for this medicine. This was fueled both by our core indications, but
also some strong launches, and I'll go through that in a bit more detail. US was up 25% in constant
currencies, ex-US 24%. We had highly -- we were highly competitive in our core indications and so,
we saw a return to market share improvement in psoriasis and in the rheumatology indications
both in the US and in Europe. And we're now the leading originator biologic in the IL-17 class in the
EU and China.
Now, in terms of our new launches, we saw very strong performance in HS, Hidradenitis
suppurativa, where we have over 50% now NBRx share versus adalimumab in US and Germany.
When we compare our launch on a comparable basis to the adalimumab launch in this indication,
we currently see ourselves at nearly 3 times the performance of that previous launch, I think really
highlighting how strong the uptake for Cosentyx has been in this new indication. We also had verystrong performance in the intravenous indication ahead of the J-code, which we expect in July. I
think, again, that indicates there is strong interest in having an IV option for patients with
Cosentyx in the rheumatology indications. So we'll look forward to further acceleration in the back
half of the year once we have that J-code in place.
Now, moving to Slide 8. Kesimpta delivered 66% growth on the quarter, and this was again global
US and ex-US driven. We have over 100,000 patients treated worldwide on the medicine and the
majority of these patients are either naive or first switch, which reflects the strategy we have for
this brand. In the US, we saw a very strong demand-driven growth, with NBRx volume at plus 26%
versus prior quarter. And one of our key priorities now in the US is to increase our B-cell market
share over the coming quarters.
Outside of the US, we have leadership now in seven out of 10 major markets and we look
forward to continuing to drive the convenience and high efficacy story that Kesimpta presents in
these markets. In the quarter as well, we announced the ALITHIOS six-year long-term data, which
demonstrated sustained efficacy and the consistent safety profile for Kesimpta. In this study, nine
out of 10 patients were free on the NEDA-3 disease activity. And we also saw treatment-naive
patients derive substantial benefits across multiple markers of disease activity. So, even in the
face of some competitor launches, we feel very confident about the one minute a month self-
administered dosing, high efficacy, strong safety profile of Kesimpta.
Now, moving to Slide 9. Kisqali grew 54% in metastatic breast cancer with now continued leading
share in new patient starts. US was up 72% and I think there's increasing recognition of the unique
profile that Kisqali offers, given its broad data set of OS across three different studies in
metastatic breast cancer. We have leading NBRx share at 45% and we see a steady growth in
writers. We're also working to increase depth, as well as improve our market access position
across key accounts ahead of the early breast cancer launch. Now, outside of the United States,
39% growth. We're the fastest growing CDK4/6 in Europe and a market leader in the pre-
menopausal indication.
We also successfully entered the NRDL list in China in quarter one, and it's early days in China, but
given the strength of our China operations, we're hopeful we can drive dynamic growth for
Kisqali in China over time. The regulatory review in early breast cancer is ongoing. We're filed in
the US and EU and currently expect regulatory review to proceed as planned. Our manufacturing
adjustments, which we disclosed a few weeks ago, are on track to assure alignment with the
latest regulatory standards in early breast cancer by the end of Q2 and we continue to expect to
be able to launch this medicine in the second half of this year.
Now, moving to Slide 10. Pluvicto had strong growth of 47% in the quarter, driven by new patient
starts and very early beginnings of growth as well outside of the US. At Q-end [ph], we have 400
treatment sites now up and running in the US on steady progress to our goal to get well over
500 sites fully certified for the use of Pluvicto. Also, our supply performance is now consistently at
a very high level with over 99.5% of injections administered on the planned day. So, ample supply,
Indianapolis facility up and running, continued expansion of our manufacturing network. So, we
really feel like we're now in a position to fully supply the market consistently globally and for this
medicine.
Now, over the course of 2024, we're going to focus on share expansion within existing sites and
particularly expanding the referral network of medical oncologists who can refer into a Pluvicto
treating center. We feel like this will be the key now in the post-taxane setting. We also want to
build our business outside of the United States with some important launches in Europe as we
also build towards launches -- planned launches in Japan and China, both countries where wehave planned new manufacturing facilities to support the Pluvicto and Lutathera business. Our
existing indications are also on track. We announced earlier this quarter that the PSMAfore
submission-enabling OS readout was achieved, and this will put us in a position to file Pluvicto
early in the second half. So, a mid-year filing for this medicine. And then PSMAddition also on
track, as well as the PSMA-delayed castration in localized oligometastatic program as well.
Now, a little more detail on the PSMAfore submission-enabling OS readout. We had a primary
endpoint that we read out last year where we met the primary endpoints, as well as really strong
data across all of the secondary and exploratory endpoints, a very impressive relative risk
reduction for rPFS, strong profile across the patient reported outcomes, as well as the various
response ORR, DCR and DOR.
And what we announced earlier in the quarter was the updated third interim, which gave us a
higher proportion of OS events. The OS hazard ratio was less than 1, which puts us in a position to
file mid-year, and other secondary endpoints were consistent with the previous results, as was
the rPFS. And what we feel and see is with the additional eight months of follow-up, we have high
confidence in the safety profile of Pluvicto. And so, this -- these results will be presented at an
upcoming medical congress and, of course, we're working as quickly as we can to get this file in.
Now, moving to Slide 12. Leqvio also had a really strong quarter. Adoption expanded steadily in
the US, but also outside of the United States. As you can see here on the left-hand chart, very
strong performance both in the US and outside the US. Taking the US first, we had growth
outpacing the advanced lipid-lowering market. We have now nearly 3,900 facilities that are
ordering Leqvio, increased breadth and depth across our key accounts. We continue to see buy
and bill as the key driver overall of the business, but we do see also the use of other channels as
well.
Outside of the US, we're -- we have a consistent rollout. Now, we have 29 countries where Leqvio
is publicly reimbursed and an additional 39 with private commercial coverage this. This puts us in
a strong position with our top three European markets contributing 50% of international sales,
but really strong growth across the international region. And strong uptake in China in the self-pay
setting, with over 200 new patients a day ahead of our planned NRDL listing in the first path --
first part of next year.
Lastly, we had new data at ACC and a publication as well, which supported the early initiation of
Leqvio, demonstrating that starting Leqvio early in patients requiring secondary prevention for a
cardiovascular event allowed these patients to achieve their LDL-C goals earlier.
Now moving to the next slide, Slide 14. Scemblix grew 83% in the quarter, again, primarily driven
by the third-line indication, with our first-line submission on track to be completed in the coming
months. We had continued momentum in the core third-line indication, over 40% NBRx share.
Outside of the US, we're at a 32% total market share, driven by our key markets, Japan, France,
and Germany. And here in the third-line setting, we primarily focus on early identification of
patients who could benefit from a switch to Scemblix post two TKIs. As a reminder, our
ASC4FIRST study enabled first in line submission -- first-line submission in half one. Primary
endpoints were met versus all standard of care TKIs and versus Gleevec as well, favorable safety
and tolerability profile. And we can confirm that the full data will be presented at ASCO in 2024.
Now, turning to Fabhalta, we're at the early stages of the PNH launch and we didn't expect really
to see significant sales at this very early stage, given the complexity of this launch. But we are
very pleased with the early launch indicators. We've had a rapid increase in the number of HCPs
who are certified under the REMS program, an increase in new writers and patient starts, whichare exceeding our internal expectation. We see uptake across naive and switch patients for this
medicine. And we also are really happy to see HCPs willing to work through the medical
exception process to get patients on this medicine.
So, we've also have the positive CHMP opinion for PNH and we expect that full approval to
happen in the coming few months. And we'll consistently work to launch this medicine across the
globe, as well as drive rapid uptake in the United States.
Now, turning to Slide 15. We also announced our phase 3 APPLAUSE-IgAN study full results earlier
in the quarter, where we demonstrated 38% proteinuria reduction relative to placebo. In this
study, we randomized patients to iptacopan versus placebo. The results we read out was a nine-
month interim proteinuria analysis. These patients will be continued to be followed out to month
24 for the full eGFR analysis. You can see on the right-hand panel, very impressive proteinuria
reduction of 43.8% versus placebo at 9%, clinically meaningful and statistically significant. We
know that complement activation is a key driver of inflammation in IgAN. And importantly, the
overall safety profile was consistent with data we've previously reported.
We've submitted this data to FDA. And just one clarification, we did not use a priority review
voucher for this medicine. The FDA had granted us priority review based on the data set that we
provided. So, this study continues as well for an eGFR readout in 2025 and we look forward to
really getting a full approval very shortly -- or getting the initial approval in the coming period.
Moving to Slide 16. Now, remibrutinib demonstrated -- had already demonstrated in an earlier
study at 12-weeks, robust efficacy and safety, but we needed to wait for the 52-week data to be
in a position to file in chronic spontaneous urticaria. And this data came out positive, enabling us
now to move forward towards this important filing. As a reminder, there's about 400,000 CSU
patients in the US not controlled or refractory to antihistamine and only less than 20% of these
patients are currently on a biologic. So, there's a large opportunity for a high efficacy oral
medicine.
The previous primary endpoint data at week 12 is shown here, where we very consistently
showed improvements versus placebo after week 12 on the UAS7 score. And so, we'll look
forward to presenting the full data set in the second quarter for this medicine out to 52 weeks.
And with the consistent favorable safety profile we've demonstrated, with overall rates of AE
comparable to placebo and balanced liver function test, as well as the clear efficacy data, we'll
look forward to global submissions in the second half of remibrutinib.
So, all taken together, we're on track across our innovation goals for the year. I did want to
highlight that we have shifted our iptacopan C3G US submission to the second half. There is no
great correlate for efficacy in C3G, given the high ultra-rare nature of this disease. We provided
the FDA our six-month data. While certainly we believe that six-month data was very compelling,
the FDA wanted to see the additional six-month follow-up for these patients after all patients had
rolled over onto active. The first six-month period was randomized. Second six-month period, all
patients are on active. So we will complete that six-month follow-up and then file in the second
half. And we remain very excited about the opportunity to bring Fabhalta as well to patients with
C3G.
So, moving to the next slide. We also are on track for our range of submissions '24, '25, and '26
to '28. So we'll continue to keep you abreast of how data sets unfold, as well as potential readout
timelines as we understand those readout timelines better, and really excited about the catalyst-
rich profile that we have out through the coming years.`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. I'm now going to
walk you through some of the financials for the first quarter. And as always, my comments refer
to growth rates in constant currencies, unless otherwise noted. Also, throughout the
presentation, I refer to continuing operations.
And as you see from the numbers, it has been a very strong start to the year. So, on Slide 20, you
see a summary of our financial performance, with net sales up 11% and core operating income up
22%. Our core margin grew 340 basis points to reach 38.4%, showing that we are very well on
track to achieve our mid-term margin guidance of 40%-plus by 2027. Core EPS was $1.80 for the
first quarter, growing 23%, a bit ahead of core [ph] operating due to the share buyback program.
Free cash flow was $2 billion, declining versus quarter one of 2023, but that was due to a prior
year one-timer and the timing of some tax payments this year. However, and importantly, for the
full year 2024, free cash flow is expected to grow approximately in line with core operating
income. So, in summary, very strong start to the year, as our efforts to focus and streamline the
business continue to pay off.
This brings us already to our full year guidance on Slide 21. So, the strong momentum in our
business across our in-market growth brands and launches, both in the US and international
markets, give us the confidence to upgrade both top and bottom line guidance. We have also a
favorable update on generic entry assumption in US, but that's actually a smaller element of the
analysis driving our 2024 guidance upgrade. We now expect net sales to grow in range of high-
single digit to low-double digit and core operating income to grow in the range of low-double
digit to mid-teens.
Underpinning our guidance are two key assumptions that no Entresto and no Promacta generics
will launch in 2024 in US. And to complete our '24 full year guidance, please know that we
continue to expect core net financial expenses to be in the range of $0.6 billion to $0.7 billion and
our core tax rate to be around 16.5%.
Now, moving to Slide 22. I'm very pleased with the quality of our quarter one sales growth, driven
by our key in-market brands, which grew, as Vas showed also on the prior slide, 41% in the
quarter. And the vast majority of these brands still have many years of patent protection ahead of
them. So, their continued momentum strongly supports our mid-term growth outlook of 5%
CAGR through 2028.
Slide 23, please. Just to highlight that we continue our shareholder-friendly capital allocation
strategy in quarter one, of course, investing in the business alongside returning capital to
shareholders. Notably, in Q1, we announced two value-creating bolt-ons in our core therapeutic
areas, the proposed acquisition of Morphosys and the licensing deal of Arvinas, both of which
align with our strategic focus in oncology. In terms of returning capital to our shareholders, we
paid $7.6 billion of our growing dividend in quarter one and we also continue our up to $15 billion
share buyback program. And we still have $11.7 billion remaining to be executed by the end of
2025.
Already to my final slide, 24, we have outlined some of the details regarding the FX impacts. And
as you see, in quarter one, FX had 1% negative impact on sales and 6 points negative on core
operating income, the latter driven by the strong Swiss francs. And if late-April rates prevail,
including the most recent strengthening of the US dollar, we expect the full year impact of
currency still to be less than it was in '23 -- on the topline, negative 2%; bottom line, a negative4%. As a reminder, as this is hard to forecast from the outside and moving all the time, we are
updating our -- the expected FX impact on our website on a monthly basis.
And with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Harry. So, as you heard, a strong start to the year with double-digit sales growth,
strong core margin expansion, and with the strong momentum we see in the business, we're
able to raise our guidance for the year. We saw this momentum across all of our key growth
brands and across geographies, I think, indicating the high quality of the performance that we're
seeing in the company.
Our pipeline continued to advance with multiple submissions and submission-enabling readouts,
as we outlined, and we continue to have confidence in our mid-term guidance of 5% constant
currency sales growth '23 to '28 and 40%-plus core operating income margin by 2027.
So, with that, I'll hand it back to Sloan who will outline some of our upcoming investor events.
`Sloan Simpson, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Vas. Before we open up for questions, I just wanted to flag a few investor events that
we're planning to hold this year. First, we'll have an in-person event at ASCO in Chicago on June
2nd, highlighting the Scemblix ASC4FIRST data, which Vas mentioned. We'll also have a virtual
event on our renal pipeline in the second half of the year, and we'll be having our Annual Meet
Novartis Management event in London on November 20 to November 21. We hope to see many
of you at these events.
And with that, operator, let's open the line for questions, please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions)
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And one thing, operator. Can we just ask each participant to limit themselves to one question and
then we'll go back through the queue.
Operator
Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) We will now go to your first question. And your first
question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you for taking my question. It's going to be on Pluvicto. And so, Vas, you set out some of
the metrics in terms of improving revenue. I think there's definitely an expectation amongst
investors that we might see an inflection as supply comes online and physicians get more
comfortable with your ability to supply and add nurses and chairs into their networks. I wanted to
understand whether you thought that was a realistic assumption or whether or not investors
should get more comfortable with a kind of continuous grind in the growth of Pluvicto over the
coming quarters.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Matthew. So, first on Pluvicto, we have resolved our supply issue, but we are still
working through, I think, the remnants of the base of patients that were a bit lower in quarter
four, given that we were still working through things then. Now, when you think about the growth
of Pluvicto medium to long term, first, we have this post-taxane indication, where you can see
we're already annualizing at a pretty healthy blockbuster, about [ph] $1 billion-plus sales range,
and we expect that to steadily grow and we guided to that indication to being a multi-billion
dollar, so a $2 billion-plus indication.
So we expect it to steadily grow over the coming quarters in that post-taxane setting. And this will
be primarily driven by, as I mentioned, expanding the base of medical oncologists who are able
to refer into the existing centers. We don't see the opportunity at this point in terms of expanding
the number of centers for this indication. So, that will steadily grow over the course of 2024 to
get us steadily marching up towards that multi-billion dollar guidance, $2 billion-plus guidance that
we've given in the VISION indication.
Then we expect the PSMAfore pre-taxane indication to be the next catalyst and we do expect an
inflection on that launch, which will then -- I should also mention in Pluvicto, outside of the US as
well, we will get additional momentum as we bring onboard Germany, France, other countries in
Europe. And then in the coming years, we do expect a substantial inflection from China and
Japan. We're building dedicated manufacturing facilities for those countries in order to drive
further growth, both in the pre-taxane and the post-taxane indication.
Next catalyst will be the pre-taxane approval, which we hope to have in the first half of next year.
Then the hormone-sensitive indication, then the oligometastatic. And then we also have two
programs advancing with actinium PSMA as well to also further bolster the overall portfolio. So, I
think a steady growth in the VISION indication within catalysts coming from ex-US expansion and
the indication expansions for the brand.
Thanks, Matthew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen from TD Cowen. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you so much. Vas, you noted in the prepared remarks that the Kisqali review was on track.
But how confident is Novartis that FDA will meet the priority review regulatory deadline for Kisqali
with a broad label? There seems to be a number of things that could give FDA pause, including
the nitrosamine issue, as well as liver tox. So, what is your level of confidence? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Steve, we're very confident on the broad label. I think on the timeline, we currently guide to
the current timeline that we have as we implement these manufacturing shifts. We, of course, are
discussing these manufacturing adjustments, and they're minor adjustments, but they do require
discussions with FDA. And so, once we have a better clarity on, if at all, if there was any shift in
timeline, we would, of course, let the markets know. But we think this will be still a second half
launch for this medicine, and we feel very good about that guidance.And so, while we talk here about minor shifts, we're not talking about anything significant. And
again, expect the broad label -- we don't have concerns about liver. This is something that's well
known with Kisqali. LFTs are currently monitored in the metastatic breast cancer setting. No
change in monitoring requirements is what we expect. So, overall, we feel good with the ability to
launch this medicine in the second half of the year.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. Another one on Kisqali, actually. Just -- could you just
explain to us what the process amendment needed for Kisqali is in early breast cancer? So, is that
something in the actual reaction? Is it purification? And do you know at the moment whether you
do or don't need an inspection by FDA? And if there is one, do you think that would still be
completed within the second quarter time frame and, therefore, not delay the NATALEE PDUFA
timeline? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Graham. So, first, on the manufacture adjustments that we talk about here, just as a
reminder, Kisqali already meets the requirements in metastatic breast cancer. So these are just
additional requirements, given that early breast cancer is an asymptomatic population. The
adjustments we talked about here are primarily how we source material from third parties. We
want to go to higher quality sourcing of third-party material, which is something we believe we
can implement in a very straightforward way, and then also just some additional adjustments
within our supply chain for the management of Kisqali prior to actually leaving our supply chain to
go to physicians. So, these are, we believe, relatively minor changes, nonetheless, changes we
do need to review with the regulators.
In terms of inspection, we don't believe there would be any inspection required for this. And so,
that's what I think overall gives us confidence in the guidance to launch the medicine in the
second half.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
OperatorQ - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I just want to ask a question on Cosentyx. I know you mentioned
you're expecting the J-code, but are you currently generating much sales from the IV
formulation? Just in that context, if you could frame the current pricing environment in the US,
specifically? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Emily. So, Cosentyx IV, I'd say, better-than-expected uptake than what we had
thought prior to the J-code. But when you look at Cosentyx's current outperformance in the
quarter, it was driven primarily by the strong Hidradenitis suppurativa launch, as well as that
leading to stronger performance as well in psoriasis globally.
So, the IV launch is still, I think, in the midst of kicking up. What I would say is, we are having a high
-- we have reached already the vast majority of accounts that we expect expected to order
Cosentyx IV. They're already at least in the process of ordering the medicine ahead of the J-
code, trying to use an exceptional code to use the medicine. So, in terms of account reach, we're
already in a very good position, and we think we'll be able to then drive strong depth once we
actually get the J-code in place.
So, we feel very good. So, this could be another, I think, good driver for Cosentyx growth in the
second half post that J-code being rolled out.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic, Redburn Atlantic. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic `
Thanks so much for taking my question. It's a broad question on the commercial performance.
Vas, you've highlighted a few specific reasons for strength in the quarter, like the Cosentyx HS
launch. But to what extent is the broad-based performance we've seen in this quarter a result of
the changes to the commercial organization that have been underway over the last couple of
years? I wonder to what extent that is responsible? If you could give any color on where it's
impacting and how much is left to come from that initiative? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Simon. We do believe that probably the biggest -- big picture driver for our strong
performance over the recent quarters has been the reorganization and focus of the -- focusing of
the company. And as a reminder for investors, a few things we did. We elevated the US and we
went to a geographic model, US, international. We focused down the portfolio to four key
therapeutic areas. We focused the commercial area on nine key drugs. We shifted our
investments, in most places, over 75% of the M&S investments go to the growth drivers. A heavy
focus on US, China, Japan, and Germany.
And taken together, that, I think, is compounding to show the broad-based performance you see
across US and international, and particularly in some markets like China, very, very strong
performance. So that is, I think, the biggest sustainable driver.In terms of specifics in the quarter, clearly, Cosentyx performed extremely well. Putting aside
consensus, if you look at the growth rates of Kisqali and Kesimpta, Leqvio, Scemblix, these were
all very, very strong; even Pluvicto, if we put aside on quarter-on-quarter growth, these were all
very strong growth rates. And I think that also, I think, gives us confidence to raise the guidance
for the full year.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic `
Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for taking the question. Since you flagged it will be forthcoming at ASCO, perhaps just a
question on the Scemblix ASC4FIRST data details. The primary endpoint was MMR. So we're
going to be very interested to see how that fares. It was obviously physician standard or
physicians' choice standard-of-care control arm versus the potential comparators, in particular to
Sigma and Gleevec. Can you talk a little bit about what we could expect to see in terms of some
of the standard-of-care competitors on that primary endpoint? And indeed, any secondaries
you're willing to provide thoughts on would be helpful as well. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, let me outline how the Scemblix study was designed and then, hopefully, give you some
perspective. So, this was a first-line study, and we -- this is, of course, our third medicine in the
world of chronic myelogenous leukemia. So, a long history in the company. The primary endpoint
was Scemblix versus investigator-choice TKI, with a goal that over 50 -- roughly 50% of patients
would be on imatinib or Gleevec. And the primary endpoint was Scemblix versus the overall pool
of the patients, intention to treat, regardless of TKIs. That's the first primary endpoint. And the co
primary endpoint was Scemblix versus Gleevec. And we hit both of those primary endpoints with
clinically meaningful, highly statistically significant improvements in MMR. Then we had a
descriptive secondary endpoint of Scemblix versus the two second-gen TKIs. And again, there,
we will disclose the full data at ASCO, but we feel very good about the profile of the medicine.
And then on safety, which I think is one of the key elements of Scemblix story already in the third-
line setting, we saw outstanding safety profiles. I think that's the other thing to look out for at the
ASCO presentation, is the overall safety profile of Scemblix. Because clearly, to move into that
frontline setting, physicians will want to see both strong efficacy and a clean safety profile.
Now, it's important to note that once we get to the point of filing the medicine shortly and then
ultimately launch the medicine, in the US, we believe there's a portion of the market where we
can drive very rapid uptake. These are patients who are currently on second-gen TKIs or in
physician practices that are very open to switching. We do know that there is an element of the
CML market that's contracted and that tends to use generic imatinib that will take us longer to
overall to move through.But I think one of the exciting things about Scemblix is that this has a long LoE, and based on
targeting a rare disease, it's not part of IRA negotiations. So we have here a medicine that can
drive Novartis' growth through this decade and well into next decade, both US and around the
globe. And we, of course, are one of the global leaders in CML. So I think that positions us well
overall.
So, thanks for the question, Emmanuel. Next question, operator?
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Can I return to Cosentyx? And you mentioned the launch in HS
being sort of 3 times Humira. How do you see the sizing of the indication of HS now? Is that a 2
billion to 3 billion indication for Cosentyx? And thus, do you see continued potential double-digit
growth over the next few years for the product? And I suppose, one just clarification, just to -- any
quantification on the HS -- size of the HS contribution at this stage? And I don't think there was
any pricing or stocking in the first quarter, but just to clarify that as well. Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Richard. So, just a context, we estimate as best we can from public information that
adalimumab had over $1 billion of sales in HS historically. We do think that the market is
significantly underserved. There's a large number of patients who are not on biologics in this
indication. So, it could be a substantial market. I don't think we've given yet guidance on
specifically the overall size of the market, but certainly there's a potential of a multi-billion dollar
market here.
So, we think Cosentyx has the opportunity to drive very significant growth for the brand as we try
to reach $7 billion. Probably not in a position yet to give specific indication-based guidance on
Cosentyx, but we think with the combination of HS, of IV, giant cell arteritis phase 2, which is
ongoing, the polymyalgia rheumatica indication that we also have, as well as the strong
performance we have in China, that just gives us even more conviction that we can get to that $7
billion peak sale by the end of the decade.
Next question, operator? Thanks, Richard.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. I have a couple of questions on Entresto and just timing of generic entry. So, in the US,
can you map out for us what we should be tracking from here in terms of events and news flows
that will help inform whether mid-'25 is a good assumption? And is it conceivable that sometimein '24 you'll have a different point of view? And then ex-US and the timing of generic entry, you
guide for later '26. Is there a similar level of uncertainty on that? And then if you could wrap in
China as part of that discussion on generic timing as well?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Tim. So, on Entresto, right now, we do have an appeal ongoing to the circuit court
on the combination patent, which we believe will be heard and ruled on in the second half of this
year. It's important to note that there have been no Entresto generics approved as of yet, and we
have two citizens' petitions pending at the FDA on the basis for approval and also the labeling for
any potential product with respect to Entresto. So, based on that fact that we don't expect any
generics to launch this year, though, we can never exclude, of course, somebody trying to do
something at risk.
And then separate from that, we have a number of other patents that are currently being
litigated towards the end of this year and then towards the -- it's all through the coming period,
which is what overall makes us have the best estimate in the US of mid-2025. And of course, as
we get better resolution on that, we can, of course, provide further color. I would also say that
Entresto is on the IRA negotiation list, so that we would expect in Jan 2026, to our best
understanding, at least in the Medicare population, that IRA pricing would hold and we would get
better read on how that looks in September.
Outside of the United States, we already include our pediatric exclusivity. So, we think our current
guide of end of 2026 is reasonable. Of course, we're always looking for ways to adequately
defend all of our patents, but we think that's a very reasonable assumption at this point in time.
In China, at the moment, we currently have, I think, a number of different approaches, but the key
there will be the number of generics and when they get approved. And so, I think we could
reasonably expect potential entry of Chinese generics sometime in the course of 2025. But the
question in China was when we will enter the VBP list. And that, of course, is something we're
monitoring. And once we have a better understanding of the number of generics and their status
legally, when we enter the VBP list, we'll be able to provide further clarity.
And lastly, in Japan, we currently outlook 2031, I believe -- 2031 or 2032. Our team will get back
to you exactly, but certainly into the 2030s for Japan at the current point in time.
So, hopefully, that's helpful, Tim. Thank you for the question. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas, BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just wondered if you could help us with cost phasing. I think
guidance is implying a lower margin improvement than the very strong margin improvement you
saw in Q1. And I know that was slightly mis-modeled last year going into Q4, extrapolating the
margin. So, can you just help us understand the phasing in terms of costs over this year? That
would be very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Richard. I'll hand that to Harry. Harry?A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Richard. So, overall, as you have seen, our quarter one costs were growing in
constant currency roughly 2%, which was driven by R&D, but up roughly 6%, whilst SG&A was
basically flat. That's a consequence also of the full implementation of transformation for growth,
restructuring programs, leaning out, going to one organization locally between pharma/onco and
leaning out above country and customer-facing functions, our organization structures and leaning
our processes.
So, you see some continued benefits from that. Of course, we will continue to leverage new
technologies, leaner processes to keep driving the multiple launches, but all within our four
therapeutic areas where we have significant commercial infrastructures and medical
infrastructures. So, I would expect that SG&A continues to be quite flattish, maybe here or there a
bit more investment, but certainly significantly below sales growth. And then the level of specialty
[ph] development spend depends also a bit on the M&A, in-licensing agenda. So, clearly, we have
some placeholder for that in the second half of the year as well.
And then we will update you after Q2, of course, how things are going when we have a clear
visibility. But overall, very good focus on cost consciousness, as Vas mentioned, excellent
resource allocation to our top nine brands and pre-launches. And with that, as I always outlook,
the key contribution to our margin growth is expected to come from SG&A, as we expect very
dynamic sales growth this year and on a five-year basis and very limited SG&A growth.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah, thanks very much for taking my question. It's on Scemblix. I wondered, Vas, if you could help
us understand the level of uptake you anticipate in the first-line setting. The slides show 40%
NBRx share in the third-line setting, and you talked about the sort of potential ease of identifying
specific patients who might most likely benefit from Scemblix versus the current standard TKIs.
And I also wondered on Scemblix, have you seen any early impact of the Part D redesign when it
comes to treatment initiations and volumes? Any sort of comment there for Scemblix and across
your business would be great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Mark. I think on Scemblix, we would expect, I would say, a modest early uptake,
because we would have to work through -- CML is one of the few cancer areas that's currently
contracted. And so, we would need to work through the access in the first couple of quarters
from launch. But then after that, we believe that given the overall data set that we'll share at
ASCO, that it should be able to drive very strong uptake.And of course, you all know well that the second-gen TKIs were on the order of $2 billion
medicines. Gleevec was a $4 billion-plus global medicine. And so, certainly, our goal is to make
this, over time, the leading CML treatment in the world. We wouldn't face any competition -- at
least branded competition. And given that, we will have demonstrated MMR superiority over the
pooled group of Gleevec and the second-gen TKIs, it should put us in a very good position over
time to make this into a significant medicine.
I think, on Part D redesign, it's really early days for us to have a strong sense of the impact. And
so, we're monitoring this very closely, also reading all of your reports on how you're monitoring it,
to really understand what is the impact of out-of-pocket caps and some of the other shifts that
are happening in the system on patients taking up their medicines. I think certainly as we move
down from a $3,500 cap to a $2,000 cap, I would expect, in general, to see more patients' ability
to fulfill their medicines to improve as cost -- as the cost becomes lower at the pharmacy counter.
But we need to see that, I think, in the data before we can really provide you more color.
Next question, operator?
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. It's on the planned proposed MorphoSys transaction. I wonder
if you can just outline when you did that, how much of the acquisition price that you're considering
was based on getting broad, both geographical and sent to [ph] the market approval for
pelabresib. And versus, on the other hand, how much of the transaction is ascribed to what
you're thinking with regards to the EZH2 and also the ianalumab royalties that you would
potentially owe? And how we should think about, I guess, that deal, the potential of fitting that
into the Novartis [ph] cost structure and business it is today?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yea, thanks, Peter. Probably -- I can't say more than what we've already said, given that we have
an ongoing share tender offer out in the market. So, what we previously outlined is, we believe
there's an opportunity globally for pelabresib in both Europe and in the United States. And that's
an exciting opportunity, given our Jakavi business and the opportunity that we have to leverage
our long history in myelofibrosis and position in myelofibrosis outside the United States, and our
strong hematology footprint inside the United States. So, we would see pelabresib is fitting nicely
within that global infrastructure that we have.
And yes, we would also benefit from the historical royalties, particularly on ianalumab, where we
see the opportunity of a significant medicine, both in immunology and in cancer. And so, I think
that's a pretty exciting opportunity for us to get those royalties back and then, hopefully, drive
very significant medicine with a -- significant medicine in a royalty-free way.And then lastly, the company does have an EZH1/2 inhibitor in prostate cancer that we think could
also be very interesting for us going forward.
So, those are the three components of why we saw value in the deal. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Hello, Andrew, is your line on mute?
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Apologies. Yeah, thank you. Just going back to the ASC4FIRST trial with Scemblix, could you just
expand your previous comments, Vas, on the dynamics of the CML market, particularly the
current market shares in first-line, generically versus others, the Medicare versus non-Medicare
segmentation, just to help us think about the barriers to entry in a different segment in terms of
authorization step edits? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So, Andrew, a couple things. I think, one, we see this is a market that's on the order of 40%
-- 35% to 40% imatinib, so Gleevec generics, and 60% TKIs. And then in terms of commercial and
Medicare, we can come back to you with the exact data. But my recollection is it's largely evenly
split between Medicare and private commercial plans.
So, the way we look at the overall market opportunity in that 60% or so of patients who are on
second-gen TKIs, this is an opportunity as this class goes generic to certainly -- and for
commercial plans as well, given that we won't have to compete against a rebate from those
players, we would certainly have the opportunity to educate physicians on the great profile that
we have here, particularly around the safety profile, also the efficacy profile, and then hopefully
drive switches. And we see that's the early opportunity for the medicine in that second-gen TKI,
particularly second-gen TKI commercial and then, eventually, the Medicare.
We find that patients who are currently on imatinib tend to be -- in community oncology, tend to
be with physicians who have a long history of using imatinib and, therefore, might be more
resistant to change. And that will take us longer to, eventually, I think -- we think, move through,
though, we do think we have good strategies to get there. That segment of the market will be a
longer lift for us to eventually move through.
So, that's in the ex-US -- in the US setting, I think ex-US will really vary by geography. Certainly, in
Europe, it will be critical for us to demonstrate differentiation with imatinib from a payer
standpoint to justify what we think is a fair price for the medicine. We would expect in Japan, in
China, the opportunity for strong uptake. These are markets where we do think we can get
reimbursed. And certainly in Japan, there's a very well educated CML physician community. So
that's, I think, a relatively large opportunity as well.
So that's kind of the high-level dynamics. But I think at the ASCO presentation in June, we can
provide more insights into the overall market structure and how we're seeing the opportunity to
launch the medicine.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks so much for the question. So, really just wanted to focus in on IgAN and some of the
activity that we're seeing from a competitive perspective there and acquisitions in the space. But I
just wanted to get your thoughts on the acquisitions that you've made in IgAN and the
opportunity that you see in that space, whether it be for iptacopan or for the acquisitions that
you've made. I know you specified a lot of opportunity there, but interested to sort of see if you
view this as a validation of the IgAN market opportunity and how you're thinking about the
competitive landscape going forward. Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Seamus. So, in general, I mean, IgAN is, we believe, a significant market opportunity.
These patients don't have -- historically, have not had great medicines. They do progress at a
relatively high rate in the 10-year period towards needing transplantation or going on to dialysis.
And we're talking about a segment here that's over 130,000 patients in the US alone. So, we
think it is a sizable opportunity.
When we think about the treatment paradigm, you -- of course, you start out, you want to --
historically, this has been a steroid-driven treatment paradigm. But we think this will shift to
wanting to somehow manage the hemodynamic component of the medicine -- of these patients
where we have atrasentan. You want to manage then the inflammatory component for these
patients along two dimensions, complement inhibition and APRIL inhibition as well.
Now, we're in a position where we will have atrasentan for hemodynamic inhibition, we'll have
iptacopan for complement inhibition, and we'll have zigakibart, also acquired in our Chinook
acquisition for the anti-APRIL component. We acknowledge there will be competitors, particularly
on the anti-APRIL side of things, where we're going to have a few other competitors enter. But
we believe we'll be the only company positioned with, really, the full range of hemodynamic
complement anti-APRIL. I should note as well, of course, upstream the SGLT2 inhibitors, which are
also going generic, will also be part of that early treatment paradigm.
But post SGLT2 inhibitors and perhaps generic hypertensives, you're going to want to move
down this paradigm of really more potent hemodynamic control and then also trying to get to the
inflammatory component. And we think having three medicines will allow us to be well positioned
with patients, physicians, contracting the various elements of the US supply chain and also
globally. So that's how we're approaching it.
I do think the recent acquisitions do point to that anti-APRIL, and this whole area is exciting, right?
And we have an asset there. Others now are also coming, but certainly something we're looking
at very carefully to also see, can you expand APRIL inhibition with or without BAFF inhibition for
other indications as well?
Next question, operator?Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel from Stifel. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes, thank you. We saw the split in sales by geography on Leqvio being significantly different from
the past, and now, ex-US being more significant than US. Could you maybe elaborate a little bit
on the kind of agreements you reached in ex-US territories, maybe the main three markets in
Europe and China, how the drug is delivered, how you're billing for the drug in those
geographies? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Eric. We're pleased to see Leqvio now getting to a steady march upward in terms
of its overall sales growth. Outside of the United States, there have been a few key dynamics. So,
first is China self-pay, where I mentioned over 250 patients a day, steady growth as well in terms
of the number of patients that we're being able to get on treatment in China. And that's ahead
of where we hope to get listed -- full listing on the NRDL in the first part of next year. And given
the strength of our cardiovascular operations in China, with Entresto, we believe we can drive
pretty significant uptake of Leqvio over time in China.
We also have reimbursement in Japan, and we're in the very early days of launching in Japan. So,
Japan was not a significant contributor in Q1. But we expect consistently now, in the coming
quarters, Japan to be a more significant contribution.
In Europe, we've had very steady uptake in the commercial market in Germany, as well as
improving performance in Italy and the UK. And so -- I mean, UK has been a disappointment
relative to where we hoped it would be, but nonetheless, is steadily moving up as well. And then
interestingly, while it's a smaller contributor, given the number of countries around the globe we
have reimbursement, and we do have public health agreements in places like the Gulf Coast
countries, as well as other markets in our international business. That's also contributing.
So, step by step, all of this comes together to drive the performance that you saw in quarter one.
And we'll see, we hope we can continue that now in the coming quarters and steadily get Leqvio
up to that multi-billion dollar outlook that we've given.
Next question, operator?
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen from TD Cowen. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you so much. On Entresto, were there any one-time factors driving Q1 sales, such as
rebates and/or inventory? If not, then what, in your opinion, led to it not tracking prescriptions in
the quarter? Thank you.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Steve, we're not aware of any one-timers on -- in Entresto. We saw strong TRx growth. We
saw outstanding growth in China, and I think that was a big driver of the performance you saw in
the quarter. Also, steady uptake in Japan. But no one-timers that we're aware of. I'm looking at
Harry. Yeah, so no one-timers that we see. This was just underlying performance, and I think
driven both in the US, but also China and Japan.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for the follow-up. Just wondering, in terms of the NATALEE trial, just -- we were
talking about timing earlier, just what's assumed in your guidance for adjuvant breast cancer for
Kisqali for this year? So, is there any significant contribution in there, or is that de minimis at this
point?
And then just -- I'll slip in a second one. Just at the ASCO event, on Scemblix, I was wondering if
you're going to be in a position to give some sort of updated peak sales guidance for that asset.
There were, obviously, a lot of questions on the call about market opportunity, and that's what
everyone's fishing for. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. On NATALEE, not a material contribution, or really, any contribution in this
year. So, I don't think that's something that needs to be factored in, in terms of our guidance.
On Scemblix, we'll take it under advisement. We can't commit one way or another, but we'll
certainly take the feedback on trying to guide. It's always tough, of course, before we've even
gotten approval or launched a medicine to really know the outlook. But I think we've got
reasonable benchmarks in the CML market with Gleevec and the second-gen TKIs. And as I
outlined, we really believe, but we'll see as we present the data, that this can be really the best-
in-class medicine to treat CML that's been launched in this industry. So, we hope we can live up to
that profile.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our final question. And your final question today comes from the line
of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays, Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `Hi, thanks for taking my question. I wanted [ph] a question on ianalumab, given that this morning
we did see phase 3 success in ITP from a competitor BTK inhibitor. So, I was just wondering, given
that you also have a BTK inhibitor of your own, why you're pursuing ITP with the BAFF inhibition
and you think that that's the right mechanism of action, and why you're also prioritizing second-
line over first-line? I believe that's what it says is the lead indication in the slides. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So, first on BTK inhibition, we really tried to focus our BTK inhibitor outside of the oncology
indications. I mean, we look at the indication range we're pursuing. It's immunology, the full range,
HS, food allergy, CSU. We have also ideas to pursue remibrutinib and other immunology
indications and multiple sclerosis. So we've tried to steer clear of the oncology setting overall and
really focus ianalumab in both oncology, but also in more hard-to-treat immunology indications.
Based on our best guidance from FDA and the agreements on the phase 3 study, we think this
was a step-wise approach in ITP, especially for a subcu medicine like ianalumab. And then -- yeah,
we'll see if we can move into the frontline setting. So I think that's probably the best guidance I
can give. I'm trying to recall if we looked at remibrutinib in ITP, but we'd have to get back to you,
Emily. I just can't recall if we looked at it in our phase 2a program. So, we can come back to you if
we have studied our BTK inhibitor in those indications.
So, thanks very much. I think that was the last question. So, really appreciate everybody's time
today, and we look forward to keeping you updated, and we will see you all at our event at
ASCO. So, thank you, and have a great quarter season, and wish you a great spring.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.