Q3 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
Thank you for waiting. Hello, everyone. Welcome to Toyota's Third Quarter Earnings Results
Briefing. I am `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations, the moderator of this conference from IR department. I'd like to
introduce our speakers. `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer, Executive Vice President and CFO. Nice to meet you.
`Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer for Accounting Group, Chief Officer for Accounting Group. This conference will begin with a
presentation on financial results, followed by a Q&A session.
For today's briefing, we have simultaneous interpretation of Japanese and English, and if you'd
like to prefer Japanese, please choose Japanese language channel rather than original audio.
Please make sure of that. And if you wish to listen to English, please select English from the
interpretation button. So on the financial results, you'll get a short presentation.
Exactly speaking, I'd like to share with you some thoughts at the very outset of this meeting. I
would like to express my deep apology for concerns and worries that we have caused due to
successive irregularities by Hino Motors, Daihatsu Motors and Toyota Industries. We intend to
make a sincerely response to unnecessariness felt by many stakeholders, including customers.
With respect to financial results, I think you have already confirmed numbers, but we have been
able to continue to improve earning structure of the company.
And the fact that we've been able to achieve such sustainable growth is thanks to the business
foundation that we have rebuilt over 14 years, since 2009 when we booked net loss, with many
stakeholders with building ever better cars with an unswerving commitment.
In addition to that, we owe this to many people engaged in production, logistics, sales, and
services who supported us, including suppliers and dealers who supported us. So, I would like to
express our deepest gratitude to all of them. And we intend to further strengthen this business
foundation together with many stakeholders who cheer for us and support us with a medium and
long-term perspective from the past, present, and future. So, that we'll be able to make the
Japanese automotive industry and 5.5 million people engaged in this get highly spirited to create
the future together.
Supported by strong products, we are able to post good business results now. Therefore, now is
the time to solidify our foothold, sow the seeds for the future, and make room for taking up
challenges. In order to overcome shortage of manpower, increase the attractiveness of theof workplace environment and work style will be spread not only to dealers and Tier 1 suppliers,
but also to Tier 2 and beyond.
We are now living in an era where the right answer is unknown. With your support and
encouragement, we will work with you to create the future of mobility. In order to do so, results
that were achieved with the support of many stakeholders will be used for investments for the
future and to contribute to growth with customers, shareholders, suppliers, dealers, employees,
and the community. I would like to ask for your continued support and understanding.
For details, Mr.Yamamoto will make an explanation.
`Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer for Accounting Group `
First, let me explain our financial results following these slides. So, please turn to Page 5 that's
where I'd like to start. This is Page 6. So, let me talk about the financial results for the nine
months. First of all, consolidated vehicle sales for the period was 7,295,000 units, which was
112.4% of the consolidated vehicle sales for the same period of the previous fiscal year. And we
were able to increase sales in all the regions of the world. Furthermore, below the Toyota Lexus
vehicle sales, below that the percentage of Electrified Vehicles the represented 35.9%, which was
26% in the previous year. And those are the numbers.
Let me move on to the consolidated financial results. They were sales revenue JPY34,022.7
billion, operating income was JPY4,240.3 billion. Income before income taxes was JPY357 billion
and net income was JPY3,947.2 billion.
This slide shows the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. If you look at the
middle, the exchange rates had an impact. Increased operating income and cost reduction efforts
led to decrease in operating income by JPY65 billion. Usually, cost reduction efforts lead to
JPY300 billion impact, but this has already been achieved, and this is all because of the efforts
made by the people on the Gemba on site.
For marketing efforts, I will give you some details about the numbers later on, but hybrid vehicles
sales volume increased, and high margin of vehicles increased in sales, and the product mix
improved. And the price revisions, mainly in North America and Europe, led to an increase in
operating income by JPY1,990 billion. For expenses, labor costs and DX-related investments led
to a decrease in operating income by JPY300 billion. So, these are the factors behind the
operating income. We hope you see some questions before, so let me talk about the marketing
efforts.
By mix, JPY1.055 trillion, -- and the mix, JPY370 billion. There was a time when semiconductor
supply was very tight, and up to now, high margin models and Lexus vehicles are now easier to
manufacture, and therefore that had an impact on mix. And for others, JPY815 billion. This mostly
comes from price revisions. In addition to price revisions, marketing incentives are included here,
but so far, the incentives are suppressed at a low level.
Now, this shows the operating income by geographical region. The red bar shows the numbers
for this year. And geographically speaking, we saw an increase in operating income with a very
good balance between regions. And lastly, except for financial services, the vehicle business was
in the red, but we were able to recover from that. And in Europe, highest profit ever. In Asia, it
differs from country to country, but India was very strong, which was a huge factor behind the
increase in income. For other reasons, we have a negative number, the devaluation of Argentina
Peso, it was devaluated to one-fifth.So, because of Japanese Yen translation effect, there is a negative effect. But we are carrying out
initiatives so that we might increase earnings for China for volume. Our strength is in hybrid
vehicles and demand was very solid. And we have a positive number because of that. But the
price competition in the Chinese market is very harsh. So, we will have to introduce incentives.
And if you look at the bar chart, you see that there was a reduction in increase for the financial
services. The low margin came down because of the high interest rates.
Next is the full year forecast. With the full year forecast, not only the volume, later on I will talk
about the profit side. We are causing inconveniences to our customers. We have the impact of
Daihatsu and the Toyota Industries and what we know have been incorporated into the
membership. Consolidated vehicle sales, 9.6 million was the forecast, and now it was revised to
9.45 million. So, it's a downward revision of 150,000.
If you look at the far right, 200,000 in reduction. It's because of Daihatsu and Toyota Industries.
Specifically for Daihatsu, the stoppage is expected -- the stop up to end of February is already
incorporated. And for a TECO engine, the impact is incorporated up to 10th of February. For
North America and Europe, compared to the previous forecast that we are expecting a positive
impact. So, all included, the revision is 150,000 downward.
Now the outlook including the operating income, JPY1.3 trillion in sales revenue and JPY4.5 trillion
in operating income is the number that we gave you before, but JPY3.5 trillion in sales and JPY4.9
trillion, and then before tax it's (inaudible) trillion and net income, JPY4,500 billion is the number
that we have now.
For the full year, foreign exchange rate assumption, as you see here, JPY143 per U.S. dollar, and
JPY154 per Euro. At JPY2.725 trillion to JPY4.9 trillion this shows the analysis of the factors behind
this. The background is very similar to what I explained for the first nine months of this year.
Daihatsu and Toyota Industries, I referred to them, but for Daihatsu, compensation to the
suppliers, compensation to the customers, the expenses for that is included under other here.
The amount cannot be mentioned here, but basically, the expected incurred compensation this
year is to be fully paid at that statements.
So, even if Daihatsu run out of funds, the Toyota will be backing them up so that the
compensation can be paid in full. I talked about the negative volume impact and also the
compensation and including that, or incorporating that, is JPY4.9 trillion this year. And I explained
this already before, but let's say for the volume up to the end of March of this year, if the
operation is stopped, will it be below JPY4.9 trillion, you may have that question. This JPY4.9
trillion, in terms of initiatives, foreign exchange rates, there may be some upside. So, over the
next one or two months, the impact should be absorbed within the JPY4.9 trillion. This may not be
a full explanation, but that is all for my side. Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(Question And Answer)
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to start the Q&A session. If you have a question,
please display the company name as well as your phone name and use the raise hand button.
And if your name is called, please unmute yourself. We would like to have receive questions as
from as many people as possible. I'd like to ask you to limit yourself up to two question per
person. Please note that, if you participate by phone, we are not able to take questions from youbecause we cannot identify your name. So, if you have a question, please click on the raise hand
button on the screen, please.
Now, Yoshida San we will connect you, so please give us a little time. Yoshida San, you are
connected, so could you please unmute yourselves and start speaking?
Q - Analyst
Yes. Thank you very much. The first question is as follows. It relates to production and also
demand and your concept on that. That is to say, in terms of production, you talk about
strengthening foothold and you have in various reports about the overtime work reducing 30% or
production about 10.3 million for '24. And last year '23, you produced 10 million.
But for '24, with strengthening your foothold, what is the likely level of production? So, could you
just describe the interpretation of the meaning of this strengthening of a foothold? In terms of
demand, probably demand seems to be very strong, exceeding the production. Do you still think
that demand will remain still strong? Has there not been any change in the past three months?
The second question relates to this unwinding of cross-share holding. At the end of last year, you
talked about DENSO reducing cross-holdings and your percentage of DENSO equity holding was
25% or 30% reduced. So, what is the background that led to such a winding of cross-holdings?
And this 25% or 30% reduction, is that going to be a benchmark, so to speak, for your efforts
going forward, if that is the case? There are companies in which you own 30% or 40% of their
outstanding shares. If your ownership is reduced to 25% or 20% that could impact supply and
demand in the equity market as well. So, what is the approach to that?
And there are suppliers who own Toyota shares as well. I have not seen any major movements
among them. But since you're talking about a change of a cross-holding within the Group, so
probably would that result in your existing reduction of suppliers owning your shares. In that case,
since you do have a substantial amount of equity capital, are you going to repurchase your own
shares, or are you -- you have been repeatedly talking about your desire to increase the retail
investors owning TMC shares. So, would that result in secondary market offering? So, could you
give us an update on your approach and thinking with respect to cross-shareholding?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer `
Let me first of all respond to your first question, Miyazaki speaking. And there are many questions
because of the good way of speaking by Mr.Yoshida. So, in terms of the strengthening of a
foothold, let me just explain why we use that phrase, the background to that.
As Mr.Yamamoto mentioned in his presentation earlier, up until the first quarter of 2023 fiscal
year, we still face a shortage of semiconductors and therefore, vis-a-vis customers demand, we
are not able to deliver vehicles by strong production for a while that situation continued. Since the
beginning of this fiscal year, there has been some easing of the supply and demand of
semiconductors, and for suppliers and employees asking for their cooperation and
understanding, all the lines have been operating at the full capacity level.
As we did that, especially in October, December quarter, including Japanese market
domestically, the daily production level was extremely high thanks to the hard work of all the
people concerned. If I look back at the situation from now, in terms of our business, we really
have to be engaged in the marathon. That's the sort of business we're engaged in, but actually
we were engaged in spring by having everybody working very hard trying to deliver vehicles toshifted our emphasis too much to that point. And bear that in mind, we are using this phrase of
strengthening foothold.
What do I mean by that? If you look at the production site, we are still suffering from a shortage
of labor and we receive the contract workers, but it's very difficult to keep them, retain them on
the work site. So, the turnover is very high. So, that causes difficulties on the work site and also
suppliers who are overextending themselves trying to keep up with our own production plan. We
simply cannot deny that as a reality.
So, once again, we need to re-examine where our cruising speed is. We're now at the phase
where we need to do that. So, that's why we use this term, strengthening foothold and also
including our efforts to build ever better cars. We have been trying to produce and deliver those
vehicles, but at the same time, we saw those issues that happened at Daihatsu and through the
industries. And therefore, we need to examine once again what we are doing is in line with what
we should be doing. Have we been doing our business properly?
And also on the part of dealers, looking at what is actually happening. Those dealers who should
be simply marketing or selling the vehicles to customers, but they're spending a lot of time
explaining to customers and apologizing to customers for the fact that their ordered vehicles
have not been delivered in time. So, that's why we are now trying to re-examine the situation to
set or see the cruising speed. So, as we do that, the next year's plan, where is it going to land
compared with the current fiscal year. We would like to determine as we engage ourselves in
such activities to strengthen foothold.
In the first half of the current fiscal year, the operation was not at the full level, but in the second
half, we see the production going at the full operation, so there has been some change. So, in
the next fiscal year, we would like to bring that to a cruising speed. So, what should be the level
that we aim at, we would like to determine that as we move towards the fiscal year end, and we
would like to report the result to you.
In terms of demand, it has been exceeding production. Has there been any change to that
situation? Earlier, I think we talked about the sales of 10.4 million units, but probably I said the
actual real demand exceeds that. What I know currently, compared with the 10.4 million, the
demand is more or less on line with that level. I think the environment has slowed down to that
extent, I believe.
With respect to next year, the growth that we've seen up until this moment may slow down a little
bit, and therefore, basically the demand is likely to continue at the similar level as we have seen
during the current fiscal year. So, in that context, by determining the level of our capacity of
production compared with our own capability, we would like to continue to deliver those vehicles
to customers on time.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Yoshida San. The questions related to the equity holdings and cross-
holdings within the Group, and we want to be updating of that. The progress is being made, but
when it comes to specific companies, it's really difficult for me to convey the up-to-date
information in the concrete manner to you. So, of course, what has been decided will be
conveyed to you within the timeframe that we have promised.
When we talked about the DENSO shares, we talked about 20%. And I may be repeating myself,
as I said previously, that Toyota having a certain level of influence, and that is 20% of the level
that is within the Toyota's influence. But will 20% apply to all the companies, probably not. I thinkthe margin of reduction will vary from company to company. When we consider, what is the
completeness of Toyota Group itself?
Originally, Kiichiro Toyoda created Automotive Club, and that has evolved into specialized
companies, and they operated in the competitive world, and those companies became very
specialized companies, but they are connected with very loose relationship and that made
Toyota Group very strong when it is engaged in marathon, so to speak.
So, when we consider that, what would be the appropriate level of equity ownership, and when
we consider that 20% was one reference point. But some companies, 20% may not be the
appropriate level. It should be the same in other cases, and therefore, the margin of reduction
may have different patterns or may have different levels depending upon the company. I'm not
quite sure if I responded, answered your question as expected, but as I said, as soon as a
decision is made, I intend to convey that swiftly. Thank you very much.
Q - Analyst
Can you hear a comment on the shares that you hold?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Once we make a decision, would be the answer. From various companies, we hear some
opinions, but we are still in discussion, so it will be very difficult to respond to that question now.
Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
Thank you very much to Mr.Yoshida. Next. BofA Securities, Yanagi-san.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much for your precious time. My name is Yanagi from BofA Securities. I have two
questions. First, in three of this new business performance, what is your interpretation or analysis
of the numbers close to JPY1.7 trillion in profits in three months. If there is no change to the
exchange rate, maybe you can quadruple that for the full year. But of course, there's the issue of
Daihatsu and the production level. But from your capability as a company, what is your analysis of
this number? That is my first question.
And going on to the second question, which is about hybrids. Increase in sales of hybrids, so how
much of positive effect does that have on your business performance, can you give us a hint on
that? Three months ago, you mentioned that mix wise, an increase in hybrids would be a positive
factor. And when you talked about the breakdown, I think the positive side of the mix includes
that. And of that positive number, what was the impact of hybrids? And in the United States, for
example, hybrids have a very strong demand, I understand. So, compared to ICE models, do you
have lower levels of incentives for hybrids?
Sorry, I'm getting long, but by region, traditionally, Japan and Europe had higher margins than
average for hybrids in this situation, in the United States or China, or maybe China is different, but
compared to the overall numbers, would it have a positive impact on the mix? With the increase
in hybrids, what kind of impact would that have on your overall business performance? That is a
second question.
A - Unidentified SpeakerThank you very much for the question. First question, Q3 performance analysis, a little less than
JPY1.7 trillion times 4, you mentioned please don't quadruple that number. We haven't been able
to do a down-to-earth analysis yet, but this year in nine months, JPY4.2 trillion, compared to the
same to last year is a positive JPY2 trillion, number wise, this is big.
However, if you look at the background, the game of people, the people on site, worked hard
and against supply difficulties and where we had back orders. So, we started from there. So, the
numbers are big for this year. But does this really reflect our true capabilities? Can we be over-
complacent? As Mr.Miyazaki mentioned, we have to strengthen our foothold. We will have to
review our real strength. Safety, quality, cost in the order of importance, those are what we will be
working on and also we will have to confirm what is our true capability to make profits. So, if you
have too high an expectation that may be too much.
Let me add something from my side. Q3 profits, as I mentioned before, the semiconductor issue
went away and in Q3, we started to operate at full capacity. So, it was like we were doing a sprint
race during the three months, so that is why now we are thinking of going back to cruise speed.
We are operating at full capacity, so we had a positive impact on the product mix.
If you look at the overall supply chain, including the dealers, we have to make sure that this
industry as a whole is made attractive. Otherwise, we will not be able to attract capable people.
In order to do that, at the Gemba, we will have to have diversity of human resources. So, in terms
of work style improvement, we will have to establish a little bit of infrastructure for that.
And as I mentioned before, we have the support of many stakeholders and that is why we now
have the resources. So, including dividends to the shareholders, we will have to think about how
to spend that. So, the performance of Q3 includes all those efforts. And, therefore, please do not
simply quadruple the results for Q3 for the full year.
Now, how much impact do hybrids have on the business performance? There's one thing I'd like
you to understand. The margin of hybrids and conventional engine margins are almost at the
same level now. So, people would think that with Electrified Vehicles, the profit margins will come
down. But, in our business, hybrids are not in that situation. So, if the mix of hybrids within
Electrified Vehicles go up, the volume increase will have a positive impact on our profitability. That
is the situation now, so please understand that point.
And in addition to that, 2023 global sales, if you look at that number, a hybrid account to over
30% or 33%. In 2022, it was about 27%, so both in terms of volume and share, hybrids are going
up. Globally speaking, in all regions, the share of hybrids are going up. So, we want to deliver as
many vehicles to our customers, so both in Japan and globally, we are working hard to produce
vehicles.
In the case of the United States, we almost have no inventory of vehicles to sell. That was the
situation at the dealers. But more recently, per day sales at each dealer, if you base the numbers
on that, we have an inventory for two weeks worth of sales. If you look at the breakdown, for
hybrids, the inventory level is less than one day of sales, more so than conventional models.
We don't need to use incentives to sell our vehicles to our customers. So, for hybrid vehicles, the
basic margin is almost the same as conventional vehicles. And in terms of popularity among our
customers, it is selling well and making profits. So, if the mix of hybrids go up, and basically it will
have a positive impact on our profitability. That is our business structure at the moment.
(Foreign Language).Thank you very much for the first question. JPY1 trillion profit for the full year. So, if the overall
profit is JPY4 trillion, about half is probably North America.
Q - Analyst
Thank you.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
Thank you very much to Mr.Keiji Yamamoto. Next, from the Nomura Securities, (inaudible)
Q - Analyst
Yes, please. I have two questions. First, at Daihatsu, Hino, and Toyota Industries, the problem was
development. Compared to five or six years ago, compared to increase in sales, the increase in
development cost was relatively suppressed. So, development cost against sales was the latter
half of the '20. So, you were very efficient in development. So, based on what happened for the
future, when it comes to new vehicle launch, or how to utilize development resources, or how to
utilize a development? So, I think you had a very good cycle in launching new vehicles before, but
at a very high level, in which direction do you intend to make changes? So, that is my first
question.
The second question is about the Chinese business, if you just look at Q3, compared to the
previous year, compared to the previous quarter, you see improvement, although the situation
was difficult, you are making profits. You mentioned sales of hybrid vehicles, but if you look at the
current Chinese market and towards 2024, what is your view of the Chinese market? So, the
situation is relatively good, but do you think this is sustainable? And over the next two or three
years, what is your expectation of the Chinese market? Those are the two questions.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Competitive Officer `
This is Miyazaki, and let me respond to your questions. First about the development cost. We've
always said that the needs of the customers are diverse, and we are trying to transform
ourselves into a mobility company. And in doing so, the development cost, you will have to utilize
the necessary development cost from a broad perspective. But even if we increase development
cost, we have to efficiently and effectively utilize it. And in order to do that, we will have to
effectively allocate human resources. So, with the strengthening of resources, we'll work on that.
In addition to the hardware resources, we'll need software resources as well. There -- the speed
and area of the necessary technologies will also be looked at. There is no change in our policy in
that sense. From our perspective, we have to effectively and efficiently utilize the cost. We'll have
to work on that. So, we have to look at the relationship between input and output and make
efficient use of the cost. We have to make sure that there is no unnecessary strain on our
resources and capabilities.
Your second question was about China. Last year, if you look at the overall Chinese market, the
Chinese manufacturers share had grown to close to 50% according to the data. Compared to
the previous year, there has been an increase of the Chinese manufacturers share by about 5%.
We have been able to maintain our share at the same level as the previous year. That is the
situation now.
Towards 2024, what do we intend to do? For the first time, we introduced the BEVs and as the
core manufacturers, when we developed the vehicles, riding comfort and driving feel are pointscabin space is what they mentioned. So, how to spend your time inside the vehicle? It's
something that we haven't been able to think about before for vehicles for the Chinese market.
So, in that sense, we will have to accelerate improvement of our product.
If you look at competition of BEVs, as Mr.Yamamoto mentioned at the outset. The competition is
becoming harsher and we are seeing intensifying competition over price to avoid being engaged
in price reduction and doing business in the Chinese market. Our engine technology will be a
differentiation factor. So, in that sense, PHEVs will be very important. So, in parallel with preparing
for BEVs, strengthening PHEVs in the Chinese market is something that we want to strengthen
and accelerate.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. Just one point of clarification, efficient use, of course, has not changed, and
you will look at the overall balance to be in line with your capabilities, but I have a more specific
question. Traditionally, every five or six years, we change the models, and on top of that, you
launch EVs, so would that basically remain unchanged, or would the launch timing be drastically
changed, which is closer to what you have in mind?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Sorry. I'm not able to explain this very well, but our product strength awesome, Myself, who is
responsible for the business, I think we are very blessed with our product. So, changing models or
making minor changes just because it is the time is not what we focus on. Minor changes, major
changes, we will look at the timing and when possible we might extend the cycle and so that we
can make adjustments to the number of projects or development projects so that it is aligned
with our capabilities.
So, as a direct answer to your question, compared to the past pace, the pace may come down a
bit. The interval may be longer. And the reason is because our products are very strong. We have
very high quality of products. Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. Thank you for the question. From Daiwa Securities, I would like to invite
Hakomori-san, so please wait before the connection gets we made. Hakomori-san, please start
speaking.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. Hakomori is my name. Can you hear me?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, we can.
Q - Analyst
My question relates to Page 5 of the slides. The transformation into mobility company, and you
talk about strengthening of a value chain, and you also talked about that in the half year results
announcement. Could you be more specific, that is to say, the contribution made by the increase
in those new business? What is the size of this bar chart? Could you just give us such a numerical
figure that we can combine that with the image? That's the first question.And the second question relates to the next fiscal year. I'm not really interested in concrete
numbers, but in terms of a cost reduction and also raw materials prices, what is likely to happen
going forward? That's why we have been supporting suppliers. And those small items are
incorporated there in the past. Going forward, what would be the relationship between cost
reduction efforts and also the raw materials prices? Combining those, what is the likely trend that
you can see right now?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Hakomori-san, thank you for your question. About your first question about the value chain, I'm
sorry that I was not able to give you a good, a proper explanation. And you pointed out the slide
and Page 4. The reason why we added this slide for this presentation relates to the our initiative
to strengthen work, which we intend to implement not just in the TMC, but together with the
suppliers and other participants turned.
And beyond that lies this slide, which I was not able to fully explain. If we divide this profit
between new car and value chain, at the time of the first quarter explanation, I said that relation is
one versus one. But this time, because the greater contribution was made by marketing efforts,
and I simply cannot cite specific value, but as shown by the bars, value chain showed some
improvement, and more than that improvement, the increase in profit from a new car business
was bigger. I don't think this would represent sustainable growth path going forward.
Since we've been able to have this UIO of 100 million units that's our strength. So, using that units
in operation, we would like to connect vehicles with customers, expanding that channel so that
we can generate profit from that relationship. So, not just new car sales, but we would like to
increase the earnings from value chain services. And that, I think, would represent one important
change in the earnings structure as we move toward a mobility company. Of course, we are
halfway through in that effort, and I wanted to convey that concept to you, and that's why I added
this slide. But that's a very important point. So, we would like to achieve good, proper growth of
new cars as well as value chain businesses.
As Miyazaki-san mentioned earlier, at this point in time, we are running at the full speed, and the
new car business grew very rapidly. And that's where we stand in terms of a real position. And
about the direction of a cost reduction and also the raw materials prices for the next fiscal year
was your second question. As far as we're concerned, we'll continue to make every effort for cost
reduction. But with strong determination, what we would like to do now is as follows.
This, I think, is related to our efforts to strengthen foothold. But as we build cars, even if one
simple part component is missing, we cannot build a vehicle. So, those people working at Gemba
or suppliers, they're all suffering from a shortage of labor. And despite that, including overtime
work or holiday work, they're trying to achieve those productions that they wish to accomplish.
So, from that perspective, we need to enhance the attractiveness of automotive industry by
improving the way people work and also improve the work site environment. Unless we do a
good job in those areas, we will not be able to ensure sustainable growth of automotive industry.
Fortunately, as I reported to you today, thanks to the tremendous support from all of you, we've
been able to achieve a good number for profitability. So, on that point, the dealers, the suppliers,
not just Tier 1 suppliers, but including Tier 2 and beyond suppliers, we would like to make sure
that those initiatives for improving work site environment or work style be implemented. And we
would like to talk to them so that those initiatives can be made by suppliers and dealers as well.
So, in terms of the direction, make sure that all the people engaged in automotive industrybecome highly spirited. So, for us to be able to do that, we would like to continue with the cost
reduction efforts to absorb the higher materials price.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
Thank you very much to Mr.Hakomori. Let us now take the two last questions. Okasan Securities,
Naruse-san, we will connect you, so please wait a while. Naruse-san?
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Okasan Securities Co., Ltd. `
Thank you very much. My name is Naruse. Do you hear me? I have two quick questions. First
about the impact of irregularities. 200,000 units you mentioned, 200,000 units. I think it's mostly
Daihatsu. What is the breakdown between Daihatsu and Toyota Industries? You said it's difficult to
mention the amount of impact, but if you turn to Page 15, I think the volume wise is included and
the volume, what about the compensation? Where is this -- where does this belong? I just wanted
to know about the general size of the impact. Daihatsu is 100% subsidiary, so of course that will
be included, but in the case of Toyota Industries, I think you're on the side of asking for a
compensation, so what is your view?
And second, Page 9, Asia is growing and you refer to India, and you announce the construction of
a new factory in the first nine months. How much contribution did India make? And what is your
view on the future Indian strategy? More than 4 meter, and the premium segment, you are
working hard, but will you continue that? Will you be expanding segments? With the construction
of the new factory, will you talk about that and the relationship of (inaudible)
A - Unidentified Speaker
First, the compensation cost. As you mentioned, in terms of this bolar chart, it is included under
others, within the others category. In terms of amount, it's difficult to say, but let me briefly talk
about what is included here. For example, car rental, car inspections and registration, and taxes,
while the cars cannot be delivered and compensation for lower trading prices. So, these are the
compensation costs for customers. And for suppliers, including Tier 2 suppliers.
We are currently going through a hearing at the time. While the operation is stopped, the salary
of the employees and materials and parts, cancellation fees for orders that are already in place,
and also you will have to stock or store the materials, so costs will be incurred. And also there will
be maintenance costs of equipment, although they are stopped. And when you resume
operation -- preparation costs will be incurred. So, these will be included as compensation
expenses for suppliers. A fixed cost in the manufacturing sector will account for about 30% to
40% of sales. So, 24% of things purchased by Daihatsu would be the maximum compensation
cost incurred. Very general image.
So, I will talk about the Indian business. For India, in terms of 2023 sales, it was over 200,000. I
think it was something like 220,000. And as a result, if you look at the by country sales ranking,
India is ranked 9th. So, it has grown to be a large market. And one driving force was the newly
introduced hybrid vehicle, a C-segment vehicle. And this vehicle is doing very well, driving volume.
In the past, India profit wise, tended to be on the side of dragging the feet, but with the
introduction of the new vehicle, we are producing Suzuki's vehicle as well, so that has contributed
positively to our profitability.In that sense, maybe I shouldn't say new factory, but within the TKM site, we introduced a new
line, and we decided last year to increase the capacity by 100,000. Currently, for hybrids, the
Indian customers are waiting for more than six months. So we will try to respond to that strong
demand with this new line.
We have received questions from you before on the forecast of hybrids in the future. In the past,
we gave us the numbers of 5 million. What happened to that was a question. And I think, we said
that 2026 is a possible target year for 5 million. But in India, we are seeing an increase in demand.
And globally and in advanced nations, we are continuing to see popularity of hybrid vehicles. So,
maybe 5 million hybrids in 2025 is a possibility. And we will have to be prepared for that.
On the other hand, for battery EVs, 1.5 million was our reference point. But we are nearing 2026.
But as we mentioned, there is a situation of the Chinese market, and including other OEMs, so
we are seeing a general change in the environment. So, when we make the decision on the
actual CapEx, we will have to review the numbers with the Co-Head.
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Okasan Securities Co., Ltd. `
Thank you very much. Just quickly, Yamamoto-san, the impact of Toyota Industries compensation
there, is that included?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer for Accounting Group `
No. Compensation relating to Toyota Industries is not included.
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Okasan Securities Co., Ltd. `
Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Naruse-san. Then, I would like to entertain questions from one person before ending
that. Yuzawa-san of Goldman Sachs. Please give us time to connect you. Okay. Please start
speaking.
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Goldman Sachs `
Yuzawa of Goldman Sachs. Thank you for your time. I have two questions. The first question, in
terms of a unit vehicle, the operating income of profitability has improved significantly. In terms of
sustainable growth, I would like to ask about the direction next year and two years from now, the
price trend, also the product mix and also the value chain business and materials, what is the
likely trend of the growth of that we follow?
The second question relates to hybrids vehicles and how subject. In the actual real sales situation,
what is happening? Why demand for hybrid is so strong and why is demand for BEV weaker than
expected? You might say that it is just along with your expectations or assumptions, but I would
like to know the real reaction from customers.
A - Unidentified Speaker
In terms of improvement of profitability per unit that is quite true. And going forward, I think there
is likely to be substantial improvement from the current level. So, I think we do -- I'm not quite
sure whether we have strength or room to further increase those profitability per vehicle as we
have accomplished thus far. But as I mentioned earlier, it stems not just from profit from new carsales, but we need to nurture the profit coming from value chain. So that I think is a major topic
that we need to really address ourselves next fiscal year and beyond price, mix and also raw
materials, the issues you asked about.
The product strength that is highly evaluated by customers, I think, affected the current product
mix for the result of the current fiscal year that might continue for next fiscal year, and then
maybe the spread of the price revision right there, and materials, including steel or cobalt, they
are showing some easing, shall I say, or have come down from a very high level.
And the Gemba of our operation, including suppliers, are making every effort to improve cost
situation, trying to reduce cost and achieve savings from cost. So, those will be continued in
implementation and promoted. So, we can expect good results from them. But at the same time,
we need to sow seeds in new areas so that we can nurture those further.
Let me talk about the (inaudible) situation of battery EVs and hybrid vehicles. So, in the past
business performance, about 10.4 million in sales. In looking at our business, considering the
market demand that I feel day to day, there may be some upside. At this moment, 10.4 million
seems to be a possible point to be reached. But what would be the impact of Daihatsu into other
industries.
So, moving toward the fiscal year end, we would closely examine that and include that in the
outlook. In that context, with respect to the United States, of course, our competitors do have
quite good inventory level and they have been increasing incentives. And in Europe, the market
seems to be showing some signs of respite, so to speak. So, the growth might slow down a little
bit next year and beyond. That's how I look at the situation. So, in that general setting, if anything,
there may be some incentive competition or price reduction competition. We may be at that
stage, but as I mentioned earlier, hybrid vehicles still continues to enjoy very strong demand. So,
without using any incentives, we've been able to sell hybrid vehicles.
So, in the overall context, without reducing unit price, Toyota may be able to hold the current
pace without reducing the unit price because of this strong hybrid demand. In that, in terms of
BEV, in the United States and Europe, our competitors are making efforts to introduce BEVs as
quickly as possible, but we have maintained our policy of offering multi-pathways and taking a
portfolio approach in introducing different models.
In that context, if we use the United States as one example, Tesla, in a period of one year or so,
their selling price has come down by around $20,000, and other OEMs, on the other hand, at this
moment, are offering $7,000 in terms of incentives in selling their vehicles, and that's the reality
of the market currently.
In Europe, the BEVs, the transactions in major countries in Europe, incentives seem to be
increasing quite significantly compared with a year ago, the incentive per unit seems to have
doubled thus far. So, what is different? I think the infrastructure for BEVs are still not fully
developed, still in the process of developing, and as a realistic solution for carbon neutrality and
referring to various ease of usage of those vehicles, BEVs may not have really matured yet. On
the other hand, a hybrid doesn't require any specialized infrastructure and can achieve growth, so
that seems to be the major factor in the difference between hybrid vehicles and BEVs.
In China, compared with the growth of battery vehicles, the PHEVs are growing more strongly. So,
this I think reflects the recognition of customers that PHEVs would represent realistic solutions to
what they are seeking. So, in that context, we talked about 1.5 million units to be achieved by
2026. And taking this market pathway approach, we are preparing ourselves for different choicesallocate the financial resources. We are looking at those real-world situations to make the right
decision. If you have any information that will help us make decisions, please let us know that
information.
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you very much for explanation.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Yuzawa. And with this, we would like to conclude the Q3 earnings results briefing.
Thank you very much for participating despite your busy schedules. If you have any additional
questions, please contact our IR people. Thank you very much.