Q2 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q2 2024 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) A
recording of the conference call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our website
shortly after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Ms. `Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, madam.
`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Operator. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining our Q2
2024 Earnings Call. The information presented today contains forward-looking statements that
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. These may cause actual results
to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or
implied by such statements. For a description of some of these factors, please refer to the
company's Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly results on Form 6-K that, respectively, were
filed with and furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission. I'd also like to remind
everyone to please limit yourself to one question and we'll cycle through the queue as many
times as we can.
And with that, I will hand across to Vas.`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sloan, and, thank you, everyone, for joining today's conference call. With me on the
call, as always, is our CFO, `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer.
So starting with Slide 4, as you saw in quarter two, we continued the strong growth performance
at Novartis, which gives us conviction that we are well on track to deliver our 5% plus sales growth
up to 2028 and our 40% margin target in 2027. You saw that sales on the quarter were up 11% in
constant currency, core operating income up 19%. Our core margin reached 39.6%, reflecting our
outstanding productivity programs, but also as a consequence of our strong sales growth. In
addition, we had important innovation highlights in the quarter, which we'll review over the course
of the call. But some of the really important ones included Scemblix first-line CML FDA
submission, updated Kisqali NATALEE data, which we think really support the outstanding profile
of Kisqali in the adjuvant setting in the early breast cancer setting, and we're looking forward to
presenting that outstanding data at an upcoming medical congress. And continuing to build out
our renal portfolio with the Atrasentan submission, as well as our broader portfolio of
presentations at the recent ERA meetings. Taken together, this allowed us to upgrade our full-
year 2024 core operating income guidance. Harry will go through that in more detail.
Now moving to Slide 5. Our Q2 growth was broad-based and we had strong contributions from
multiple of our outstanding growth drivers. Importantly, Kesimpta was off to a really outstanding
start earlier in the year and continued that momentum. Kisqali also continued its strong moment.
Cosentyx with the recent launches continues to grow in a robust way. We saw steady growth in
Pluvicto, strong growth in Leqvio and Scemblix, and taken together, a 37% constant currency
growth which we expect to continue.
So taking each one of these brands in turn, step by step. Entresto delivered 28% growth in
quarter two and we continue to have high confidence we will exceed our $7 billion peak sales
guidance for this medicine. That growth was driven by all core geographies. You can see here in
the middle panel, US Weekly TRx reached another record high. That 25% growth was fueled by
consistent demand across the various segments that we compete in. Outside of the US, growth
was 30% with strong contribution from China and Japan where we continue to see momentum
from Entresto in heart failure, but importantly as well in hypertension.
So we remain confident in the continued sustained performance of the medicine. For forecasting
purposes, we continue to assume an Entresto LoE in mid-2025. However, we continue to enforce
our patents and litigate our patents and will ensure that we maximize this brand for as long as
possible in the United States, alongside, EU RDP in November 2026.
Now moving to Slide 7. Cosentyx grew at 22% in the quarter and this is fueled by our new
launches. And I think importantly, if you take a step back, puts us well on our trajectory to reach $7
billion plus of peak sales for Cosentyx. When you look at the demand growth by geography, the
US grew 34%, driven by volume. Ex-US we were up 10% and this was partially offset by one-time
pricing effects due -- in Germany, in particular due to the addition of additional new indications,
normal part of the German process as you get additional indications, you do see price
adjustments.
We see Cosentyx doing very well in its core indications. I think important dynamic is the strong
launch in HS is supporting us in our core indications of psoriasis, PsA, and AS, we're the number
one IL-17 in the US dynamic market, the lead originator biologic in Europe and China. In HS, we're
seeing a very strong uptake with market leadership share of over 60% in the NBRx. In Germany,
we're over 50%. And I think importantly, with the launch of Cosentyx, we're seeing increaseddiagnosis and desire to treat amongst physicians and patients, which I think will allow the HS
market to grow to larger than it's historically been and, of course, allow Cosentyx to help these
patients achieve their treatment goals. For Cosentyx IV, we saw solid adoption with over 700
accounts now ordering. And we do expect further demand increases in the second half now that
we have a permanent J-code in effect as of July 1.
So moving to Slide 8. Kesimpta also delivered, as I mentioned, a very strong quarter two, 65%
growth. This was broad-based in terms of its geographic growth profile. Over 100,000 patients
have now been treated worldwide naive or first switch with Kesimpta. In the US, we saw 49%
growth. This demand growth was driven by TRx volume of 43% versus prior year. We gained 4%
market share overall in the segment. Outside of the US, we have NBRx leadership in 7 out of 10
major markets.
So looking forward, we feel confident we will exceed our Kesimpta $4 billion guidance -- peak
sales guidance. We seek strong trajectory for this brand. Its profile is unique. Self-administered B-
cell treatment option, one minute a month dosing, no steroid pre-treatment required, an
attractive safety profile with respect to injection side reactions. Persistence and adherence, we're
seeing in the real-world setting is comparable to infused B-cell therapies. We also continue to
generate data which support the strong efficacy profile of this medicine.
So moving to Slide 9, Kisqali grew 50% in the metastatic setting with now leading or continued
leading NBRx share in the US and ex-US. As you know, Kisqali has an outstanding data profile in
the metastatic breast cancer setting that's really supporting us consistently now around the world.
In the US, we saw 67% growth where we gained widespread adoption. We have a leading share
now. NBRx share of 47%. 7,000 HCP is now prescribing and that provides us a very strong base of
physicians which we can leverage as we move to the early breast cancer launch.
Similarly, outside of the US, 35% growth. As the preferred CDK4/6 inhibitor, we have a leading
share of 38%. We're the fastest-growing CDK4/6 inhibitor in Europe. And when you look at the
early breast cancer setting, we're on track now for a launch in half two. We've completed the
manufacturing adjustments in close collaboration with FDA, which we outlined earlier in the year.
We're now anticipating a US approval by the end of quarter three. We remain confident in a
broad label based on the consistency of results that we've seen across the NATALEE population.
And as we announced this morning, we have now updated NATALEE data with a median follow-
up of four years. All patients have now completed their three-year course of the medicine. And
we see continued clinically meaningful benefit, consistent safety profile, and we believe very
compelling results that will really support the launch of this medicine. And so we're really excited
to present that data at an upcoming medical meeting and continue to support that Kisqali will
hopefully be the preferred medicine for patients with early breast cancer.
Now moving to Slide 10. So Pluvicto demonstrated very steady growth versus prior year. Now,
when you take a step back on Pluvicto, we're now in a transition point where our early rapid
uptake is now transitioning to a place where we need to generate demand in a next wave of
centers and then eventually out in community oncology, both for the success of Pluvicto but also
for the long-term success of RLT. That said, we remain highly confident in the long-term
prospects of Pluvicto to be a multibillion-dollar medicine across the various segments that we'll
compete in. We do believe that once we're through this period, we will get back to robust
growth, particularly driven by the PSMAfore indication and later the mHSPC and all the metastatic
indications. We had growth, as I mentioned, of 44% on the quarter.
Now when you look specifically at the VISION population, we estimate our market share is in the
mid-30% with 50% share in established RLT treatment sites. We see a dynamic where the siteswhere we're well established, we could have market shares above 90%. We have another group
of sites where we're working to go from 50% to 90%. And then we have a third -- about a third
of sites of the 475 treatment sites that we're operating in where we need to now get from 10%
of share of the VISION population, hopefully up over time now to 50% and 90%, and that will
drive the steady growth that we expect over the course of the coming quarters.
Now when you look specifically at what we're doing to supercharge Pluvicto and also enable us to
build a broad capacity for the system to take on RLT, we're increasing our US promotional efforts
including a field force expansion which is now completed. We'll be launching a DTC campaign in
quarter three. We'll also have the phase launch of the patient-ready dose, which is a very
important tightening step, and that it reduces the time from providing Pluvicto from around an
hour to less than 10 minutes. And this will allow sites to hopefully take on more patients,
especially sites that have significant capacity to take on more vision patients. And then lastly we
had German pricing approved, which is why you've seen the uplift in the ex-US market -- ex-US
sales profile.
So looking ahead, FDA submission for PSMAfore on track in half two. We already have profiled
the positive trend in OS and PSMAfore. China's submission is planned in the second half and we
did do a groundbreaking now for a RLT manufacturing site in China alongside planned zone for
also manufacturing site in Japan and in PSMAddition and PSMA-DC continue to progress as per
plan.
Moving to Slide 11. Leqvio had strong growth as well, 134% growth. I think we're seeing step by
step more and more acceptance of the options. (inaudible) twice-a-year medicine to achieve
50% to 60% cholesterol lowering. And that's a trend we're seeing broad based around the
world. We have now 4200 facilities ordering Leqvio in the US. We continue to steadily expand our
breadth and depth, continue to generate additional data to support the profile of Leqvio as we
move also towards our outcomes trials -- two outcomes trials for Leqvio, as well as continue to
progress efforts to move Leqvio into the frontline setting for cholesterol management. Outside
of the US, our rollout continues with over 35 countries with reimbursement, strong market growth
24% versus prior year. And so we feel confident that step by step, Leqvio also is progressing
towards its multibillion-dollar goal.
Then moving to Slide 12, Scemblix momentum continued in quarter two. And I think as you're all
aware, we have US market leadership in the third-line setting. And most importantly, at ASCO, we
presented our outstanding first-line data, which I'll go in a little bit further detail about on the next
slide. Now when you look at the third line setting, we're the market leader in NBRx and TRx share
in the US, outstanding performance as well we're seeing outside of the United States. TRx and
monthly prescribers continue to grow across all geographies.
One important note for modeling purposes is that shortly we'll be launching 100 milligram SKU
for the T315I patients, a patient group that requires 400 milligrams of Scemblix, which is about 10
pills per day. They'll now be able to take 4 pills per day. But what that will lead to is about a $15
million sales that will not repeat in quarter two and quarter three. So for all your modeling, just to
take into account that because of that price adjust -- the 100 milligram dose being launched, and
because we have consistent pricing across SKUs, that adjustment just needs to be factored into
your models for Scemblix.
But more importantly, we're very confident in the first-line opportunity. We have FDA submission
under real-time oncology review. We received breakthrough therapy designation. I think all of you
saw the truly outstanding data at ASCO that position Scemblix as the medicine of choice forpatients in the frontline setting. And we're looking forward to also completing our ex-US
submissions in 2024 and 2025.
Now moving to Scemblix ASCO data. As a reminder, this was the data that demonstrated
superior efficacy and a favorable safety and tolerability profile against standard-of-care TKIs in
first-line CML. Efficacy-wise, superior MMR rates, and also deep molecular response importantly
as well against all TKIs and against Imatinib with very impressive differences. We had earlier
achievement of MMR, greater depth of responses. Also important improvements versus second
gen TKIs and MMR speed and depth. And then very importantly as well for these patients, and I
think from a physician standpoint as well, outstanding safety and tolerability. Fewer grade 3 AEs,
fewer dose adjustments or interruptions, really making Scemblix, I think, from a safety profile the
medicine of choice for these patients. So we're very excited about bringing this medicine
forward.
We guided to $3 billion-plus peak sales for Scemblix. As a reminder, Scemblix has protection into
the mid-2030s. Also, it's not because as a rare disease medicine will not be part -- expected to
be part of the IRA. So a really great profile, great medicine, very excited about its future.
Now turning to Fabhalta, we had the US PNH launch, which is off to a very encouraging start. We
saw really strong growth in quarter two versus quarter one. Ex-US approvals have also been
received now in multiple markets. When you look at the profile of Fabhalta, we're making steady
progress. We have REMS-certified HCPs ahead of competitive benchmarks. We see continued
uptake across naive and switch patients. Patients are getting treated across all hemoglobin levels,
but also including those patients at 10 to 12 who are just slightly below normal, I think -- and
showing the interest there is in a twice-a-day oral option.
We also see increasing commercial coverage as part of our -- from our bridge program. So, all on
track with respect to Fabhalta. We would expect in the second half to now see steady growth but
also to take into account that the bolus of patients that we saw in the first half, especially the
conversion from bridge, likely won't repeat in the second half. So our growth rate will be steady.
And I think it's exciting, but also certainly not at the rates that we saw in the early part of the year.
Now moving to Slide 15. Turning to our renal portfolio, as you all know, we've been working to
build a attractive portfolio to manage IgAN, C3G, and related renal diseases. And as part of that
effort, we acquired Atrasentan. And in the Phase 3 ALIGN-IgAN study, we announced that ERA in
May, a 36% proteinuria reduction relative to placebo. We're very excited about this medicine, as
we think it can be a foundational medicine that provides hemodynamic and nephroprotective
potential for patients and physicians. It's a clinically meaningful proteinuria reduction. We see a
very favorable safety profile. We think up to 50% of patients with persistent proteinuria progress
to kidney failure. So important that these patients get better options. We've submitted to FDA,
and, of course, the study continues in a blinded fashion to 2026, when we would read out eGFR.
So looking forward to launching this medicine in 2025. Alongside that with Iptacopan, we also
announced at ERA the full Phase 3 APPEAR-C3G study which demonstrated 35% proteinuria
reduction relative to placebo.
You can see the design on the left-hand side of the slide. On the right-hand side, you see that
impressive minus 30% versus an increase of 7.6% in the placebo arm. We saw numerical
improvements in eGFR, favorable safety profile overall. This would be the first treatment --
potential treatment targeting the complement pathway in C3G. And again, in these patients,
50% of patients develop kidney failure requiring dialysis. Now, importantly today, we're also
announcing that we have end-of-study results for this medicine at the 12-month time point. That
data is consistent with the six-month data, which now allows us to move forward with the filing inthe second half of 2024 with an expected launch next year. We'll present that end-of-study data
at an upcoming medical meeting. But I think this is an important update for this medicine, allowing
us to now have Fabhalta, hopefully next year in three separate indications.
I'd also note we're also working to develop Fabhalta in atypical hemolytic uraemic syndrome. We
announced the start of a Phase 3 program in Myasthenia Gravis. And so we're very excited
another medicine that has LoE protection well into the 2030s, and then as well, primarily treating
younger patients, not a medicine that's exposed to the medicare part DIRA. So another medicine
that we have, we think that can really drive her growth well into the 2030s across a broad range
of rare diseases.
So, moving to the next slide. So in closing, before handing it over to Harry, we expect to continue
our innovation momentum in half two. We had 10 hubs [ph] in Phase 3 readouts in -- as you all
know, in 2023. Really this year is about filing and really making sure that we get these medicines
ready to launch. But we are excited as well about a next wave of medicines. One thing we did
want to note is we have shifted our Remibrutinib CSU filing slightly as we do need to make a few
CMC adjustments. But as a reminder, Remibrutinib showed biologic-like efficacy in the control of
CSU, a very good safety profile. So we're excited to get that medicine submitted in 2025 and
then out to launch. We do, of course, also expect a steady stream of readouts as well in '25, '26,
which we'll profile in upcoming meetings.
So with that, let me hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Vas. Good morning and good afternoon, everybody. I'll now walk you through,
as always, through our financials of the second quarter and the first half. And my comments will
always refer to growth rates and constant currencies unless otherwise stated. I will also be
referring to continued operations that will be still remainder of this year given the Sandoz spin in
October last year. And as you see and have seen already, we had a very strong first half of the
year and continued momentum of our quarter one start into Q2.
So on Slide 19. Now Q2 sales grew 11%. Core operating income was up 19%. Core EPS was $1.97
growing 21%. Free cash flow was $4.6 billion very strong also 40% up in US dollars. For the first
half, which you see on the right side, again, 11% plus -- the same 11% growth and core operating
up 21% as Q1 was a bit higher than Q2, but both quarters super strong. And our core margin on
the half year always better with longer periods, not only one quarter up to 39% and up 310 basis
points, demonstrating clearly our continued progress towards achieving our midterm margin
guidance of 40% plus by 2027. Core EPS $3.77 up 22% and free cash flow almost up to $7 billion,
up 11%. So clearly these numbers reflect also the full effect of our pure play pharma company and
our transformation for growth with a very strong worldwide execution.
So -- and turning to Slide number 20. I think most importantly to understand that we have our
continued strong underlying growth dynamics will really continue. We expect that also for the
second half. Usually, we do not provide quarterly guidance, but this time it may be helpful as you
model the remainder of the year. So with respect to quarterly phasing, I want to remind you that
last year Q3 and those were, we had a couple of one-time effects which are not super significant,
but likely, we see in quarter three because of this two points of one-time effect, more high
single-digit growth, so still very strong. But you may remember we had a one-time revenue
deduction true-up of Kesimpta in Europe and then we also had some Sandoz inventory buildup
ahead of the spin, I mentioned this quarter three last year, but some of you may not remember
that as you cover so many companies. And these two items add up to two percentage points ofAnd then, of course, there's a bit of an effect on core operating income, usually 2 to 3 times of
the top line points. But again, underlying is exactly what we have seen roughly so far. And then in
Q4, it really depends on how did the two potential generics come in, Sandoz (inaudible) and
Tasigna. And if they don't come in, I would expect us to be at the high end of the guidance both
for that quarter as well as for the year. So I hope that helps you a bit with the quality [ph] phasing
and again, usually don't do this, but I think this is warranting also as we increase the guidance for
the year on the bottom line. At the same time, we had this quarter through a base effect last
year.
Now moving on to Slide 21 for the full year guidance. We continue to expect sales growth to be in
the high single-digit to low double-digit. However, the strong momentum you're seeing in the
business, together with continued productivity results gives us the confidence to upgrade our
bottom-line guidance. We now expect core operating income to grow in the range of mid to high
teens from prior double-digit to mid-teens. Now, as I mentioned before, underpinning our
guidance are the assumptions that no Entresto or no Promacta generics would launch in US in
2024. To complete the full year guidance, please note that we expect the core net financial
expenses to be around $700 million and our core tax rate to be around 16.2%.
On Slide 22, just a little reminder that we remain committed, of course, to our shareholder-
friendly capital allocation strategy to invest in the business while also returning attractive capital to
our shareholders in the first half of the year. In addition to investing in our internal R&D engine, we
also brought in external innovation via bolt-on M&A and BD&L deals particularly to strengthen our
pipeline in oncology as well as our RLT platform. In terms of returning capital to shareholders, we
paid out $7.6 billion in dividends in the first half, and we also continue our up to $15 billion share
buyback, which has approximately $10 billion left to be executed by the end of 2025.
Now onto my final slide around currencies. As always, currencies fluctuate and we always outline
that. And in Q2, FX had a negative 2% point impact on both net sales and core operating income
on our results. And if mid-July rates would prevail for the remainder of 2024, we would expect
the full-year currency impact to be negative 1 to 2 percentage points on net sales and negative 3
percentage points on core operating income. And as a reminder, the estimated impact of
exchange rates in our results are always provided mid month on our website. Back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Harry. So, before taking your questions, just to briefly summarize. Continued
momentum in quarter two, with sales up 11%, core operating margin approaching 40%. We see
strong commercial execution, which I think demonstrates our ability to drive our in-market brand
medicines, drive our growth brands, drive new launches. This supports our bottom line guidance
raise for full year 2024.
Our pipeline continues to advance with the FDA submissions of Scemblix in the first line,
Atrasentan IgAN, our updated Kisqali in early breast cancer, and we're on track to achieve our
midterm guidance. 5% constant currency sales growth through 2028 CAGR and a 40% core
operating margin by 2027. So we think a really great quarter for the company and we look
forward to continuing to drive strong performance through the remainder of this year.
So with that, we can open the line for questions. And as Sloan mentioned, please, one question
per analyst, and then we'll come back through the list again. Thank you.
Questions And Answers
OperatorThank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take your first question. And the question comes
from the line of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, thank you so much for taking my question. I just wanted to ask for a bit more context, just on
the NATALEE delay of the PDUFA in the United States. Can you confirm that this was very specific
to the manufacturing issue and that the FDA did not ask for any additional information with regard
to any of the subgroups or any additional information from the clinical trials? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Emily. So this was only related to the CMC issue. We've already initiated label
discussions with the FDA. We submitted some additional data to support the provision to the
CMC package. With that, we had the standard, a three month extension because we had
submitted that additional data, so that extends the PDUFA out by three months. We believe now
we're well on track, having finalized the submission of that data for an approval inside of Q3. Next
question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick question on Cosentyx and
the new indication in HS. Could you give us some color on how you see the HS opportunity going
forward? Has it seen that you are gaining new patients, or you have a new treatment more
potent the existing one, but there will be also new entrants in the coming years. So some color
on this HS market opportunity would be great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Florent. As you know, historically only anti TNFs at ianalumab was the only medicine
available -- biologic medicine available for these patients. And so I think the market had not
grown to its full potential. I mean, HS is a relatively prevalent dermatological disease. I think it's
second most prevalent after psoriasis. So something that -- or second or third most prevalent
after psoriasis. So I think it's something that's really a big unmet need. So I would expect there to
be a significant expansion in the market as more entrants come in. And we continue to believe
that Cosentyx and HS alone, (Technical Difficulty) a billion-dollar medicine. So we're very optimistic
on Cosentyx.
Outlook in HS, even with other entrants coming in, simply because there is so much unmet need.
Most patients are not on biologics, or many of these patients have dropped out of the system
and are not receiving care at all. Now that physicians know there are safe options available, we
believe more and more patients will be brought in. We see that broad-based globally. So I
mentioned as well, we see strong HS uptake for Cosentyx in the US, as well as in EU and
international markets. So we think it could be an attractive market in the long run. And we also
have a pipeline, we're developing as future agents to follow on for Cosentyx in HS now in Phase
2 studies, but over -- as it matures, we're excited about can we actually address HS with even
higher efficacy medicines over time.Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator? Thank you, Florent.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question. The pipeline question on ianalumab which you pulled for the
readout in Sjogren's 2025. So just the drivers for that confidence on probability of success. And
there's been a number of competitor updates in that space recently. So just perhaps you could
refresh us with your thoughts on the magnitude of ESSDAI improvement you're hoping to show,
and indeed, whether you still consider that to be the right and definitive endpoint. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Emmanuel. Absolutely, we saw a very fast enrollment, higher -- faster than
expected enrollment for ianalumab in Sjogren. So we have pulled forward that readout. As you
know, Sjogren's again a relatively prevalent rheumatological disease without really any great --
good treatment options. The Phase 2 data for ianalumab in Sjogren showed -- really, the first time
that you could have a significant improvement in ESSDAI as well as other patient report
outcomes. So obviously we won't quantitate the magnitudes of ESSDAI benefits. But if we can
repeat what we saw in Phase 2b, we think that would be really a compelling option. Also, a unique
mechanism of action. Arvinas allows you to deplete B-cell in multiple compartments, which we
think will be important for a disease like Sjogren's, which impacts multiple different tissues.
I think what will be important, in addition to ESSDAI, is patient-reported outcomes, meaning
salivary gland function, dry eye, many of these things. These areas are what patients would like to
see improve. And if we can demonstrate, in addition to the composite endpoint, PROs [ph] that
show important benefits for these patients, we think this could be an exciting opportunity.
Overall, we think ianalumab is a multibillion-dollar opportunity. In combination with Sjogren's, we
have multiple other Phase 3 programs ongoing in three separate -- four separate hematological
indications where we expect readouts in 2027. We also take ianalumab into other immunology
indications as well. So this is an opportunity for us to really build a significant medicine. And as a
reminder as well, this medicine has protection into the mid to late 2030s. Thank you. Next
question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. I was going to stick on pipeline events in 2025 on
pelacarsen, probably your next multiboot [ph] was to read out. Could you just remind us whatHORIZON trial? And then can you talk about barriers to uptake of LP(a) targeting agents?
Obviously, PCSK9 uptake has been disappointing for investors, partly attributed to need for
injections and costs. I'm just wondering if those barriers are going to also limit LP(a) targeting
agents, or is the lack of available alternatives for patients with elevated LP(a) those barriers are
less significant. So if you could just talk about that, that would be great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Richard. So, first, in terms of the study design, the way we design the
pelacarsen study was to look at two different levels of LP(a). So, first, the top quartile -- at the top
quartile of LP(a) levels, and then a separate analysis, still part of the primary endpoint, which
allows us to take a second look at the top decile of patients in terms of their level of LP(a). And
that was based on large-scale epidemiologic studies on how risk evolves from different quartiles
and deciles of patients with elevated LP(a).
So our hope is to show us both of those analysis and our goal will be to show greater than 20%
CVRR. But, of course, we have aspirations to get even higher. And I think if we can show even
higher levels, that would certainly create a lot of motivation in physicians to make sure these
patients are tested.
One of the things we've learned, I think, through our various cardiovascular launches, is, in this
day and age, to take more of a specialty cardiology mindset and how we think about launching
these medicines. So rather than trying to do broad-based LP(a) testing for patients across large
populations, to actually look very systematically looking at large scale data sets and really
targeting the groups ethnicities that have the highest risk of elevated LP(a), and try to promote
high levels of testing within those patient populations.
And alongside that, to target specialty groups, which have a higher propensity to want to test and
treat. So those are, of course, cardiovascular specialty groups. But also, when you think about
interventional cardiology, I mean, there are certain specialty groups we're learning that have a
higher propensity to look for these biomarkers and then treat in order to avoid the recurrence of
events, also, given the push towards healthcare quality around the world. So we're trying to take
a very targeted approach in how we think about our LP(a) launch. And in the future as well, in
cardiovascular launches in general, take a more specialty mindset, which will allow us to target to
the right patients and the right physicians with better resource allocation and hopefully drive
more rapid uptake in the future. Thank you, Richard.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, thanks for taking my questions. Just want to come back to NATALEE, actually. Can you just
clarify, you still think there's no manufacturing site inspection needed for the new process? I think
you said on Q1, you didn't expect to see one. I assume you'd actually know by now. And just,
again, that you remain confident that there is no ADCOM coming and confidence in the broadlabel. I know there's some discussion in the market about the node-negative patient population
and whether that's approvable or not. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. Again, based on the label discussions that we have, we're confident in the
broad label and there is no manufacturing inspection. I mean, all of the changes we've made are
all related to product handling. And so I think -- and some of the suppliers in the system, so
there's no inspections. This is just providing stability data, which we're always obligated to do
when we make changes once we finish -- provide that stability data and have adequate stability
data, the FDA takes their decision. So it's really a topic of finalizing that review of our stability data
from an FDA standpoint. But we (technical difficulty) in the broad label no other inspections. And
we're gearing up for a launch in late Q3. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `James Quigley, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `James Quigley, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got one on Pluvicto. So could you walk us through
some of the competitive dynamics we're seeing in the US? I mean, you mentioned some of the
centers had 30% share. So what is the consideration there in terms of driving the increase in
share in those centers? And then thinking also about the community centers, where are you in
terms of the development of the community centers and Pluvicto and the offering there? And
when you speak to docs, physicians in those centers, how are they thinking about Pluvicto, which
is relatively more complicated than the androgen receptor inhibitors, which are overall simple and
seems to be launching quite strongly as well? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, James. When you look at the dynamics on Pluvicto, so we have, let's say roughly
425 centers, and about a third of those centers we were really well established, in the VISION
population, we see 90% market share. So really high levels of share of the VISION patients. Then
we have another group of centers which are still earlier on in their evolution, we see about 50%
share. Our goal is to get them to 90%.
The last third of centers are much more in the community, and here the dynamics are where we
have to just do more work. A lot of it is education. So physicians understand, rather than cycling
through -- in the case of the VISION population, cycling through chemo and perhaps doing extra
rounds of chemo, better to refer and have the patients receive Pluvicto, given the compelling
results that we saw in the VISION study. So in order to motivate that, we're doing a few things, as
I mentioned, another field for us to get out there to educate our community oncology, community
urology, and as well as to strengthen that referral base. Second, DTC, to make sure patients
understand in the community that there is this option, so rather than cycling through chemo.
Earlier on, where we know the earlier patients get Pluvicto, the better the outcomes to try to
motivate that. And I think if we can unlock that segment over the course of the coming months,
we can continue to drive Pluvicto in the VISION population to the multi-billion or roughly $2 billion
potential we think there is. And that includes globally. I would say we're seeing very robust uptake
in Germany. And over time, we expect robust uptake in other European markets.Now, all of that is important for the current indication, but even more important, as we move to
PSMAfore, where we have three times the patient population. And there again, it will be really
important to, over time, build up confidence in the community to be able -- outside of the
community in medical centers, to provide radioligand therapy, not only for Pluvicto, but our whole
portfolio of radioligand therapies that we're currently developing. So we're confident we're going
to get there step-by-step, but it will take time.
I think things like the patient ready dose will help, I think also enabling, we have a whole team that
enables centers to be able to deploy radioligand therapy in their clinics, which will allow them to
hopefully not have to refer out, but actually provide RLT even within their centers, in their own
establishments, which also would be, I think, really, really attractive. So it's all on track, in our view,
to build this into a major opportunity.
And I would also want to take the note -- take a moment to reflect that in RLT, we have a number
of things still continuing to develop. We are working on Lutathera in a small cell lung cancer MgB
[ph] and glioblastoma both of those are in Phase 2b studies. We, in addition, have the clinical
stage programs with anti-integrin, anti-bombicin [ph] and anti-SAP. We're advancing now into a
clinic, a program we're very excited about, a HER2 RLT, where we hope to be able to
demonstrate that RLT can provide a compelling safety profile versus current HER2 ADCs. And as
well now with the recent acquisition of Mariana Oncology, moving rapidly to the clinic, additional
RLT programs, some of which taking on ADC targets that are established, some of them taking
novel targets, which we think could only be used using RLT.
So that's the level of confidence and investment we have in RLT for the long run. And we look
forward now to getting out into the community and over time, establishing this as something
that's part of routine cancer care in the US and around the world. Next question, operator?
Q - `James Quigley, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Perfect. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah, thank you very much for taking my question. Vas, your revenue aspiration is for mid single
digit growth out to 2030, and that on a 2024 base is about $66 billion. And when we look at
consensus, it's about $53 billion at the moment before the results that were very strong today. So
about a $13 billion gap. So which growth drivers, in your opinion, does consensus
underappreciate? And what are the key readouts and progress points that we should look out
for, which could close the disconnect between expectations and your aspirations?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Mark. So, obviously, it's often the case that our aspirations are ahead of consensus.
The first thing I'd say is, if you look back in 2017, what we said, we delivered (technical difficulty)
basis we were a $35 billion innovative medicines company, and this year we'll approach a $50billion innovative medicine company. So I think we generally have delivered against what we said
we were going to do. So when you look at the consensus, as you get further out and as you
know, fewer and fewer analysts as you get far -- farther into the future, there are a few brands
that I think are high in our mind. I mean, of course, Kisqali, Pluvicto, Leqvio, Iptacopan, all we
believe we can drive higher than currently what's out there within the consensus figures. And
depending on the brand, there's different amounts of variability.
Certainly, Scemblix with $3 billion-plus potential, but also with the fact that historically imatinib
achieved $4.4 billion globally. We still think there's an opportunity for that medicine's full potential
to be appreciated, let's say. And then when you look at remibrutinib, you look at VAY, you also
have here medicines that are in late-stage development, they'll be launching relatively soon, that
we think have the potential to also close a significant portion of the gap. So that alone, that
portfolio of medicines, all of which have pretty long timelines ahead of them, I think can really
help us, hopefully, over time, close that gap in the early 2030s. But I think then what is really on us
now is to show that the next wave of medicines that we have coming, that are going to be
compelling. So for us, medicines like pelacarsen, which we've already discussed on the call. We
have novel hypertension and heart failure agent XXB that we'll be reading out relatively shortly in
hypertension and soon in heart failure. As I mentioned, a very broad portfolio of RLTs in cancer.
And if any one of those were to hit, they could be a very significant medicine. And we're very
uniquely positioned there, given the scale, size, and our ability to do both actinium and lutetium.
Now, taking upon that, we also not yet in numbers, which is understandable. We continue to have
conviction around immune reset. We think between YTB and some of our other programs in
immunology, this is a large multibillion-dollar opportunity, which is also difficult for competitors to
come into, given the scale that we and only a few other competitors have within cell therapy.
And then lastly, we have obviously emerging assets within the siRNA space as well that we're
hoping to provide updates on in the coming period. So a combination of existing assets you all
have seen, know, and we'll provide more and more data and provide, as you see with our
performance today, conviction that they have higher peak sales potential. Second is assets that
we hope we'll read out and get approved in the next few years with a significant multibillion-dollar
potential, and then a very broad early-stage pipeline in our core therapeutic areas, in our core
technology areas, which I think, again, will prove out over time. We look forward to the challenge,
but we're very confident that we'll be able to deliver against the goals we set out, as we've done
over the last seven years.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Maybe a question on pelabresib. Could you probably give us an
update on your thinking and around the filing, what extra data do you need to file with theproduct? And what sort of conversations you are having with the regulators around that one?
Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Richard. So we're still in the midst of completing the acquisition under German
takeover Laws. So I think limited things I can say at this point, but what I can say is we are awaiting
48-week follow-up data, which I think will give us a stronger sense of the overall profile of
pelabresib. We've had good discussions with both the EU and the FDA to get that data. We'll
have a better understanding of what will be required in each geography to ultimately bring the
medicine forward for patients with myelofibrosis. So we remain excited about it, but we -- I think
we still need to get the data to finalize the exact filing plans that we have in the different
geographies.
Alongside that, the EZH1/2 inhibitor we also acquired in the deal is something we're rapidly
assessing. Given its profile potential, best in class profile to take forward in prostate cancer,
potentially another cancer. So that's something where, as we now go through the process of
finalizing the acquisition, also to take that EZH1/2, that would of course help us to round out our
overall portfolio in prostate. We have Pluvicto, we have follow-on actinium agents. We recently did
a deal for -- with Arvinas for an AR degrader and then to add on an anomaly [ph] agent like an
EZH1/2 could help us, I think, really ensure that we have leadership or amongst the leaders in
prostate cancer for the long run. Thanks, Richard.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I want to just return to Pluvicto, if I can, please. Just to
understand, because you talk about some of the barriers in terms of gaining share in some of the
sites. But I'm curious just with regards to the referral pathway and what you're seeing there.
Because I guess if you're starting DTC, it would suggest that you've got a high degree of
confidence that some of the patients, particularly in the community, can then get to specialist
centers for the vision indication. So I guess you can talk a little bit about your confidence in that
referral pathway of being able to get these patients once they then see DTC, perhaps in the
wider community, into centers able to administer.
And equally then the phase dose you're talking about with the patient ready dose, is that at the
moment, do you think a limitation for the VISION population or is that very much geared towards
the PSMAfore future use, just to understand that. And if I can just ask for Germany, for Pluvicto just
quickly, is this -- is there a challenge in Europe from still from the sort of pay hospital, if you like,
pharmacy created RLTs or are you able to overcome that, do you think, with Pluvicto?All very good questions, Peter. So first on the referral pathways, we do feel like we're making
headway into the referral pathways. But I think as you get further into the community, there is a
first tendency among oncologists to cycle through chemo and then potentially even cycle back to
ARPI before going to a drug like Pluvicto, simply because of lack of familiarity. As we move away
from specialist centers where we see very high shares of Pluvicto, we now need to educate and
get more comfort with making that referrals. We think part of that is physician education, hence
the new sales force, but part of it as well as patient activation, so that patients and caregivers can
ask as cycles of chemo are completed, the next step, hopefully, will then be Pluvicto and then the
referrals go out.
But I think alongside that as well, is continuing to also expand the capacity of community oncology
centers to provide RLT without having to make a referral. I think an important -- really also for the
long run, for radioligand therapy, it's something important for us to establish. Those things don't
happen quickly. But I think if you go back in history looking at things like even when chemo was
introduced, but other technologies as well, you can eventually get there step by step. So that's
very much what we see at the moment, and that's why we're making these additional
investments to get to that next phase of growth for Pluvicto in the US.
Now we're on the patient-ready dose. The patient-ready dose, in my mind, has two opportunities
for us. So first, within centers that are at very high utilization rates, there is an interest to actually
give even more patients Lutathera and first-line neuroendocrine tumors -- for a medium and high-
risk first-line neuroendocrine tumors. And then also to give even more patients Pluvicto. Maybe if
they're at 50%, 60% or 90%, maybe they could even do more. And so by reducing the time, the
chair time, and the prep time for a given patient, you expand the capacity of those centers. So it's
something we've been working on for some time. And then that will become even more
important as we get to PSMAfore and we triple the number of patients within those centers. We
want to be able to have that capacity for them to be able to treat more and more patients. And
of course, chair time is what eventually could become a constraint. So we want to get ahead of
that with the patient-ready dose.
Now. Lastly, with respect to Germany, we've achieved attractive pricing in Germany. We see very
strong uptake in the initial days, and we're seeing shares to the extent we can get the data,
we're slowly but surely 80%, 90% share versus the so-called home brews or pharmacy-
developed RLTs. So we feel confident now, with reimbursement in place, that will now become
the real only option for patients desiring PSMA RLT therapy in Germany. So we're excited about
the German opportunity.
I would say as well, China, I've recently visited RLT centers in Shanghai. There is a lot of interest in
China, and you've seen us be very successful in launches, whether it's Cosentyx, Entresto, Leqvio
in China. And so the opportunity there is significant (technical difficulty) to file in China in the
second half of this year. We've done a groundbreaking for a new manufacturing site in China. And
then lastly in Japan as well, a lot of interest in RLT. So I think the Asian markets as well will give us
a boost for RLT and Pluvicto in the medium term. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Verdult, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Peter Verdult, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. It's `Peter Verdult, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Can we go big picture, please, Vas on the IRA? Just what's
the latest you're hearing from your context about how the initial price negotiation process ispelacarsen in mind, whether there have been any developments that give you increased
confidence, you can get oligonucleotides to be given the same 13-year exclusivity period as
biologics? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Peter. So, first we'd say it's not a negotiation, it's government price setting. It's not a
situation where companies have the opportunity to, in effect, walk away from the prices that are
set by government. I'd also say, while in the short term this might be manageable on our first set
of drugs, in the long run, this policy is really not good for innovation, good for patients in the
United States. And if companies are managing, it's managing by shifting away from small
molecule medicines for (technical difficulty) other therapies and neurological diseases, maybe
they can only be treated by small molecules. So I think it's very important to say the policy is not a
good one. It's bad for American patients, bad for innovation, and sincerely hope that it gets
corrected.
Now, in terms of our mid-term guidance we factored in, and our mid-single-digit guidance into
the 2030s. We factored in IRA. And so we manage it through a combination of the kinds of
medicines we develop the indication we go after, et cetera, and that's how we're approaching it.
Can't comment on the current price settings approach that CMS is taking right now. Those prices
will obviously come out for Entresto in September. But I think right now our focus is very much still
to shift the policy. There are a few bills in play. There is a bill that is currently being discussed to.
As you rightfully mentioned, correct, genetically targeted therapies. Bipartisan support has
passed through multiple committees. So we continue to be hopeful that ASOs, siRNAs, and
related technologies will move from 9 to 13.
Another bill that is being discussed is within the rare disease framework to move off of a single
rare disease to multiple rare disease drugs to have the same benefits as if you're in a single rare
disease. So if you take a case study like Scemblix, our ability to develop Scemblix beyond CML
and another rare cancer is limited because of the IRA's policy. And maybe it would make sense to
actually develop it in another cancer type, but difficult to do given the IRA policy. So I think that's a
second bill out there.
And then third, there's the full correction of 9 to 13. So I think when I'm on the hill, I have good
conversations. I think there's a broad recognition that there needs to be something done
because this was an unintended consequence of poorly drafted legislation. But how that actually
transpires, given that we're in a political cycle, I think we'll have to see in 2025 and beyond.
Q - `Peter Verdult, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `Hi. Yes, `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg with Berenberg. Just one quick question from me on Remibrutinib, the
delay of the filing in CSU into next year, as you referenced, a few CMC adjustments. I wonder if
you could provide a little more detail on that, what's required and how long the delay is likely to
be? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely, Kerry. So, in the process of finalizing our manufacturing process, we've
determined that a single step in the process, called nanomilling, for those who are interested,
need some adjustments in terms of time and temperature to make sure that the product profile
is optimal. So we're making those adjustments. And once we make those adjustments, as was
the case with Kisqali, when we made those adjustments, we have to generate stability data. And
so the time to generate the stability data then drives the timeline for the filing. We're certainly
hopeful that we can get that stability package put together ASAP and then get the filing because
we were ready to go in the filing. And unfortunately, (technical difficulty) on this at a relatively late
stage.
So our hope is to file in the earlier part of next year and then get an approval relatively quickly
thereafter. We certainly have many PRVs in hand. We have not determined yet which ones we'll
use, but we certainly have the capacity to use PRVs. So we hope to be able to close the gap then
and make remibrutinib available for patients in the US and then eventually around the world. Next
question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Hello, thanks so much for the question. So, Vas, the question is really for you. Strategically, as you
look at the growth opportunities in the industry and across the industry, oncology, immunology,
and now cardiovascular metabolic disease with obesity are all core therapeutic areas. One area
that Novartis is not currently present in is obesity. You've been in a position to think strategically
and act strategically in immuno-oncology, perhaps with disappointment. Just interested to get
your thoughts on the opportunity for a late entry into the obesity market and how Novartis could
potentially or would potentially make sense of that strategically, whether with existing assets or
only as a completely novel approach or novel mechanism moving forward. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Seamus, for the question. As you can imagine, it's something we put a lot of
thought into and have looked at many of the opportunities that are out there. To address obesity,
which clearly has the opportunity to have a significant health impact, not only on obesity but many
related conditions that we're continuing to see in the data. Our view is, with the current GLP, GIP,
GIPR oral injectable class of medicines, they're going to be very well served by the two leading
incumbents who are doing extremely well in the market and are rapidly developing follow-on
agents.
And so to come in with fast follower (technical difficulty) medicines even with modestly
differentiated profiles, will be difficult, because when those medicines come forward at the end
of the decade, you will have substantial rebate walls, you will have substantial portfolio blocks in
place. And so very difficult to enter with just another of something that's relatively similar towhat's already out there. You can imagine massive amounts of free drug floating around simply
because of the size of the rebates that would be out there towards the end of the decade. So
we choose not to participate in that. And so far we might need one of those assets as a
combination asset for our own portfolio, but rather, our core focus is thinking about next
generation medicines to address obesity or related conditions in cardiovascular health. That
includes much more long-acting agents, either through biologics or siRNAs. That involves no
mechanisms of action, all preclinical, but the ones that we're exploring, either that can provide
dosing advantages, tolerability advantages, or the ability for muscle sparing. There could be
centrally acting mechanisms that are not necessarily targeting directly the pancreas or
orthogonally the central pathways, but actually directly the central pathways.
So those are all things we're working on, but we stick by our conviction to stay disciplined. We had
the experience of coming late into PD1 inhibitors and immuno-oncology with lots of capital spent.
In the end, probably not well spent. Rather say where can we bring something really unique
forward, gives us a unique position, not only from a physician-patient standpoint, but in the US
what will matter immensely, and we know this, launching many cardiovascular medicines, is you
need a compelling proposition for payers. And coming in late with another one of the orals or
injectable GLP, GIPs, we think is not a prudent approach for us as a company. Rather look for next
breakthroughs or breakthroughs in other areas and other areas of medicine where that are
underserved. There's enough other areas of medicine that are underserved that we think there's
plenty of opportunity for us to drive dynamic growth in those areas. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Rajesh Kumar, Analyst, HSBC from HSBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, Analyst, HSBC `
Hi, good afternoon. Just on capital allocation. You have maintained a very capital-disciplined
approach in terms of what sort of valuations you are paying for M&A, as well as what sort of
returns you are looking at. When you are in competitive situations, can you give us some color if
your competitors are behaving in a similar way? And if they are not, what are the tools you have
to work around that?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Rajesh. So I think, obviously, don't want to comment on specific competitors, but I'd
say there's variability in terms of capital discipline. And I think now seven years in the role, I've
learned the value in playing the long game, staying disciplined, not overstretching, in the end,
information asymmetry is a huge disadvantage whenever you do external deals. So you have to
be prudent. You've seen us shift to, again, mostly deals, sub-billion, and if anything, a handful of
larger bolt-on deals and try to stay disciplined against our financial measures.
And if we are outbid and it's not within our envelope, we just walk away and we're okay with that.
There'll be other opportunities that come and then rather use our capital to buy back our own
shares, as we're doing in a disciplined way. We're confident in our growth profile. As Harry
mentioned, we have still $10 billion in our ongoing buyback program. But buybacks are part of the
capital allocation principles of Novartis, return capital to shareholders through dividends and
buybacks, and then prudent M&A, where we see the opportunity to build one of our TAS [ph] or
one of our technology platforms.
The reality is more and more that happens earlier. So more and more deals that are earlier on
the smaller side, because there is an opportunity for where you have a differentiated view versusyour competitors, you may have a different view on the science or different expertise which
allows you then to take prudent bets. We, of course, always look at all opportunities, and if
there's something we think we can really generate significant value and we generate the returns
that we would expect from a deal, we'll of course, go after it. But on bidding wars, we're not. I
think the company that wins like big bidding wars or companies are going to pay well beyond at
least what we would say the valuation of the target asset is. Thanks for the question. Next
question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Jo Walton, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. My question comes back to Pluvicto, if I could. And just to look at the number of cycles
that a patient is actually taking, I know the maximum is six. If you could tell us what you think the
level is today, I think it is quite a bit below six. And how we should be thinking about that going
forward into new indications. Do you think you are going to be able to expand the number of
cycles? Many thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think -- Jo, thanks for the question. So right now, we're at three to four cycles per patient,
which is really because especially in more the community setting, we're seeing referrals that are
too late. And we would really like to push the referral rate earlier. I think an earlier indication -- and
so in effect, and sadly, the patient might demise or ultimately progress because of the very latest
nature of the disease. So I think rather when we get to the earlier line, this will be less of an issue,
people will complete their sick cycle. We can have this situation where patients have been kept
on chemo probably too long, they can only tolerate three cycles before ultimately succumbing to
their cancer.
And so that's something -- another benefit, I think, as we move into the PSMAfore population and
the hormone-sensitive population, in these healthier populations, we would expect the full six
cycles, which should also give us a lift.
So when you think from a patient volume standpoint on Pluvicto and VISION, we're actually doing
pretty well. It's just, I think we just need to get those referrals earlier and get the referrals deeper
in the community, and that will get us, I think, back on track to that $2 billion goal globally on the
VISION population, and then well on track as well for the much bigger aspirations we have for the
full range of indications.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead.Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi. If I could come back to IRA, there's no formal gag order preventing drug companies from
talking about price negotiations that are ongoing. But CMS still seems to be out there telling all
the companies to basically keep quiet about it, and all the companies are obliging. And I'm trying
to figure out why one could read into this that CMS doesn't want companies saying, oh, it's no big
deal, we can manage it, because that would take away from a later announcement by them
about the big price concessions that they've been able to achieve. So can you kind of share your
thoughts on that one aspect of IRA? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I know -- I don't know if I have -- I don't have much insights on that, Tim, unfortunately. But
what I can say is that these are ongoing discussions. The price setting we continue not to call it a
negotiation. The price setting process is one that has multiple rounds. And I think often in these
situations, there's no benefit for us to particularly go public as we continue to try to finalize the
discussions and take it from there. I think the reality is, in this initial round, from my two sense, I
can't speak for CMS, but in this initial round, you have a set of medicines that are close to --
relatively close to LoE. And because of that, companies have factored in generic entries within a
certain period of time.
And so probably many companies would say this is all manageable because it's relatively short
term. When you start getting hundreds of drugs on this list and you have drugs that are earlier in
their life cycle in areas where you need more time to actually generate the peak sales and the
return, I mean, this compounds and gets uglier and uglier. So I think it's just important for all of us
to keep pushing the government to fix the legislation. 13 years, 15 years is manageable. Nine
years for a small molecule, depending on the indication or the ability to go into multiple
indications or multiple cancer types, is a challenge. And the way the industry will manage it is, we'll
just shift away for small molecule drugs for the elderly, which means patients with oncology
conditions and neuroscience conditions and certain cardiovascular conditions will suffer. And I think
that's the message that policymakers need to hear.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Last question -- Thank you, Tim. Last question, I think, is from Graham. Graham?
Operator
Your line is now open, Graham.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great, thank you. Just a follow up on Kesimpta. Obviously, you had a very strong quarter there.
Just wondered if you think you might need to revisit your peak guide there. And if so, when? And
if you can just help us understand how far penetrated do you think you are into peak opportunity
in the US and the rest of the world, which now seems to be driving almost as much of the growth
as the US.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Good question, Graham. I think area of internal debate as to how big could Kesimpta be.
Certainly just to give you some numbers, in the US (technical difficulty) B-cell share of all patients
in RRMS. So there's plenty of room to run. Most of that at the expense of older medicines, the so-
called Brace, as you know well. So plenty of room to create larger -- basically, the market size for
B-cell inhibition in MS could double in the United States as physicians get more and more
comfortable with B-cell inhibitors. Similarly, we see similar dynamics in Europe, obviously in Asia,
MS is less of a topic. So again, an opportunity for further expansion. So we're certainly looking at
the peak sales potential for Kesimpta. And I think when we're in a place where we can provide
more precise guidance, we certainly will.
I think one area, of course, we have to watch is the BTK inhibitors. But as you know, the data has
not been great so far. Remibrutinib is continuing on track in MS, but if anything, we now view the
BTK inhibitors as perhaps supportive, but not being able to replace the B-cell monoclonal
antibodies, which also gives tailwinds to Kesimpta's long-term potential as well. Thank you,
Graham.
So I think that's everything for today. So thank you all very, very much for the call. We look forward
to providing you another update in Q3 and then also looking forward to seeing you all and meet
the management in November. So thank you again.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.