Q3 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations
Officer and Senior Vice President. Please go ahead, ma'am.
`Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President `
Good morning, and welcome to Pfizer's earnings call. I'm `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President, Chief Investor
Relations Officer. On behalf of the Pfizer team, thank you for joining us. This call is being made
available via audio webcast at pfizer.com. Earlier this morning, we released our results for the
third quarter of 2024 via a press release that is available on our website at pfizer.com.
I'm joined today by Dr. `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and CEO; and `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO. Albert
and Dave have some prepared remarks and we will then open the call for questions. Members ofour leadership team will be available for the Q&A session, including Dr. `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, who
recently joined Pfizer as EVP and Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer.
Before we get started, I want to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements
and discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. I encourage you to read the disclaimers in
our slide presentation, the press release we issued this morning and the disclosures in our SEC
filings, which are all available on the IR website on pfizer.com. Forward-looking statements on the
call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties speak only as of the call's original date, and
we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Francesca. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today.
Our team continues to execute and we are pleased to report another quarter of strong
performance. We are guided by our purpose of delivering breakthroughs that change patients;
lives' and I'm proud that we reached more than 270 million patients with our medicines and
vaccines through the first nine months of 2024. The focus on execution excellence is starting to
deliver results with market share gains in the US and International, as well as robust growth in
revenues and EPS. As a result, we are raising guidance ranges and for our full year 2024 total
revenue and Adjusted diluted earnings per share.
In January, we presented the five key priorities that would guide Pfizer during our year of
execution. Today, you will hear how we advanced our business in the third quarter with each of
these strategic priorities. I'll focus on highlights showing our progress with the first three. Dave will
discuss our continued work to reduce our cost base, expand our margins and strategically deploy
our capital. Then we will review our financial performance during the quarter and explain why we
believe we are well positioned to deliver on our financial commitments and create long-term
value for shareholders and then we will take questions.
So with that, I'll turn to our performance against our priorities during the quarter. Stated simply,
Oncology is having a great year and delivered another quarter of strong performance with 31%
year-over-year operational growth resulting from solid demand across our product portfolio that
includes legacy Seagen and legacy Pfizer products. We set a goal to achieve world class oncology
leadership. In the US, we are already the third largest biopharma company in oncology by
revenue through the first half of 2024 and we are proud of the progress we are making toward
our goal.
Demand continued to increase for Xtandi. The market leader for four types of advanced prostate
cancer grew 28% year-over-year. Talzenna grew by 77% in the quarter versus the same quarter
from a year ago. We're encouraged by the opportunity to further advance the prostate cancer
treatment landscape based on the exciting overall survival data we announced earlier this month
from the Phase-3 TALAPRO study. In the study, Talzenna in combination with Xtandi
demonstrated statistically significant overall survival benefit in patients with metastatic castration-
resistant prostate cancer becoming the first and only such combination to do so.
Driving scientific breakthroughs in genitourinary cancers is one of our key areas of focus in
Oncology. The TALAPRO-2 results show how we continue innovating to improve survival for men
with prostate cancer, which is the second most common cancer in men and the fifth most
common cause of cancer death among men worldwide.We saw continued momentum during the quarter with the ongoing launch of Padcev with
pembrolizumab for patients with advanced metastatic bladder cancer, regardless of their
eligibility to receive cisplatin-based chemotherapy. This combination has quickly become the most
prescribed first-line treatment in the US for locally advanced metastatic urothelial cancer
In thoracic cancer, we achieved 31% operational growth this quarter with Lorbrena, a treatment
for adults with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Following the release of our five
years of CROWN data during the ASCO Annual Meeting, we are observing an acceleration of first
line new patient starts around the world and in particular, in our key markets of the US, China,
Germany and France. Our Braftovi & Mektovi combination also achieved strong year-over-year
growth in the third quarter of 32%, primarily driven by growth in the metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer indication.
And, we continue to be pleased by strong performance with the launch of Elrexfio, which had
about 80% sequential revenue growth over the second quarter of 2024. In the US, we have more
than doubled our new patient starts since January. In Japan, we were able to catch up with
competition and launch as the first-to-market BCMA bispecific, helping to address an unmet
medical need for patients with triple-class exposed multiple myeloma.
We believe Elrexfio has the potential to be a transformative treatment option for people with
multiple myeloma, and we are continuing to advance development with four ongoing
registrational studies in earlier lines of therapy that, if positive and approved, could support
serving a way more expanded patient population.
Now I'll turn to select highlights of how we continue strategically advancing our pipeline. We are
prioritizing opportunities where we have scientific leadership and deep capabilities to address
significant unmet patient needs.
Earlier, I spoke to the strength of our marketed oncology medicines. Our pipeline, however, is
what excites us the most. Lung cancer is the number one cause of cancer-related death around
the world. At the recent ESMO Congress, we shared longer-term follow-up results from the
PHAROS trial evaluating Braftovi & Mektovi in patients with BRAF V600E-mutant metastatic non-
small cell lung cancer, which demonstrated compelling efficacy for patients.
We are also rapidly advancing two next-generation ADC candidates with the potential to make a
significant impact on the more than 300,000 patients with non-small cell lung cancer in the US.
The first is sigvotatug vedotin, which is now in Phase 3 and we are planning additional pivotal trials
in the coming months.
The other is our PDL1V ADC. We are equally encouraged by the updated Phase 1 data we
presented at ESMO for this ADC, and we are planning registration-enabling trials in 2025. Our
genitourinary pipeline is expanding. We are studying another novel ADC, disitamab vedotin, in
two ongoing registration-intent trials in urothelial cancer.
And mevrometostat, our novel EZH2 inhibitor, is another example of the progress we are making
throughout our pipeline. This is being studied as a new potential treatment for men who have
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, and we are enrolling currently patients in two
Phase 3 studies.
Finally, to build on the foundation for Ibrance, we are making progress with development of two
candidates we believe can replace the current backbones of ER positive/HER2 negative breast
cancer care.Atirmociclib, our potential first-in-class CDK4 inhibitor, is enrolling a second-line Phase 3 trial and
we expect to start a first line Phase 3 study by early 2025. And, we expect the first Phase 3 data
in the coming months for vepdegestrant, an estrogen receptor degrader we are co-developing
right now (inaudibe).
Our fourth-generation PCV candidate, now in Phase 2 adults and pediatrics, covers 25 serotypes,
including improved immunogenicity for Serotype 3, very important, which is one of the largest
remaining contributors of disease. We are focused on building on our leadership in the industry
by continuing to expand valency with our fifth-generation candidate which is in pre-clinical
development that covers over 30 serotypes.
In the last several months, we have advanced a potential new vaccine against C. diff, which is
considered an urgent public health threat that lacks any approved vaccines. Leveraging
experience from our previous C. diff program, we have developed a new formulation for a
second-generation candidate. After encouraging Phase 1 data with this new formulation, we have
advanced to our Phase 2 study already.
We are also working to support significant unmet need for about 90 million Americans and 200
million Europeans in areas with high incidence of Lyme disease. VLA15 is a vaccine candidate we
are codeveloping that is intended to protect against the six most prevalent serotypes in North
America and Europe. A Phase 3 trial is underway, and pending positive data and regulatory
approval, VLA15 would become the only vaccine available to help prevent the acute, severe and
long-term health consequences of Lyme disease globally.
Paxlovid is the standard-of-care COVID-19 oral treatment for those at high risk of progressing to
severe disease. We believe, however, there is an opportunity to expand both our therapeutic
impact and market position with our next-generation oral anti-viral candidate, ibuzatrelvir.
In a Phase 2b study, we have demonstrated a robust anti-viral activity at all doses and without the
need for ritonavir boosting. We have addressed the drug-drug interactions and metallic taste
associated with Paxlovid. We expect to start a Phase 3 Study in the coming months.
We are also moving forward with our Phase 3 program in non-segmental vitiligo with ritlecitinib, a
candidate with a differentiated JAK-TEC mechanism developed in-house at Pfizer that has the
potential to be an expansion of indications for Litfulo, which is currently approved in severe
alopecia areata. Vitiligo, like alopecia areata, is an autoimmune disease with high unmet need. It is
the leading cause for skin depigmentation and affects nearly 3 million patients in the US alone.
We are also enthusiastic about our two first-in-class trispecific antibodies with early data
demonstrating excellent 3-in-1 potency. We believe this program has the potential to deliver
improved efficacy in atopic dermatitis with an ongoing Phase 2 study evaluating safety and
efficacy.
We had a Phase 2 readout for ponsegromab, which is another in-house discovered and
developed asset. We are encouraged by the potential for a breakthrough for patients with cancer
cachexia who lack treatment options for this life-threatening wasting condition that currently has
no FDA-approved treatments. The Phase 2 study met its primary endpoint of change from
baseline in body weight compared to placebo across all doses tested, and at the highest dose
evaluated, showed improvements from baseline in appetite, cachexia symptoms, physical activity
and muscle mass.
Based on these positive results, we expect to advance to a registration-enabling study next year.
Our Phase 2 study in patients with heart failure-related cachexia is ongoing.We remain on track with our dose optimization studies for danuglipron, our oral GLP-1 receptor
agonist candidate, and look forward to discussing more about this in early 2025.
In our broader obesity portfolio, we continue to advance our early-stage candidates, including our
oral small molecule GIPR-antagonist, which is advancing to Phase 2 in 2024 this year, and an
additional once-daily oral GLP-1 receptor agonist in Phase 1.
The highlights I've mentioned today across important therapeutic areas show how we have made
meaningful advancements with our pipeline.
As we announced earlier this year, Dr. `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development, Pfizer's Chief Scientific Officer, will depart
from Pfizer after 15 years of leading Pfizer's research efforts. Our process for selecting a
successor is now quite advanced and we look forward to announcing an update soon.
Now I will turn to our commercial performance. Another one of our strategic priorities is
maximizing the performance of our new products. I am pleased that the decisive actions we took
to enhance our commercial organization at the beginning of the year are yielding satisfactory
results.
With Nurtec, we saw 28% total prescription growth and continued leadership in the oral CGRP
class.
Importantly, 85% of primary care clinicians writing CGRP prescriptions for the first time choose
Nurtec, 85%. This shows the progress we are making in primary care, as well as our work with
payers to remove barriers for timely patient access to treatment.
Among our vaccines, we are very pleased with our performance since the launch of Prevnar 20,
which has already achieved 83% market share in pediatric and 97% in adults. With last week's
recommendation by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices to expand adult
pneumococcal vaccination to include all adults aged 50 and older, we believe Prevnar 20 is well-
positioned to serve an expanded population in the United States. Outside of the US, we are
predominantly serving the pediatric market and following the recent first quarter approval in
Japan and EU, we are gaining vaccine technical committee recommendations and market
introductions.
With Abrysvo, we continued improving our US market share position with strong commercial
execution. Our market share of sales to retailers and clinics out of wholesalers has exceeded
50% for the quarter and our market share of shots in arms in the retail setting has increased for
nine consecutive weeks through mid-October, currently reaching 43%. Last week's FDA approval
for Abrysvo for patients 18 through 59 who are at increased risk of lower respiratory tract disease
caused by RSV could help us serve an expanded population over time.
With a rise in COVID-19 infections in the summer and early fall, we've responded to increased
demand for Paxlovid as we launched in the US commercial market at the beginning of the year.
Our better-than-expected growth during the quarter for Paxlovid reflects higher infection rates
and the strong commercial execution of our team.
Our ability to execute effectively includes improving patient access, raising awareness of this
treatment option, expanding use at alternative sites of care and also continuing to educate
healthcare providers. The demand for Paxlovid seems to have stabilized, in the slide you can see,
the total number of patients treated with Paxlovid in '24, which is very similar to the same period
in '23. It appears to be closely correlated with its weight of COVID-19 that also appear to have
very similar patent in '23 and '24.The 63% operational growth in the third quarter of our Vyndaqel family of products is a direct
result of our progress in expanding the healthcare provider base and supporting clinicians in
identifying more patients who can benefit from this therapy, as well as our work to improve
patient access and adherence to therapy. Internationally, Vyndaqel is reimbursed in 44 markets
right now, and more are expected next year. While diagnostic rates vary across markets, the
unmet medical need remains significant as illustrated by the 10% increase of patients on
treatment in the third quarter versus the second quarter of 2024 in the US.
We were pleased by the 74% quarterly operational growth and continued progress with
expanding access with Cibinqo, a treatment for patients 12 and up with moderate-to-severe
eczema who didn't respond to other treatments, and 27% growth in the US from the second to
third quarters of 2024 with Litfulo, the first and only FDA approved prescription pill for both adults
and adolescents as young as 12 with severe alopecia areata
Right now, I will turn it over to Dave.
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert, and good morning, everyone. I will build on Albert's comments by reinforcing
that we are very pleased with the financial results for the third quarter of 2024. These results
demonstrate that our focus and execution against our five strategic priorities are driving positive
patient outcomes and continued financial and operational strength. In addition to our strong top
line performance, our cost reduction programs are creating a more efficient organization, setting
the stage for increased capital returns and supporting our commitment to maintaining and
growing our dividend all while enhancing shareholder value.
This morning, I will briefly review our Q3 P&L performance. I'll highlight our capital allocation
priorities, and touch on our full year 2024 financial guidance. Additionally, as we approach the end
of the year, I will also share several modeling considerations as we begin to plan for 2025.
Turning first to the third quarter performance versus the same period of last year, let me walk
down the P&L. Total company revenues were $17.7 billion, representing an impressive 32%
operational growth. Our COVID-19 products were significant contributors, with Paxlovid
generating $2.7 billion in revenue. This included $442 million related to delivering 1 million
treatment courses to the US Government Strategic National Stockpile. Comirnaty, our COVID-19
vaccine, contributed $1.4 billion in revenue.
Our COVID-19 products were not the only driver during the quarter. Our non-COVID products
also exhibited robust performance, with revenues of $13.6 billion reflecting 14% operational year-
over-year growth. This performance shows that our refined commercial approach is working, we
continue to focus on key products and geographies. We've refined how we allocate our
commercial field resources globally and we're further optimizing our marketing resources into key
priority areas.
We saw strong contribution from our recently acquired Seagen products, including Padcev, which
continues its momentum following the results of the EV-302 study last year. Other key growth
drivers included Vyndaqel, Eliquis, Xtandi, and Nurtec partially offset by declines in Xeljanz and
Ibrance.
Adjusted gross margin for the current third quarter is approximately 72%, primarily the result of a
net unfavorable mix related to our COVID-19 products, primarily due to the COVID -- commodity
profit slip -- split with BioNTech and applicable royalty expenses as well, as a slight dampeningdue to the associated costs incurred with the withdrawal of Oxbryta. All of this was partially offset
by our ongoing focus on cost management across our manufacturing network.
We continue to expect gross margins to be in the mid-70s for the full year and as previously
communicated long-term improvements in gross margins will remain a key focus for the company
over the next several years. We expect to achieve savings from Phase 1 of our manufacturing
optimization program beginning in 2025 and deliver approximately $1.5 billion in savings for the
first phase by the end of 2027.
In parallel, we continue to evaluate our strategy for both Phase 2 and Phase 3, which will focus on
network structure and product portfolio respectively, and we expect to have more information to
share on those components of the program once they become available. Total adjusted
operating expenses decreased 2% operationally to $5.8 billion, and I will note that this amount
includes spending acquired via our Seagen transaction.
And looking at the components, Adjusted SI&A expenses increased 1% operationally driven
primarily by marketing and promotional expenses for recently launched and acquired products
partially offset by a reduction in US healthcare reform fees. Adjusted R&D Expenses decreased
4% operationally driven primarily by lower spending on certain vaccine programs, as well as our
cost realignment program partially offset by an increase in spending related to the Seagen
acquisition.
We continue to be disciplined with our operational expense management and remain on track to
deliver at least $4 billion in net cost savings from our cost realignment program by year end. Q3
reported diluted earnings per share was $0.78 for the quarter and our adjusted diluted earnings
per share was $1.06, benefiting from our top line performance and efficient operating structure,
as well as a favorable tax rate driven primarily by jurisdictional mix.
As mentioned last quarter, unique one-time items included in our GAAP results and excluded
from our adjusted results this quarter include a $420 million charge related to the expected sale
of one of our facilities resulting from the discontinuation of our DMD program earlier this year.
Now let me quickly touch upon our capital allocation strategy, which is designed to enhance long-
term shareholder value, a strategy consists of both maintaining and growing our dividend over
time, reinvesting in our business at an appropriate level of financial return, and making value-
enhancing share repurchases after delevering our balance sheet. In the first nine months of '24,
we returned $7.1 billion to shareholders via our quarterly dividend, invested $7.8 billion in internal
R&D and as expected, completed business development activity was minimal.
Our commitment to de-levering our capital structure to a gross leverage target of 3.25 times
remains a key priority. In support of that goal, year to date, we have de-levered by approximately
$4.4 billion, paying down approximately $2.3 billion in maturing debt and approximately $2.1 billion
in commercial paper. And, in October, we monetized another tranche of our Haleon shares, which
for reporting purposes, is a Q4 event. We received approximately $3.5 billion in net cash
proceeds and our ownership in Haleon was reduced from approximately 23% to approximately
15%. Year-to-date, we have received approximately $6.9 billion of net cash proceeds from the
sales of our (technical difficulty) shares. We intend to monetize our remaining Haleon investment
in a prudent fashion considering our cash flow requirements and future market conditions.
Overall, in Q3, we generated robust operating cash flows, which combined with the Haleon net
sale proceeds of approximately $3.5 billion, resulting in a significant free cash flow generation as
we enter the fourth quarter. Our objective remains to de-lever and return to a more balancedNow, let me spend just a few minutes on our outlook for the full year. Based on our focused
execution and strong year-to-date results, we are raising our full year '24 revenue guidance by
$1.5 billion and our adjusted diluted earnings per share by $0.30. We now expect revenues in the
range of $61 billion to $64 billion, and operational revenue growth excluding COVID-19 products is
unchanged at 9% to 11% and takes into consideration the reduction of sales associated with
Oxbryta.
COVID-19 product revenues are now expected to be $10.5 billion, $5 billion for Comirnaty and
$5.5 billion for Paxlovid. Our guidance for adjusted SI&A, adjusted R&D, and our effective tax rate
on adjusted income remains unchanged.
And lastly, we expect adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.75 to $2.95 primarily reflecting the
topline increase and absorbing the Oxbryta impact. As a reminder, our EPS guidance includes an
anticipated $0.40 of earnings dilution from the Seagen acquisition, largely due to the financing
costs.
Now as we begin to look towards next year, I want to touch on a few modeling considerations. As
we previously discussed there are several non-recurring items included in our 2024 results. First,
during 2024, Paxlovid revenue included a US Government revenue credit true-up and the
fulfillment of our obligation to the US National Strategic Stockpile.
Second, given our ownership of Haleon is now below 20%, we will no longer record equity
income from that investment in our adjusted earnings beginning in 2025.
And finally, our 2024 tax rate on adjusted income was favorably impacted by timing with respect
to the impact of Pillar 2 and to a lesser extent, audit settlements. All in, these items are expected
to have a favorable impact on full year 2024 adjusted diluted earnings per share of
approximately $0.30.
In closing, I am extremely pleased with our third quarter 2024 results and our overall performance
this year. Our team remains dedicated to strong operational execution, and we believe our cost
savings programs will drive enhanced operating leverage over time that will enable us to
consistently deliver on our financial commitments to shareholders. We are committed to driving
long-term value creation through scientific leadership, portfolio strength, and productivity across
all aspects of our business.
And with that, I will now turn it back over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. It's time for the Q&A. But before we take our first question, I want to briefly
address a topic that I know is in the minds of many. We seek to be attentive to our shareholders
and are always open to hearing their perspectives. We had a meeting with Starboard Value two
weeks ago. I was there with our Lead Director and our Head of Investor Relations. The meeting
was constructive and cogent. They presented the same deck they made public last week. And
given the proximity to our quarterly earnings day, we were mainly in listening mode.
While we agree with some of the points they raised, we have vastly different views on many
others. For example, they expressed dissatisfaction with our total shareholder return. We are not
satisfied either, though we believe we are executing on the best path forward to increase
shareholder value.
On the other hand, they challenged our capital deployment for business development. Weor BioNTech have been transformational for Pfizer. The important thing is what we do to improve
performance.
In January, we presented a five-point plan aiming to create shareholder value that has guided our
decision-making all year long. We remain focused on executing this plan and on delivering for our
commitments, including driving long-term shareholder value.
We will engage productively with our shareholders, including Starboard and will consider all good
ideas that they are offering.
And with that, operator, please assemble the queue to discuss our third quarter performance
and pipeline.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman
Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good morning, and thank you very much. I wanted to ask questions about the pipeline, in
particular with regard to obesity, where we appreciate the additional insights into what you have
in the clinic. Albert, you previously said that you believe that Pfizer could be the number two
company on the market within oral that would imply that danuglipron is the lead asset there.
However, you do have two additional assets that we find intriguing a GLP-1 oral that is in Phase 1
that is once a day, but would clearly be behind. And then now an oral GIP-antagonist, which I think
is a source of debate, can you frame what your strategy is, how important it is to be second to
market versus perhaps having a differentiated approach with these two assets? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Look, I will ask Mikael to comment because there is a lot of activities going on right now on that.
But my general comment is that as I have said, if danu moves fast based on what we know right
now, we should be the second oral into the market, provided that the first one will be successful
and the other ones will not come before us. But so far, this is what situation looks like.
The market is very, very large and there is a significant need for all solution. We know that. So
there is no doubt that if successful, we will have our decent market share over there.
But the important thing it is that obesity market is developing, let's say, nicely also in terms of
science and we are exploring several other opportunities right now. The two that we have
mentioned in the clinic, Mikael can speak a little bit more, both about the danu and the other two,
Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Thank you, Albert. Yeah. As you heard in Albert's remarks before the meeting, we continue to
execute on our danuglipron plan which includes once a day profile with a modified-release type
of system. And we do believe that once a day with modified release could have some really
special features and bringing that as a second oral would help really to have a strong foot into
that market in the same way we have seen injectable being split between two different products.I don't expect that the various oral will in the end differ that much in the GLP-1 class. So that's why
we were keen also to move a GIPR which could add better tolerability and more efficacy and
we're right now initiating Phase 2 studies on the backbone of Glyph engines. And these are our
two more advanced bets. Plus we always like to bring in this huge segment in drugs and have
more options as we advance. And you have heard there are so many applications for Glyph ones
and that's why we have a second once a day agent.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mickael. The next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Srikripa Devarakonda, Analyst, Truist Securities with Truist. Your line is open.
Q - `Srikripa Devarakonda, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Hey guys, thank you so much for taking my question. I have actually a question on your recent
data from pembrolizumab program in cachexia. You reported positive Phase 2 data and just
broadly speaking, this program has been previously highlighted as well. For the registrational trial,
would a trial that replicates your Phase 2 in a larger group of patients be sufficient or would you
need to show outcomes like survival? And also as we await details of the registrational trial, can
you help us understand how big of an opportunity you see for this drug? Thank you so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let's start with Mikael, a little bit on the science and then maybe Andrew can speak about the
potential market size of the cachexia.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
I think in general for cancer agents and this is more in the supportive care, we're addressing
segments of unmet patient needs which relates to being able to regain performance status with
better body weight, have higher physical activity and be able to go through more treatment
cycles, which should often translate to better long-term survival.
As that is always dependent on how patients cross over to different trials. So I do think initial
registration will come from similar endpoint as in our Phase 2 studies, but we clearly aim to
translate that better patient performance to other outcomes that are more harder endpoint
going through more treatment cycles and treatment that correlate with better cancer outcome
over time.
And this is -- will be shown in multiple cancer types. So we do think similar to other products that
earlier have been heavily used in supportive cancer care, this could be a very large opportunity.
And in addition to that, we are running heart failure studies and looking at a third opportunity, also
large chronic disease.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And with that, Andrew, some comments on the potential of this molecule.
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah, hello, Srikripa. I'm building on Mikael's comments, look, cachexia has a massive unmetwithin pancreatic and non-small cell lung cancer. It's probably about 20% to 30% in heart failure
and COPD. The size of the market really depends on whether it's viewed as a supportive care
therapy. But also obviously, as Mikael mentioned, whether you have outcome benefit. And
obviously, depending on the outcome of those trials, we're going to be looking at different price
points. So the size of the market or particularly the size of this drug is going to be very much
informed by the data that we deliver in the pending Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I feel like it's still very early in your engagement with
some of your shareholders and the new shareholders. So perhaps it might be too premature to
ask much further on that. So instead, maybe if I'll focus on pipeline briefly. I know you mentioned,
Mikael, that the oral GLP antagonist adds better tolerability and more efficacy. It sounded like you
were implying it's more incremental to what an oral GLP could do as a standalone. Could you just
lay that into context, for example, in the four week Phase 1 study you ran, did it hit 4% to 5%
weight loss? And secondly, the more than 30-valent pneumococcal vaccine that you guys
disclosed this morning, does it have more than one carrier protein? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yeah, I think the ability of GLP to act in concert with GLP-1 has been well documented in a few
different peptide settings. So we aim to be the first to document this with an oral approach and
that could offer a really nice differentiation for patients that need more and faster achieving of
the treatment objectives. That's what we want to reveal right now.
On the -- our new platform for PCV generation fourth and five will include a number of technical
improvements. We don't want to disclose those today, but we did -- we're open to mention that
our PCV fourth generation, which covers 25 serotypes, have as an example an improved
serotype-3 based on new technology that moves it far beyond what we believe any other
technology have been able to accomplish.
And why is that important? Well, serotype-3 covers somewhere between 15% to 30% of disease
in different countries, and improving on that can have a bigger impact than adding a number of
broader infrequent serotypes. As we go to the more than 30 day, it will be a combination of such
improvement and many more serotypes.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. The next question, please.
OperatorQ - `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS `
Hi guys, sorry, I was on mute there. `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS from UBS, thanks for taking my questions. I have
two. So thanks very much for the comments on the activist investor. You said you disagreed with
the thoughts over capital deployment and then you cited significant shareholder returns for
Seagen and BioNTech what's the difference between what you're thinking and perhaps what the
street is thinking here on BD? And then how do you intend to restore that investor confidence
back into the company so that bridge between your expectations and the street can be aligned?
And then just on your commitment to delivering. Thanks for the comments on the prepared
remarks here. Is there an appetite to de-lever even quicker and sell the hospital business and
fully divest the Haleon stake earlier? And you do have products going off with LOE soon. That
could give you a little bit more flexibility on the balance sheet. So yeah, just thoughts here.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Why don't we start with this one and then I'll take a little bit the activist question.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So first on the de-levering point, yes, our objective is to de-lever as rapidly as possible. And
I think the company has been laser focused on doing that given the fact that we've taken out
about $4.4 billion in debt year-to-date, and we'll continue to do that.
Secondly, without speaking directly around any potential BD opportunities here, is we're always
looking to evaluate the infrastructure that we have and the assets that we currently maintain and
understand if there's an availability to -- I'll say, monetize some of those assets over time to
further support our de-levering activity. So I would say all options are on the table and we'll
continue to evaluate on what makes the most sense for us strategically long term.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. As regards to the our projections compared to the street projections in the business
development. First of all let's start by saying that by far the two biggest it is, Seagen and
BioNTech in terms of revenues, right. And in both of that I think the street move on Seagen way
up compared to when we made the deal and on the Comirnaty we are very very stable.
The other ones that also if you add to that the Biohaven with the Nurtec which we are on our
plans and we just exceeded for the second quarter straight expectations it is covering 80% of
the investment that we have made and probably way more in terms of revenues. And the most
important thing is that those, Seagen for example, or the BioNTech with our development of
mRNA infrastructure around the world and the Seagen acquisition with our taking over the ADC
technology of it, which was a unique asset is transformational for Pfizer.
It's not the revenue growth that we are seeing right now and we will continue seeing all the way
towards the end of the decade. But it is two, ADCs, one already in Phase 3, the other is about to
start Phase 3 that we got from Seagen, one the SV and the other PDL1, ADC, those are mega
blockbusters if there are technical success, mega blockbusters. And we are moving to Phase 3
because we have seen very positive earlier data.
The same issue, we are starting with disitamab vedotin in genitourinary cancer, another agency.
So I would say that I think -- we truly think that this was well-invested capital and will demonstrate
significant value for shareholders.But I want also to make a final comment for I mean discussion with activists. But no matter if we
agree or disagree on what has happened, I think the most important thing, it is what we are
doing going forward. Starboard has not presented any specific actions, but they suggested
something needs to change. From that point, in the beginning of the year, already a year ago, we
are already starting changing a lot of things.
Over the past 10 months, we have implemented changes like, we changed our commercial
model to separate the US and international business and appointed new leaders who have now
delivered three consecutive quarters of revenue and earnings space.
We integrated Seagen and created an end-to-end oncology research organization to ensure a
successful integration of the company, of the Seagen pipeline and we have retained the vast
majority of the legacy Seagen COVID and we have delivered multiple, multiple successful
readouts from that.
We announced a plan to reduce OpEx by $4 billion, which we are executing successfully without
negatively affecting the top line. We announced an additional plan to reduce manufacturing costs
by $1.5 billion, which so far is delivering satisfactory results.
We brought in `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, which is a knowledgeable research analyst to help prioritize our
R&D pipeline and future business development. We are advancing now the process of selecting a
new Scientific Officer, and we have enhanced our Board with two terrific new directors who have
deep expertise in corporate governance and same-holder value-creation.
So what we believe is that all these things are the results of an intentional five-point plan that we
rolled out already in January of last year. So as I said in my personal let's say remarks, we plan to
engage with shareholders, including Starboard and consider any good ideas that create long-
term shareholder value. But I don't think that the statement, something needs to change is really
pragmatic because it's coming 15 months late.
Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor with Cantor. Your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. So just had two here. First one I wanted to ask you is how we
should think about the big pushes and pulls for sales and EPS in 2025 and when you might give
guidance, could it be as early as this year?
And then second one, just on Seagen, just wondering how the integration is coming along and if
you have any updates to some of the metrics that you gave like sales in 2030 and what have you
for the Seagen deal? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Dave, let's start with the first question.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So thank you. Regarding 2025 is really topical because we're in the middle, as you can
imagine, building our 2025 financial plan here across all of our business lines at (technicaldifficulty)
To your point, there's going to be a lot of pushes and pulls as we think about growth into next
year on both our core business as well as our COVID business. It is our expectation that is we will
provide guidance for 2025 most likely by the end of this year. So stay tuned, more to come. We
will lay out all the pushes and pulls when we give guidance for 2025, so you can get a very clear
understanding of our business and the opportunities to enhance shareholder value longer-term.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Chris, can you give us an update on the Seagen integration, both speak a little bit about the
commercial, but also focus on the research which is a significant value.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
And thank you very much for the question. Overall, we're very pleased with the integration to
date and we've retained the vast majority of colleagues at legacy Seagen and we now have over
1,500 colleagues working in our facilities in Bothell, just outside Seattle. As you saw the global
revenue in Q3, we printed $854 million from legacy Seagen and of that Padcev printed over $400
million in Q3.
Seagen year-to-date delivered for us $2.3 billion, which is 38% year-over-year on a pro forma
basis. And we continue to execute very well on the portfolio, on the pipeline. We started Phase 3
studies with disitamab vedotin in urothelial cancer, that's HER2 low, which is up to 40% of bladder
cancer. With sigvotatug vedotin, the differentiated B6A started the first Phase 3 study in non-
squamous non-small cell lung cancer, that's where we saw the most significant data and we're
also planning to start the combination of Sigvotatug vedotin plus pembrolizumab in the first-line
setting of non-small cell lung cancer and recently discussed and aligned with the FDA on the trial
design and on the dosing.
We're also progressing and should start a Phase 3 program with the PDL1V, vedotin in
combination with pembrolizumab early next year. So overall, great commercial performance so
far. We haven't missed a beat and we continue to execute on the pipeline.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Citi with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Citi `
Good morning, everyone. Thanks so much for the question. I just had a couple of quick ones.
Mikael, another one on obesity, and I know you've added assets outside of danuglipron and I
appreciate that it's early, but want to ask you what does success look like on efficacy just given
the bar today? And then strategically, how does Pfizer view orals versus longer-acting injectables
when you think about the investments Pfizer is making in this category?
And then real quick, Albert, on the IRA, obviously, it seems here to stay, but when you think about
the potential for a new administration, what do you -- what was -- what would Pfizer like to see
obviously beyond closing the gap between orals and biologics on exclusivity? Thank you.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
You know, for orals to keep it the very in row, I think you have a number of things that could be
advantageous. One is, of course, they combine so well with all other drugs that are involved in
cardiometabolic disease to give long outcomes.
And what you're looking for, I would say is 10% to 20%, albeit[ph] the lower range or for the first
GLP. The upper range is where you can see oral-oral combinations edge towards. And that's very
much similar what you can see with the peptide. So I kept it very broad with a lower end of
aspirational range, the lower for more single agents that will edge above that and combine
agents that can aspire to go above 15 and edge above -- and edge that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Now on, Geoff, on IRA, clearly IRA overall is negative for innovation and does
not promote a spirit that people could provide investments. But there are also some good things
about it. So clearly, I wouldn't like to see that the out-of-pocket limit that next year will be $167 per
month for all your medicines for seniors, but that's we want to be maintained.
But this force price setting is not a negotiation and also the penalty peel between -- are things
that needs to change and it's not only on IRA, I would mention that 340B right now, it is one of
the biggest issues and it is unethical and it is the way that it is evolving and it is creating significant
transfer of funds from where it needs to be used, the poorer people to bolster the profit lines of
some business.
So 340B reform is something that myself and the entire pharma setting as a priority right now. So
thank you for your question.
Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks so much. Appreciate the questions. Two for me. I guess first one is on the RSV
opportunity. Just wondering what you see as the most likely outcome here for revaccination
frequency and the potential impact on the longer-term market opportunity.
And then the second question is more of a clarification on your CDK4 inhibitor. You guided to
starting first line Phase 3 study early next year. Just wondering if you can share any more detail
there on the design, if that would be a head-to-head versus IBRANCE and if it would be in combo
with Tivdak or if that's a monotherapy type design? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Amir, would you like to speak a little about the RSV and commerce?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `Yeah. Just maybe -- Terence to directly answer your question. So, how the market evolves, it's
going to be a function of how ACIP recommendations for RSV evolve and that includes
revaccination timeframe as you mentioned, but also populations. I don't think it's really productive
for us to predict how ACIP is going to evolve these recommendations, but we do feel confident
in the Abrysvo's profile.
And importantly what I would like to highlight is we feel very confident in our ability to pull that
profile through. You heard Albert describe our momentum in the US market, particularly in light of
dramatic improvements in our market share versus last year and we continue to be ready to
advance in vaccinations in the fourth quarter as well.
And the last thing I would say is the FDA's recent approval of the 18 to 59 year old at-risk
population makes Abrysvo the only RSV vaccine that's indicated to protect patients as young as
18 years of age and it further strengthens this perspective on the viability of Abrysvo.
Last thing I'll say is on maternal, we have also had really good momentum on our Abrysvo
maternal indication. We see very strong signals in uptake. For the month of September, we had a
20% uptake which is a full doubling of where we ended the last season and we continue to see
uptake amongst OB/GYN and health systems. So in the first four weeks of this season the units
that we shipped into those systems are up 56% from the first four weeks of last season. So, we
see momentum on Abrysvo and we look forward to future ACEF updates.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Alexandre, do you want to add something on the international, because that's also an
important market for us?
A - `Alexandre De Germay, Executive Vice President, Chief International Commercial Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. Even though it's still not material yet, we are actually making very good
progress. So on the adult front, we actually got VTC recommendations since the beginning of the
year in large markets like UK, Germany, France and Canada, in Australia, in Saudi Arabia and a lot
of other mid-sized markets, lots of positive VTC recommendation.
Now we're moving into funding and as you know at the second quarter we said that we won the
exclusive UK tender. That's what we did. We also won the Canadian tender. Now in terms of
reimbursement, we just got actually regional reimbursement in Germany and we are launching
(inaudible) in October in Germany. Now all the others, the large market and the mid-size market
that I've talked about are in phase of negotiation.
On the adult side. The last thing I want to say is actually we are working toward our immuno-
bridging study in 2025 in China so that we can do an NDA finding which is also an important
market for us. On the pediatric side also we are making good progress. We also got VTC
recommendation in large market like the UK in France, in Australia, in several other mid-sized
market and actually yesterday we just got also the Pan-American Health organization that covers
40 markets in the Americas that actually listed at Abrysvo in their RSV recommendation.
So we're getting also reimbursement in France and we have actually just launched in France
recently. There again on pediatric. Once we got all those positive recommendations we are
moving into reimbursement. So, we see great potential. It's going to take a bit of time because
we go through all those different steps, but we see good potential there, absolutely.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you. And then why don't we go to Chris for the question on the design of the Phase 3?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thank you very much for the question on atirmociclib our highly selective CDK4 inhibitor. This was
another small molecule that was conceptualized and discovered in our laboratories in La Jolla and
as you know is currently in a Phase 3 program for second-line plus hormone receptor positive
breast cancer. This is potentially not only a first-in-class but best-in-class highly selective CDK4
inhibitor.
And as CDK6 leads to some of the vulnerabilities including the bone marrow toxicity. And that's
why we're focusing on CDK4 which drive breast cancer proliferation. So we believe with the
current data including the safety and tolerability, the early clinical data support the potential for
more complete and continuous dosing with CDK4.
And as you've seen we've got no Grade 4 neutropenia, no Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea and no Grade 4
and treatment related AEs was observed. We've aligned with the FDA on the first line hormone
receptor positive breast cancer study which will start in the coming months and it will be against
physicians; choice of CDK4/6 inhibitor. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets with BMO Capital Markets. Your line
is open.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, there, thank you for taking my questions. So I have one for Andrew on honor of what I believe
is his first call on the other side. So in your first four months or so, can you help us better
understand your findings regarding the portfolio? And more broadly, how do you hope to shape
and focus the wide variety of assets that Pfizer has to drive sustainable growth?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So, what -- now that you're in the dark side, what is your opinion my friend?
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Well, I think A, Evan, thank you for the question. B, I think in response to Albert's question, I think
coming from finance, I guess farmers are stepping to the light side rather than the dark side. But
in terms of the question, look, I always regarded Pfizer's R&D engine highly just because when
you look at the stream of molecules that have been internally discovered at Pfizer over the years,
first ALK inhibitor, first CDK4/6 inhibitor, numerous JAKs, Abrysvo, there's clearly a very, very
strong record of discovery and execution.
And it's not just small molecules, I hasten to add. You see that in vaccines, in oligos, the cell
therapies, and bispecific. And for me when I made the move, this was absolutely key in terms of a
company that had this because if you don't have this then life is very, very difficult. Now, in answer
to where I hope to add value coming forward, I think as Albert alluded to earlier, historicallyperhaps we may have pursued areas where that R&D investment hasn't translated into the type
of revenues you want.
The point is that this is a much easier challenge to solve. It's a matter of taking this incredibly
powerful machine and pointing it in the right direction so that we are targeting those areas that
translate into revenues. And if there's one thing that I think the COVID experience shows you is
once Pfizer focuses execution is something you should feel very comfortable about.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew and Evan for the question. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). We'll take our next question from `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein with
Bernstein. Your line is open.
Q - `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein `
Hi everyone. Thanks so much for the time today. This is `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Perhaps
building on the last question, looking at Slide 28, in the presentation today, it suggested that in
the last three months from the end of July to today that there has been no meaningful
advancement of the pipeline. Albeit there are a number of pipeline actions kind of suggested to
be initiating soon. We are suggesting this is likely as a response to the reset and cost cutting
that's going on. My first cut to this question is how will you ensure that this isn't repeated in
further quarters? And how are you balancing the need to kind of take stock and cut while
ensuring that high potential opportunities are getting appropriately accelerated through the
pipeline?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Then maybe I will ask the two R&D heads to comment on that, please. Let's start with Chris.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, thank you for the question. So just a reminder, this year we've already started eight new first
in patient studies in oncology which I believe makes us the number one company in terms of
Phase 1 clinical trial started. In the coming months we expect potential Phase 3 readouts for
breakwater which is a very important indication for us in BRAF mutated colorectal cancer, which is
up to 10% of colorectal cancer that will be in the first line setting a big unmet need because
there's particularly poor prognosis patients presenting with BRAF mutated colorectal cancer.
We also expect readouts for VERITAC-2, ER PROTAC. We co developing with Arvinas for ER
positive second-line plus metastatic breast cancer and potentially for CREST which is sasanlimab,
a differentiated sub-cut PD1 in combination with PCD in non muscle invasive bladder cancer. We
will also present in the coming months Phase 2 randomized data for mevrometostat. This is
randomized Phase 2 data in patients with prostate cancer.
We've seen the data and that provided us the confidence to initiate the two Phase 3 programs. In
the coming months, we'll also start additional Phase-3 studies, as I mentioned, CDK4 in first line
neovascular breast cancer, sigvotatug vedotin in combination with pembrolizumab in PD-L1 high,
first-line non-small cell lung cancer, and KAT6 ER-positive breast cancer.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `So quite impressive on the oncology side. Mikael, what about the rest?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yeah. We thought we helped you to focus by this quarter displaying some nice movement at the
most valuable part of this chart, the right hand. When you look over the next 18 months and
including oncology and non-oncology, we will have up to 40 different opportunities to fill the left
side that I hear you are eager to see progress on and the right-hand, it will include -- 40 will be
divided between potential approvals, projected pivotal readout and potential proof of concept
and that did not even include early signals in clinical development.
Q - `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein `
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Courtney, for the question. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you very much. Pfizer has previously stated it anticipated having visibility on long-term
COVID product sales based on 2024 trends since we are now nearing the end of 2024. I'm
wondering what that long-term number is.
And then secondly, does Pfizer have the Phase 3 booster data for the RS vaccine in adults in-
house? And if yes, does the data show a similar step-down in booster immunogenicity as did the
GSK vaccine? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. So on the stability, let's -- maybe Aamir, do you want to make a comment (inaudible) but
you [ph]would wait on this.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Let me just comment on performance. I think, Steve, I think both on Paxlovid and Comirnaty, I think
what our performance to date as well as the quarter would show us is that these are both
entering into a category where we understand what the volumes are likely to be and we believe
these are going to be durable businesses going forward.
So just as an example, on Paxlovid, even if you take the one-time items that Dave alluded to
aside for a moment, we've seen significant Paxlovid treatment course utilization, right, even just in
the summer wave that happened over the course of the third quarter, we saw an average of
about 100,000 courses of treatment at the start of July, growing to about 225,000 treatment
courses in mid-August before that wave declined. And we've built a very durable commercial
engine to support that with increasing treatment rates with very viable reimbursement, both on
the government side as well as on the commercial side, and a way to activate HCPs and
consumers who need treatment.And similarly on the vaccine, our goal this year with Comirnaty and we had the benefit of being
able to start three weeks before last year was to start the season with plenty of vaccine infrages,
both in the retail setting as well in the health system setting. And again, we've demonstrated an
ability to do that quite well.
When you look at where vaccination is this year versus last year, it's a little bit higher actually, but a
big part of that is just a function of the calendar and the three weeks earlier. We expect to see
vaccinations continue in October through December and the shape of that curve will continue to
evolve, but all of this makes us confident that we're seeing a durable business both on vaccines
and pax.
A - `Alexandre De Germay, Executive Vice President, Chief International Commercial Officer `
And for international, this is Alexandre, thanks for the question. Same principles we see is doing
business in Comirnaty, just want to remind everyone that in the international division, we closed
our third quarter at the end of August. So basically, you don't see any sales of Comirnaty simply
because most market are starting their vaccination campaign in September.
Having said that, we are progressing very nicely in our key regions. So in Europe, we got the
approval of the Gen1 adapted vaccine in July and we got the KP to adapted vaccine in
September. Since basically end of August, we started to work with our healthcare authorities
partner in Europe where we have an existing contract to implement the multi-year contract that is
in place.
Same thing in the UK and Canada. We've also worked with the authority to actually execute our
contract. In Japan, we also got the general adapted vaccine approved in mid-September and
Comirnaty is actually the only a PFS vaccine never frozen, which could be a competitive
advantage considering the distribution model in Japan.
So again, we see this as an enduring business and we see us, as I said, executing our existing
contract in our key location.
From a Paxlovid standpoint, Q3 was a good Q3 for us and it's actually very good because it
satisfies our perception that actually this is a sustainable business with sustainable demand, which
coincide with the COVID waves. And we had quite a strong spring waves in Europe and Asia and
that translated into immediate demands.
Just to close, I want to say that 47 countries outside of this US have transitioned from advanced
purchasing into commercial. So as we see in the US, it is an enduring, and now the sales that we
see quarter-after-quarter reflect the absolute demand and reflect the waves as they hit the
different region of the world.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Steve, also I can't resist also making some comments. In the 5.5 years as CEO, I had 23
earnings releases, of which, 22 we beat EPS of Bloomberg and one we missed. And I don't like
the one that we missed and that was in Q3 last year and we missed it because of COVID.
We severely miscalculated. Yes, there are excuses that the last pandemic was 100 years ago. So
we didn't have, let's say, benchmark. But -- and also we had to reduce it significantly. We had $56
billion of COVID revenues in 2022 and we gave a guidance of $22 billion. So we reduced it to
40% on what used to be.However, life proved, but we got it wrong in us and Moderna and everybody else. And the reality
was that it was not $22 billion, but $12 billion. So we are very careful now when we speak about
COVID because we don't want to miss it again.
And I -- but I would like to say that when I see the trends of the COVID business, Paxlovid, which
for us is even more important because of the higher level of profitability, it is basically identical
utilization of last year compared to this year. So far, we had 4.9 million patients treated until Q3
with Paxlovid in the US and compared to 5.2 million people last year, the same period.
The treatment rates have improved from 50% last year to 57% and the fulfillment rates went a
little bit down because now there is co-pay from 88% went to 81%, but is very, very stable. The
same is with the COVID vaccination. When you see the trends of COVID vaccinations, the
utilizations are basically the same like the last year, more or less and still it's early in the season.
So there could be fluctuations over there.
But -- so I think your statement that shall we consider COVID as a normal business now, it's
absolutely true. And this is how we regard it and we will stop separating our business to COVID
and non-COVID because it's Pfizer business.
And with that, I will ask Mikael to make a comment on the RSV.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yeah, thank you for your question. We have started to accumulate data on both durability and the
impact of revaccination for RSV. On the majority of patients that we expected to go to pharmacy
for revaccination, the titers remain robust after one and even two years, which is to punctuate the
quality of our vaccine, but they, of course, decline gradually and we can have some meaningful
improvement in those type with a booster.
But I believe that likely three years, around three years, we will see a drop in the titer that makes
the boost really improve meaningfully the protection for a substantial fraction of the patients. And
that's what we are going to monitor now whether this three years is a good interval. But
otherwise, it's performing exactly as expected for a high-quality vaccine.
Now there could be patient groups that go to physician offices that are more immuno-
compromised, moderate-to-severe patients that may benefit from once a year and that would
be more a physician directive. So I hope that will give you a bit of an understanding how this will
evolve.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Rajesh Kumar, Analyst, HSBC with HSBC. Your line is open.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, Analyst, HSBC `
Hi there. My apologies. I was on mute. So two questions, if I may. What are the -- what is the
impact of Part-D and IRA on your business next year. Are there any numbers you're calling out,
which might help us with the modeling? That would be very helpful to understand if there are any
impacts.And the second one is, I appreciate the color on the Seagen pipeline and how you're
progressing, and how the market underappreciates the size of the opportunity. And then the sell-
side estimates clearly do not reflect your optimism. When is it that you'll feel a bit more confident
or what do you need to see to increase your longer-term guidance on Seagen?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Dave, can you take the IRA market? Next (multiple speakers)
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes, I'll just hit on it very briefly. Obviously, the IRA and that the redesign has pluses and pull --
pushes and pulls to us as we cycle into next year. When we provide guidance by the end of this
year, we will give you a view on the net impact of that as we think about our business. So more to
come. Hold tight on that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And there are puts and takes. So positive things and negative things.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Correct.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So we need to assess it as we are building now these calculations as we are building our budgets
for next year.
Seagen pipeline, Chris?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah, thank you for the question. So I think last year at this time, we didn't expect we're going to
have PADCEV approved in first-line bladder. And everyone forecasted that approval for the first
half of this year and obviously the approval happened very early because of the unprecedented
data. So I think the performance commercially is really as we expected or exceeded what we
expected in 2024.
If you look at the rest of the pipeline now, the new molecules like sigvotatug vedotin, disitamab,
PDL1V as well as next-generation CD30 ADC called 35C for come to Seagen, [ph]Atopic1. And
we will present next year conferences, more updated data on these, including in combination
with pembrolizumab for sigvotatug vedotin for DV and for PDL1V, as well as really highly
encouraging data for 35C, the next-generation CD30. So I think by showing and releasing more
data next year will help all of you to build confidence in the pipeline.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris, and thank you for the question, Ramesh. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Akash Tewari, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Your line is open.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Analyst, Jefferies `Hey, thanks so much. So looking at some of your IP around 25-valent PREVNAR, it looks like you'll
have a step-up versus your previous 20-valent vaccine, but it does look like effective serotype
coverage could lag meaningfully versus Merck and Vaccit approaches by 10% or more in older
adults. How confident are you that this fortune vaccine could save off a preferential wreck from
some of your peers down the line in adults?
And then number two, can you talk about what special properties your once-daily modified-
release danuglipron could have outside of improved half-life that investors might be
underappreciating? I think those earlier comments stood out to us. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yeah. The 25-Valent that you asked about the fourth generation, we aspire to be the one that
first hits the pediatric market, which is where the bulk of use of doses, but we also think because
of this unique improvement of serotype 3, that is far more important than several of the other
tiny serotypes will bring an overall value to the adult segment that will be very meaningful. And as
you have heard, we are working on a fifth generation that will include both improved
performance such as serotype 3 and go far beyond any of those serotypes that you are talking
about in numbers.
We use 30 plus just to keep a bit of details for the future. For the QD, I think in general, you saw
of course with injectable when you went from once a day to once a week and you got a
smoother profile and reduced the number of peaks that many patients perform better on them.
So that's a hypothesis we are keeping our eyes on that with a modified release, you will have a
more smooth profile. You avoid certainly additional high peaks that immediate-release had and
that's something we have seen in other formulation or other drugs and that's why I think we are
trying to be attentive in order to have our eyes on details that can help to make this product a
really nice oral product with some differentiation.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities with Guggenheim Securities. Your line is
open.
Q - `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So I have a few, but I'll keep it to two. So one just on the
guidance for the full year. You increased the total sales guidance by $1.5 billion. You increased the
COVID products by $2 billion. So I guess you're lowering the non-COVID by about $500 million. I
guess some of that is OXBRYTA, but wondering if there's anything else that you might call out
where you're sort of turning your expectations for the full year.
And then second one, sort of tied to the OXBRYTA news from a few weeks ago, we noticed the
GBT-601 Osivelotor. So that seems to be progressing still in your pipeline. I'm just curious if you're
contemplating or have you made any changes to that approach since the mechanism is obviouslysimilar. But right in, just wondering if anything you've learned from the OXBRYTA situation, should
we should think about carrying over this one? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Vamil. Dave.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah, on the guidance from a revenue perspective, you're absolutely correct. We increased our
overall guidance by $1.5 billion. We increased Paxlovid by $2 billion, which implies that a $500
million compression someplace else in the business. Think about that as largely OXBRYTA. We're
absorbing the OXBRYTA headwind and maintaining our 9% to 11% growth rate in our non-COVID
business, which actually implies that our baseline business is actually performing quite well.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And I want to remind that the non-COVID business was 14% growth this quarter. Then, Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yeah. On the Osivelotor which was previously called 601, yes, I am encouraged about that
opportunity. And of course, we try here to incorporate learnings how OXBRYTA was developed
to our advantage. As you know, that drive was already approved 2019 when we did acquisition a
bit later, and were several programs already up and running.
601 by itself is at a 10-fold lower dose. It has more potency and brings more improvement for
hemolytic anemia, as one example. So this part has performed very well in our Phase 2 and
looked really nice in tolerability. So I'm optimistic about that one.
When I speak about trial learnings, OXBRYTA was performed in the more recent studies in a part
of the world where it's really difficult to do the type of high-quality consistent preclinical trials. And
as we investigating some of those learnings with OXBRYTA, we have as a countermeasure focus
for Osivelotor entirely on high-performance sites that have a history of delivering great drug
development and this will obviously also support a profile. So I'm optimistic.
And asked as a final end here, please remember that when we did the GBT deal, our eyes were
really on Osivelotor where maybe up to 80% of the value of the deal, but OXBRYTA allowed
early entrants into the market and we'll continue to investigate OXBRYTA and keep you updated
what we learned.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Dave Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners with Leerink Partners. Your line is
open.
Q - `Dave Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Yes, thanks very much and thanks for taking all these questions today. So my first question relates
to cost-cutting ahead. Obviously, the company has already engaged in significant SG&A and R&Defficiency initiatives, but I'm curious about whether management sees opportunities for further
SG&A and R&D reductions.
And then with respect to the over 30-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine candidate in
preclinical development, given management's prior statements about its R&D initiatives, I am
assuming that, that will be adjuvanted and I just wanted to confirm that. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me take quickly. Although that's David's domain, SG&A and R&D. Look we did significant
reductions and we were very careful to make them in a way that will not affect our pipeline and
will not affect our business. So we are very happy with what has happened. Now are we going to
not continue being efficient? Of course we will.
I think I see tremendous opportunities ahead of us that we can reduce some of the less ROI
driven investments that we are doing both in R&D and SG&A. And part of that will be of course,
we're invested in more productive with a trend to be able to control the cost and absorb our cost
inflation. So you should see a constant and very cost focused, very cost conscious culture as we
move on.
Now, Mikael, on the third development.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer, President, Pfizer Research & Development
Yeah. You know, Dave, thank you for timely question, and I think we really have been breaking
new ground in our PCV technology platforms and we were obviously very pleased to get some of
our new technologies validated with the Serotype 3 that you heard about in the fourth generation
the 25-valent. The components that allows us to go far beyond 30 includes a very sophisticated
new type of chemistry that on certain type of Serotypes can give several fold improvement in
titer.
There are minor or more substantial formulation changes that can give some to quite significant
fold increase and that may or may not include adjuvants. And there are also experience that
we're gaining on the use of carriers that we haven't been working on in PCV before that can add
to this toolbox. So we are right now bringing all of these data together. And while we feel we
have learned a lot with adjuvant as seen in our C. diff program that allow us to go from three to
two and we have a toolbox new adjuvants where it really will be necessary or not, it's too early to
tell, but I acknowledge your good skills in the vaccine technology and we keep you updated as
we get closer to selecting candidates.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Next question please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Great. Thanks very much. Just two quick ones here. Just first on margin structure and following up
on the prior question. Is a mid-to-high 30% adjusted kind of operating margin adjusted for
Comirnaty still fair for Pfizer? And what's a rough timeline to get there?And then my second question was just on the VYNDAQEL, VYNDAMAX franchise. Obviously very
strong year this year, but sting out to next year. We've got the party redesign, we've got
incremental competition. Is there still enough volume opportunity here to think about this as a
franchise that's going to be generating healthy growth or should we think about growth slowing
significantly going forward? Thank you.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
(inaudible). So first, obviously mid-to-high 30s is very much within the realm of our business
model. We're very focused against that. We continue to march and make progress against that
over time. So we don't have a specific date for you at this point in time. But as we continue to
progress both this year and we give guidance for next year, you should see us continue to
progress on that front.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And I think Comirnaty was also a little bit question.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Well, I think Comirnaty obviously is a down draft to that. So obviously, adjusted for the size
of that business will be important. But having said that, we continue to make investments in our
business such that we're more productive top-to-bottom, therefore expanding our operating
margin profile of the company.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And we don't want to speak for specific products, the markets, right, because it's a little bit
misleading and depends on multiple things. We did it because of the extraordinary circumstances
in '22. But in general, you all know that from our two products, Paxlovid is very, very-high margin
and Comirnaty is on the low.
Denton, why don't you start international this time and then we end up with a Aamir on Part D
redesign.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Okay, so on the international we had a very strong year and we continued to grow very strongly
this quarter at 31%. Actually our total patient on treatment have increased by 14% in the third
quarter versus the second quarter. So this illustrates the fact that we are growing and we
continue to add new patients on treatment. This is essentially the result of three things.
One, the establishment of (inaudible) the standard of care pretty much in all the countries where
we operate. Two, the establishment of robust infrastructure of care which enable a faster
diagnosis and treatment of these complex diseases. So this is a complex disease, and finding
those patients takes times and now we have a robust structure. And the third element is also, of
course, the increased access. Today, we have 45 countries where we have reimbursements. And
we just recently had in this quarter two countries, the UK and Australia, so two significant
countries that have started to reimburse.
So moving forward, we really see that those three elements will continue to deliver and drive
growth in the key international markets. And if you look at the treatment rates in our major
international market, we still see some potential to increase that difference. So that will be the
drivers of growth in the next few quarters.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
So, Chris, in the US I'll give you a little bit of color. Obviously, Vinda's had very strong growth this
year, and I think a big part of that has been just a direct result of the commercial effort and
attention that we've put on it, where we've seen real growth in diagnosis rate and new patient
starts. So new patient starts are up about 61% versus last year, and they're up about 3% quarter-
over-quarter as well. And we're also improving compliance rates significantly with existing
patients.
For the market, there's a lot of patients, nearly half that remain undiagnosed. So there is
significant opportunity there. We will have tailwinds as we go-forward. So we continue to put
attention on this, and that's going to be largely increased diagnosis education, the prescriber rate
that we're growing as well as affordability conditions and we've turned the page into 2025, but
we do think that the volume growth will be at meaningfully lower levels than what we've seen
year-to-date.
And a big part of that is obviously headwinds we're going to see from the changing market
landscape where we will have new competitive entrants that will impact new patient starts as well
as potential switching of existing patients onto some of these options. So those are some of the
puts and takes on Vinda. IRA will be a piece of that as well, as Dave mentioned, and we'll have
more to share about '25 specifics when we give guidance.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. And the last question please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our last question from `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thank you very much for squeezing me in. And first of all, congrats on phenomenal hire in
`Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President. So maybe like taking a step back, can you comment something about Abrysvo if
there was any stocking in this quarter, this particular market is a lot of like stocking driven in the
fourth and first quarter. So how you are thinking about that? It looks like from the IQVIA trends,
price -- implied price jumped a lot. So if you could help us understand what is going on there and
how should we think about this particular product in coming quarters? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Which product, Mohit.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Abrysvo.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Abrysvo. Thank you. All right.A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
So a few comments on Abrysvo. So we wanted to, as I mentioned before, really start this
vaccination season with Abrysvo infringes and retailers predominantly where the volume is as well
as with health systems. So we worked with our customers and our channel partners to make sure
that we were appropriately stopped and that's reflected in our Q3 numbers.
Now what we have also seen over the course of Q3 is that administration volumes and for
Abrysvo that began in August over the course of the quarter have continued to steadily rise. Now
they are at lower volumes than from a market perspective where they were last year. Lots of
reasons for that, including timing of the COVID vaccines as well as the change in the ACIP
recommendation. But we anticipate that there will be volumes that continue into the fourth
quarter.
And then finally, our results are also a function of what Albert mentioned is our significant
improvement in market share. So we've doubled our market share into end customers from
wholesalers and our market share of actual shots in arms of administrations in the retail setting at
the middle of October was at 43%. So those are all the dynamics that are going into play for
Abrysvo performance in Q3 and heading into Q4.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aamir, and thank you everyone for your attention. It was another good quarter for
Pfizer. I think we are continuing to execute the five points plan, but we have presented at the
beginning of the year, tThere is an underlying operational health of our business. There is
stabilization of the COVID business to -- now we feel comfortable to forecast it. And we have
seen strong growth from the remaining part of the business.
We have seen strong performance from new products and most of them, they have beaten
analysts' expectations this quarter, which shows that they are doing better at least than what was
perceived. They will do. And we are looking forward to continuing this path of executing and
creating shareholder value.
Thank you for your interest in Pfizer, and we hope you have a wonderful week.
Operator
That concludes today's call. You may disconnect at any time.