Q3 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome and thank you for joining the SAP Q3
2024 Earnings Conference Call. Throughout today's recorded presentation, all participants will be
in a listen-only mode. The presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the conference over to `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global
Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Good evening, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us. With me today are CEO,
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; and CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer. On this call, we will discuss SAP's third quarter 2024
results. You can find the deck supplementing this call, as well as our quarterly statement on our
Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to differ materially. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may
be found in our filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the Risk Factors section of our
Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2023.
Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS and growth rates and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS year-on-year at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures
we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Christian, now over to you.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Alexandra, and hello to everyone on the line. Welcome to today's earnings call. As we
are already getting closer to the end of the year, I'm happy to say we are well ahead of our plans
for 2024 and fully on track for our 2025 financial goals.
Clearly, Q3 was another successful step on SAP's transformation journey. Let me quickly explain
to you why. Again, total and cloud revenue growth accelerated also by winning many net new
customers. Operating profit developed better than expected because many underlying
measures of our transformation program start to unfold. And at the same time, we can continue
to deliver innovation, focusing on business AI. Our AI strategy plays a key role across our cloud
ERP suite. Roughly about 30% of our cloud order entering Q3 were deals that included AI use
cases. Finally, we successfully completed the tuck-in acquisition of WalkMe, which is a perfect fit
for our business transformation portfolio.
Let me now talk you through the key metrics for Q3. Current cloud backlog increased 29% and
reached EUR15.4 billion. The increase was almost entirely organic with WalkMe adding only a slight
bit on top. Total revenue growth was once again in double-digit territory, with best-in-class
renewal rates for cloud and our support business. Cloud revenue growth accelerated to 27% and
came in at EUR4.4 billion. And even more important, our cloud ERP suite was again the main
driver of the top-end growth, with accelerated growth of 36% to EUR3.6 billion. Operating profit
increased 28% and reached EUR2.2 billion, with an excellent operating margin of 26.5%. The
share of more predictable revenue is now at 84%.
I guess, it's fair to say that all the hard work to drive SAP's cloud transformation over the last four
years has led to a highly resilient as well as innovative company, and offers us a strong foundation
for many successful years to come.
Behind the impressive results, there are so many exciting customer stories. It's impossible to
mention all the key wins, but let's have a look, for example, at the retail industry. In Q3, we signed
a RISE deal with Schwarz Group. Schwarz is the parent company of the well-known supermarket
chain Lidl & Kaufland, operating about 14,000 stores with almost 600,000 employees. I was
closely involved in the conversation for this partnership. It was all about RISE as a key enabler to
redesign the end-to-end core processes of Schwarz to leverage in the cloud the latest
innovations around business AI and to achieve their long-term growth and sustainability growth,
for example, with the Green Ledger.
In addition, Schwarz Group and SAP will jointly offer RISE on STACKIT, Schwarz Group's digital
cloud infrastructure, which offers a high degree of digital sovereignty. RISE with SAP is protected
by XM Cyber, the Schwarz Group's provider of cloud security solutions.
Speaking of world-class retailers, Sainsbury's, one of the UK's largest supermarket chains,
decided to become part of the SAP family and selected RISE in Q3. And so did Mercado Libre, an
e-commerce leader operating in 18 Latin American countries. With RISE, we will help Mercado
Libre to strengthen decision-making through real-time data, front office, back office, supply chain,
amongst other things. They are also a business AI customer and have major expansion plans in
these areas. Also in Q3, Mondelez closed a RISE deal to expand their North America business
over to Latin America and to EMEA. It's just great to see, quarter-by-quarter, more and more of
the world's hottest companies are joining the RISE movement.
So let's now look at tech. In Q3, one of Europe's most exciting tech startups opted for GROW
with SAP, our cloud journey offering for net new customers. Mistral AI is creating some of the
world's best large language models. They are growing rapidly and see the need for a complete
ERP solution to scale their business on a global level. We also have a technology partnership withMistral. Their large language models are available on the GenAI hub, and we are running Large 2,
one of Mistral's latest modules on SAP infrastructure. Our partners and customers now have
access to an excellent LLM alternative hosted on European territory.
Staying with tech, NVIDIA went live on RISE in Q3. And that was a rapid implementation that took
only six months, thanks to our close collaboration. Also in Q3, the software company Gainsight, a
specialist in customer success solutions, signed a goal with SAP deal. It's just great to see,
quarter-by-quarter, more and more of the world's hottest tech companies are choosing SAP.
They consider our cloud solutions a solid foundation for exponential growth and value creation.
They see us as an innovative leader in ERP, business AI, supply chain solutions, and more. To say it
in short, they trust us to bring out the best in their business, and that's something we are very
proud of.
To close it out, there are many other great wins in Q3. For example, Dawn Foods, DXC
Technology, and Sol de Janeiro, a subsidiary of L'Occitane Group, employs GROW. And for RISE,
we also won Mondelez, Roche, E.ON, Equinor, and Tetra Pak, the who is who in their industries. As
you can see, SAP is already very successful at reaching and winning customers, but we can do
even that. So how will our future go-to-market model look like? Let me start by saying thank you
to Julia White and Scott Russell for their great contributions to our marketing and sales
achievements over the past years. Together, we shape the growth company well-positioned to
tap into the many opportunities ahead.
Going forward, and in the context of our ongoing restructuring, we will center our go-to-market
setup even more strongly around our land-and-expand strategy, with a strong focus on adoption
and consumption.
First, we are making our operating model clearer and more streamlined, reducing the number of
the different shop profiles with the goal to improve productivity and our sales ratio. Second, we
will empower our partner ecosystem to go big in the mid-market. By that, we are expanding this
highly profitable sales channel and pushing our future growth. Third, to get even more steam
behind our land-and-expand strategy, we are overhauling our commercials, including how we
package our solutions. This will go hand-in-hand with revised incentive structures for our
colleagues in sales.
Let me tell you, Q3 was not only a successful quarter in terms of customers and growth, but also
in terms of innovation. This was very evident at TechEd, our technology and developer
conference. Let me share some highlights with you, starting with Joule. Our digital co-pilot just
celebrated its first birthday, and we announced a major, major upgrade. We are supercharging
Joule with collaborative AI agents. Most AI agents are fit to perform only one type of task in sales,
in HR, in supply chain. But however, many key processes cut across departments. Financial
predictions for instance involve data from sales, supply chain management, HR, and other
functions.
Joule will soon be able to orchestrate several AI agents to carry out such complex processes
end-to-end. That's possible, because SAP speaks the language of all corporate functions. We are
not trapped in one silo. So while many in the software industry talk about AI agents these days, I
can assure you Joule will be the champion of them all. So far, we have added over 500 skills to
Joule, and we are well on track to cover 80% of the most frequent business and analytical
transactions by the end of this year. And in Q3 alone, several hundred customers licensed Joule.
Our progress was also accelerating with regard to the other elements of our AI architecture. Well
ahead of time, we reached a goal to embed over 100 AI use cases across our solutions. And theGen AI hub, consumption by our partners more than tripled from Q2 to Q3. And even better, the
consumption by our customers quadrupled.
Finally, there was one more thing at TechEd with regard to business AI, something we worked on
since a few years. We announced the SAP Knowledge Graph. The Knowledge Graph captures
decades of business process knowledge and allows Gen AI to deeply understand SAP systems
with regard to structure data, the tables, the connections. That in turn enables Gen AI to provide
much more relevant, reliable, and context-sensitive answers. It will allow Joule, for example, to
carry out the complex tasks I just mentioned.
The Knowledge Graph will and is a real game-changer in our industry, and we are the first to
accomplish it at this scale. We have had a bit of an unfair advantage of course. We can rely on
decades of domain know-how and the wealth of data in SAP system.
So in summary, Q3 was another strong quarter for SAP, revenue growth accelerated and our
profitability continued to develop very positively. Against this background, we are confidently
raising our outlook for 2024. We are now expecting an operating profit of EUR7.8 billion to EUR8
billion. And we are also happy to confirm that we are on track towards our revised 2025 financial
ambitions with continuous double-digit total revenue and operating profit growth in the years to
come.
And with that, over to you, Dominik.
`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Christian, and thank you all for joining us this evening.
We have successfully navigated another quarter despite the ongoing complexities of the
macroeconomic environment. Demand for our solutions remained solid in Q3, driving steady
expansion of our current cloud backlog and strong cloud revenue growth, which grew by 29% and
27% year-over-year respectively. In Q3, deals exceeding EUR5 million accounted for more than
60% of cloud order entry, reflecting continued confidence in our offerings and strategic direction.
The continued disciplined execution of our transformation program, combined with a slower than
anticipated ramp in our hiring activities, contributed to exceptional growth in non-IFRS operating
profit and a significant increase in free cash flow. Our investments in business AI are also starting
to show positive results, creating new opportunities and deepening customer engagement. Now,
with the added capabilities of WalkMe, we are able to further improve workflow execution and
user experience, positioning SAP well to deliver unparalleled value to our stakeholders.
Let me now go into further details regarding our financial highlights. Current cloud backlog
reached EUR15.4 billion, up 29%. Absent the first-time inclusion of WalkMe, CCB growth would
have remained virtually flat compared to the prior quarter. Cloud revenue grew by 27%, fueled by
the sustained strength of our Cloud ERP Suite, which saw another impressive quarter with an
increase of 36%. This marks the 11th consecutive quarter of Cloud ERP Suite growth in the 30s,
now representing approximately 84% of total cloud revenue. Even absent the first-time inclusion
of an approximately EUR15 million revenue contribution of WalkMe, cloud revenue would have
accelerated by 1 percentage points sequentially.
Software license revenue showed remarkable resilience with a decrease of only 14% in the
quarter. Finally, total revenue was EUR8.5 billion in Q3, up 10% year-over-year. This performance
was primarily driven by the strength in cloud revenue and demonstrates how the positive revenue
mix effect is driving gradual acceleration in our top-line.Now, let's take a brief look at our regional performance. In the third quarter, SAP's cloud revenue
performance was particularly strong in APJ and EMEA and robust in the Americas region. Brazil,
Chile, Germany, Italy, India, Japan, and Spain had outstanding performances in cloud revenue
growth, while China, Saudi Arabia, and the U.S. were particularly strong.
Now, moving on to the bottom-line. Our non-IFRS cloud gross profit increased by 28%. This was
supported by an improvement in cloud gross margin from the year-ago period, expanding by 0.6
percentage points to 73.7%. IFRS operating profit in the third quarter was up 29% to EUR2.2
billion. Finally, non-IFRS operating profit rose by 28% to EUR2.2 billion.
Operating profit growth was mainly driven by strong revenue growth as well as disciplined
execution of the 2024 transformation program. Basic non-IFRS earnings per share in the quarter
increased 6% to EUR1.23. The IFRS effective tax rate for Q3 was 33% and the non-IFRS tax rate
was 33.4%.
Now, on to our cash generation. Free cash flow for Q3 increased in nominal terms by 44% to
EUR1.2 billion. With approximately EUR3 million were paid out for restructuring, the positive
development was primarily attributable to the increased profitability and lower tax payments. And
for the first nine months, free cash flow was up 47% to EUR5 billion.
Now, let's move on to our outlook. As you've seen in today's release, we're increasing our 2024
outlook for cloud and revenue -- cloud and software revenue, operating profit and free cash flow,
which we are adjusting to reflect our updated expectations.
While Q3 was another solid quarter in terms of cloud bookings, we would like to remind everyone
that Q4 is typically our largest quarter and performance here will be crucial in achieving our full
year targets and our 2025 ambition, which remains unchanged for now. It's essential that we stay
focused on executing our strategic initiatives and managing through evolving market conditions.
You've also seen that we now expect to end the year at a slightly higher headcount than last year,
including the colleagues joining us from WalkMe. This year-end headcount will still include a few --
will still include a few thousand colleagues who will leave the company as part of the
transformation program on January 1, 2025. For additional details, please refer to our quarterly
statement published earlier today on our Investor Relations website.
So in summary, in Q3, we were yet again able to prove our resilience and strategic execution on
all fronts. We continue to help our customers navigate their digital transformation journeys to the
cloud. As a result, we are on track to achieve or overachieve all of our financial KPIs guided in our
outlook at the beginning of this year and are further solidifying the trajectory towards our
ambition 2025, as well as accelerated revenue growth through 2027.
Thank you and we will now be happy to take your questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions). One moment for the first question, please. We'll take our first question from Michael
Briest with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, UBS Limited `Thank you very much. Good evening. Just I think, Dominik, you called out the very strong
contribution of large deals this quarter. I think it was over 60% of the order intake, it's normally
about 50% in a Q3. Can you say about the total volume of deals today up year-on-year and what
the pipeline looks like for Q4? And your messaging around the sort of volatile conditions, can you
characterize whether the environment is the same as it was when you started the quarter, or are
things getting a bit more challenging? And then just, Christian, very quickly on the 30% of deals
with AI, can you talk to maybe the price uplift that you're realizing on that? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I'll have the first stab at the 60%, I mean, what we do observe is really the kind of installed
base large enterprises turning with great momentum. So here, we really see the flywheel
spinning. So that explains the strong momentum we have there, which gives us, of course,
tremendous stability, because that kind of installed base is only partially tapped into and even the
ones who are already on the right journey have not fully converted the installed base on-prem
onto cloud. So I think that's the point we want to make here. I think on the demand environment, I
think, probably Christian is better suited to comment, plus the AI question.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Look, I mean, clearly, Michael, I mean, of course, we hear a lot about macroeconomic
challenges. And I mean, look at our home market in Germany, I mean, definitely the economy has
its challenges. But still I would say after Q4, there's rarely a DAX 40 company left who is not yet
on the move to the cloud with SAP and RISE. And especially in Germany, Dominik and I also had
today a few customer calls. I mean, when you are in a transformation, no matter if it's in the
chemical industry or on the auto industry, actually we see no slowdown. I mean, they really see
our Cloud ERP Suite as the only way to restructure their portfolio, to transform to new business
models, and of course, also to drive productivity.
So when I can trust my business AI with regard to the predictive forecast for Q4, I'm actually, we
are positive. And now still, of course, as every year, there is a huge order entry to close, and
that's every year the same. So yes, let's get the execution done in the next 2.5 months, but then
I'm confident.
And on the 30% of the AI use cases, yes, absolutely. I mean, the ones which I'm mentioning, they
all come with upside. First of all, with value for the customers. I mean, this is in sourcing, in supply
chain, in manufacturing, these are the areas where I would say we see with regard to embedded
AI, the strongest uptick, and all that comes with our premium RISE offering or with GROW. And so,
yes, there is good upside, but the good news is also there. I mean, in all 30% of the deals, I
mean, I mentioned Mercado Libre, they are starting now with some use cases, but by far not with
everyone.
So we also see here the land-and-expand motion in the quarters to come. And then when you
see that the innovation pipeline is now also accelerating with regard to embedded AI, the Gen AI
hub and Joule, I mean, by -- see, we will also see an expansion of the business AI footprint in the
customers where we already landed.
Operator
Our next question is from the line of Adam Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam D. Wood, Morgan Stanley & Co. `Hi. Good evening. Thanks very much for taking the question. First of all, congrats on the quarter,
very strong again. Can I just ask, you alluded to the management changes during the call, and
obviously, we've got around 10% of the workforce leaving through the year. And Christian, you
also talked about the salesforce reorganization. Could you just talk a little bit about how you're
managing the risks of making sure that the reorganization doesn't cause disruption you said
you're going now into a fourth quarter, whether there's a lot of business to close, but culturally
what you're doing to make sure things don't skip through the cracks and you're able to close the
deals that you need.
And maybe just quickly, free cash flow, Dominik, a very, very strong quarter. Could you just talk a
little bit about how much of that is structural changes and improvements that we should expect to
continue and how much is maybe one-off things from working capital that are great to come in,
but maybe not repeatable every year? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I can start with regard to the management changes and also the outlook for the next year on
growth, on cloud growth and the execution risk you're mentioning. I mean, first, let me clearly
again state here, I mean, Scott and Julia did a fabulous job in transforming SAP to the state where
we are. And I guess today's results are also a proof of the great job we as a team have done
over the last years. Now, Adam, the good piece is when you look into the planning for next year,
how we then assemble our bookings closest first, what do we have still in the tank for RISE?
And then you can see out of the EUR11 billion of maintenance, I mean, one-fourth of the
customers have started that transformation journey, but there is a ramp. So even in the one-
fourth of the customers who are on that journey, there is potential left. And I mentioned here
some customers in the past who are deeply in the journey and on the journey to the public cloud
suite, like in Exxon and others. And they are now ramping up, ramping, ramping, ramping. And
they are very satisfied with the way how we use this methodology to transform and then over
time drive adoption, and of course, high value for the company.
Then second, net you. So this is with GROW, a huge uptick. And I see there even further potential
I come in a second to that. Then the land-and-expand cost cell. I mean, when you look into a
typically ECC system, we were good in finance, procurement, supply chain manufacturing, but
very transactional. Now in the cloud, I mean, when you look at demand and supply chain planning,
workforce planning, sales based, not profile based. When you look into omni-channel, order
volume, high billing scenarios, these are all things which we didn't even offer at the ECC.
So you also see there is no question anymore about value. There is a ton of value to do this, not
only the speed and the agility, what you get with the cloud SaaS offerings of SAP, but also with the
capabilities. And so that is also offering is once we land it, for example, on finance, we are now
making sure that we land in VC next and kick some of the best of breed players out. Then we go
to sourcing, then we go to supply chain, because sourcing needs to be connected to
manufacturing.
Now with regard to the execution risk, look, I have to say I'm very close to, of course, some of the
large deals. I mean, I'm of course, talking to our top customers frequently. I also want to feel the
pulse of how our product portfolio works? How we also position the value? And now I had just
had the team together, marketing, the sales leadership, and our services leadership and for
some days, and we really talked through about what can we do more, not in the here and now.
Next year, we are seeing a really good, healthy pipeline, but what is about in two or three years?
How can we expand the channel? We have a huge mid-market where we still, where we canthem sell the suite, give them territories, give them more demand coming from marketing, via
our digital channels, which are way better than two years ago.
And then second, when you talk about direct pop at the top of the house, what can we do better
on value engineering with less roles, but better architects, even better specialists, really to foster
the land-and-expand opportunity I just talked about, and then with more targeted incentives, as
this is something that we all know matters in sales. So these are just some examples. So I'm on it
and we are on it. And I'm very confident the team is strong. The team really sees the massive
opportunities in the years ahead. Everyone is excited. And for Q4, of course, all hands on deck
and we are good, we are confident.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Fred Boulan with BofA. Please go ahead. Fred, your line is
now open.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yes. Thank you. So, first of all, on the cloud momentum, so Cloud ERP Suite accelerated quite
significantly in the quarter. I don't know if you can comment on any specific drivers there. And then
from a CCB perspective, are you trading ahead of your target? Are you still confident? And can
you share a little bit the scenarios around the 27% guidance for this year? I mean, I know some
commentary around the macro, but at the same time, a little of the bullishness. So it'd be good
to get some of the different dynamics here at play.
And then secondly, around gross margin, if you can spend a moment on your outlook here in
cloud gross margin in particular, what's the outlook considering? Probably cloud traction still
remains pretty long, but improving mix of services, infrastructure, so any of it there would be
great. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, talking about the Cloud ERP, where is the strong growth coming from? I mean, of course,
as we also mentioned on some of the customer wins, you see some of the largest customers
also now making the move to RISE. It really depends a little bit on the industry if the customers
prefer to start with a manufacturing, with the shop floor transformation, or if they go with finance
and HR first. Commerce is obviously a strong area. And then, end-to-end. And then over time,
even for the existing customers, we see really healthy upsell and also this quarter where we can
deliver value and then expand the footprint over time.
Second, the net new was also very strong, especially in the area of HR, finance, where we
typically land also in the first step. And then last but not least, I mean, let's also not
underestimate, our platform. I mean, also the ecosystem is much more into this now that we not
only integrate our suite, but we also extend our suite. Developing own IP, not customizing the ERP
anymore, but building extensions, innovative apps for the different verticals of our customers.
And so that is also, of course, charging the really great growth we have seen in Q3.
And then on macro versus pipeline, I mean, look -- I mean, without any doubt, also when you look
at some of the numbers our peers have delivered, we are actually seeing an ongoing strong
momentum. The pipeline, again, the cover, which is healthy. But again, before we are now
jumping into 2025, let us first deliver Q4. It's a big quarter. It's naturally a big quarter. And when
once we have closed Q4, we will see each other again in January, and then we will give you also a
guidance for 2025.On gross margin, maybe one last piece. As I also mentioned before, the cloud transformation,
the underlying measures we have taken is now clearly taken off. I mean, it was the right decision
to centralize our cloud operations. It's with Thomas Saueressig. The lifecycle management of the
apps gets harmonized. We are rolling out the cloud version of HANA, much more scale, better
TCO, better resiliency.
And of course, we're also working with the hyperscales. I mean, we have with RISE and on the
cloud infrastructure, we have really, some really strong measures. We are driving to further
optimize, not only performance, but again, also the scalability of HANA Cloud running on the
hyperscaler infrastructure. But of course, also on the data side, we are doing several things to
further improve both performance as well as the scalability of our stack. And so -- and that will
also lead to a very healthy expansion of our gross margins in 2025. And with the uptake of our
suite and the land-and-expand and really running all of these solutions on a multi-tenant
infrastructure, we are actually very confident that we also can expand our gross margin, especially
in 2025.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
And maybe even one comment, and there was still an open question on free cash flow, whether
that's a structural topic or just more of a phasing topic. I'd say it appears to be more of a phasing
topic. Nevertheless, the underlying performance is quite solid. I mean, you've seen us increase
the guidance at the midpoint by EUR250 million. We have not deliberately not changed the cash
flow outlook for 2025. We've raised it in the last quarterly communication.
But of course, the current cash performance helps us further solidify our outlook. We're going to
move in the very near future, in January, from a kind of ambition 2025 to an outlook 2025. And of
course, we want to make sure that we have the typical kind of high-quality, high confidence level
on whenever we guide the outlook. So I think there is more confidence level than what we usually
have in kind of mid to long-term ambition.
Now, on the CCB growth, I want to add that we do still see quite some significant headwind from
the transactional business. Actually, our transactional business has, if anything, declined mid-
single-digit percentage point. So the macro is very much felt at SAP, too. But on the other side,
you see that Cloud ERP Suite growth was roaring at 36% despite that headwind.
And it's also important to keep that in mind for the bridge from CCB into cloud revenue growth. I
mean, from the midpoint '25 to our ambition -- sorry, midpoint '24 -- outlook '24 to the ambition
2025 target of EUR21.5 billion, if you take the ForEx into account, we need about 26.5% cloud
revenue growth, which is almost there yet. There is a very, very minor impact from our WalkMe
acquisition on cloud revenues. I think if disclosed, it is EUR14 million in the Q3, so it's very, very
little. By the way, we've also -- a little bit of a headwind from losses we absorb in the integration,
but that's completely absorbed by other outperformance.
And on the CCB, we have initially said that we will exit the year 2020 -- exit the year 2024 at a
similar level as a prior year, which was 27%. And actually, if you want to be at 26.5%, and even if
you have a very adverse scenario on transaction revenue in your head, which is not necessarily a
default assumption, and you have probably not more or certainly not more than 1 percentage
point dilution. So as soon as you are at 27.5%, you're pretty much secured for next year's
ambition.
So this is a little bit the framework how to triangulate into next year. So it's just on the right
trajectory for hitting our ambition. And also on the cloud gross margin, as already commented bymargin and you kind of almost linearly extrapolate from eliminating the noise of any given quarter,
you see that the kind of 75% is exactly what's in the cart. So I feel that what we've printed, so to
speak, in Q3 is now nicely triangulating with the ambition 2025, so it all fits together very, very
nicely.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Jackson Ader, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Q - `Jackson Ader, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Great. Thanks for taking our questions, guys. First one is on just your current assessment of, I
guess, the risks or due to some of the investigations that are underway in the U.S. related to the
practices with government agencies. And then can you size how large your U.S. federal business
is in terms of the mix of the overall business? Thanks.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I have a stab at that. Yes. First of all, there's actually not really new news on this one, but
maybe for the benefit of everyone here, a small kind of reminder of what has happened. First of
all, for many years, and I'd say like many other tech companies, we've been serving U.S.
governmental entities via the typical reselling partners such as Carahsoft, so that's really common
industry practice. Now, in August 2022, we received a so-called civil investigative demand, so CID,
from the U.S. Department of Justice, and that involved us and Carahsoft and others. And since
then, we have fully been cooperating with the DoJ, and we plan to continue to do so, of course.
Now, in September, this year, there was a search of the Carahsoft offices by the FBI, and I say by
now we can say that we are really confident that this has nothing to do with our case here. And
we have actually gotten assurance in writing by Carahsoft that the FBI search was completely
unrelated to SAP and NS2, as well as to the DoJ civil investigative demand from 2022, so this is a
different story. And of course, we continue to be fully committed to ensuring that our sales
practices combine with all applicable regulations, so this is all I can say at this stage and that's the
status we currently have.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And look also the relationship with the U.S. public sector like the DoD and other agencies, I mean,
remain strong, intact, and as Dominik just said, I mean, the recent investigations have nothing to
do with the case started two years ago. And with regard to the size, I mean, obviously next to
Germany, the U.S., strong in Australia and the UK, it's actually sort of the same size like we see in
other countries. But also there, I mean, in all public sectors, I have to say, I mean, this was clearly
the part of the customer base which took some time with the move to the cloud, but now also
with the buildup of sovereign clouds, we see strong momentum in many countries in the world.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
And you recall the U.S. is about a third of our revenue base, and then if you apply a typical kind of
government agency ratio which is certainly a small fraction of that, you see that kind of we talk
about low-single-digit revenue contribution. But again, that's still an extremely appealing market
we might fight for going forward.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Mohammed Moawalla with Goldman Sachs.Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Goldman Sachs International `
Yes. Hi, Christian. Hey, Dominik, and congrats on the quarter. Now, two from me. The first one,
Christian, you talked a lot about the kind of line of business portfolio and the opportunity to kind
of cross and upsell into the base even as customers sort of migrate to kind of S/4 in the cloud.
Can you talk about the specific domains and the kind of runway you have still to go in the installed
base to kind of drive some of that uplift? And then secondly, Dominik, your comments around the
transaction revenue, outside of the kind of transaction revenue, have you seen any kind of impact
in terms of closing the business around close rates or kind of migrations perhaps impacting the
CCB or being a headwind around CCB or is that kind of continuing to evolve as you expected?
Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. With regard to your first question, I mean, last week with the whole leadership team, we
really deep dive into the installed base and into our land-and-expand strategy. And I have to say,
it's remarkable the kind of growth which has gotten us to today's state and the strong Q3
performance. But when you look at the metrics and when you look how we go to market today,
I'm so convinced there's much more upside for us and why we land our customers in the cloud.
Typically, they start with finance. Today, you have to imagine we have our finance sellers, we have
Ariba, we have Concur, but they're all serving the finance community. Why not connecting them
much better? Why not giving them the cross-sell incentives to break these silos?
When you talk about when you land with sourcing, you have to have also the order management
and the billing in place. Vice versa, if you do direct procurement with our S/4HANA finance
solution, why not actually building one procurement platform with Ariba? And so we want to break
these silos and we want to connect the dots around the business processes of our customers.
And when we see how many cross-sell potential we have in our HR installed base, in finance, in
spend, in CX, in supply chain, this is massive.
And then our resellers always sold the suite in the on-premise days. Today, we have resellers for
finance, for procurement, for Concur. They are for sure can do the same like they did in the on-
premise days. Let them capture the mid-market by enabling our resellers cross, bring our partner
teams together, enable them to sell the suite, to sell business processes. There is for sure
upside. And then last but not least, when you look into the installed base and still see the
complexity and customers built into their ERPs, there's much more upside also with the SIs with
regard to certifications, enablement, and be also a little bit more prescriptive in the way how we
build certain things on the platform, which then also gives us upside in the installed base. And
these are just three levers.
In the marketing side, we are doing a lot to excite the CIOs. But I'm also convinced we can do a
bit less and then we can also expand our footprint to the other buying centers, yes, and then
connect the LOB events we are driving and really show them also the benefits of the suite. When
you're looking at the CFO, the CFO should be happy when he sees how SAP can connect the
financial planning with the HR planning and the supply chain planning. Just met a CFO of a large
U.S. customer, he didn't even know how we can run end-to-end planning, and today, he has a lot
of best-of-breed with a lot of data integration layers on top, because everything is stuck in silos.
And this is something what we can even do -- even much better than what we do today. And this
is the upside we are talking about.
Of course, needless to say that only one-fourth of our customers started now that transformation
and that journey to the cloud. So there's also per se upside also coming from our on-premiseinstalled base, which we are then adding on top to the points I just mentioned.
And look, I mean maybe one last piece, it's -- I know that maybe some of you see this as a risk, I
see this as a great opportunity to have the team together for some months. I mean I know the
team and I actually also quite confident that we know how to connect the dots. And so I can make
also now fast decisions with the team push the transformation forward. And I guess the team also
feels now how the different elements of our go-to-market structure now comes together. So I'm
actually really excited about the work we are currently doing with the team on our transformation
and the kind of upside we are just building for the years to come.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
(inaudible) transaction revenues and CCB development, I mean the only thing to call out on CCB
Q4 is that it's more difficult problems, we have integrated last year, the acquisition of LeanIX, so
that makes it a little bit harder to kind of generate the growth in CCB. And then there's a huge
booking quarter in Q4. Of course, we try as well as we can this quarter. But this is the only thing I
want to call out. Otherwise, it's a very normal development I would say.
And on transaction revenues, it's the most kind of cyclically sensitive parts of it, in particular
temporary workforce which are suffering most. It's not surprising in the current macro backdrop.
So we would anticipate that as soon as macro is kind of becoming a little bit more conducive that
would also recover. And then let's not forget at the end of the transformation on our business
network there is opportunities to resuscitate growth once we have gone through this phase of
transforming the business model. As you know, we have basically waived fees for suppliers and
that has been reducing revenue run rates, but now we also see the snapback effect from higher
onboarding numbers and that should bode well for resuscitation of growth. But again as I
mentioned we think we are actually prepared for continued pressure on that side, if need be, by
very strong CCB.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein.
Q - `Mark L. Moerdler, Bernstein `
Thank you so much for taking my question, and congratulations on a strong quarter. If you don't
mind, I'm going to ask each of you a question. Dominik, can you give us any color on how you
think about gen AI, whether it's going to have any negative impacts on cloud gross margins,
especially as it becomes more used in scale? And then, Christian, given macro concerns about
large complex projects, can you give any color on how the ECC customers are starting to move
to S/4 and cloud? Is the rate in line with prior expectations? Are they planning to directly move to
the cloud? I really appreciate. Thanks.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, if you look at ambition 2025, we see a continuous expansion in line with the
improvements we've shown in prior years. And I'd say, really, the more gradual improvement,
which is more due to economies of scale than the one-off strong improvements we have been
reaping by virtue of the cloud convergence project, which was a big transformation project. So
now, of course, the kind of initial ramp of our AI activities already reflected in that.
I think beyond years 2025, so if you look into 2026, 2027, it's kind of speculative on where exactly
that will move the gross margin, because, frankly, the pricing is still in flux. We see how much ofthat will kind of be accretive versus or out of normal offering, and -- but it will definitely add
incremental gross profit. I mean, our focus is very much on maximizing the growth on the
absolute gross profit we drive, because that was ultimately drive free cash flow and the company
valuation. So we're not too hung up about the margin itself. But for 2025, there is no kind of risks
out of that, I would say.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And with regard to large enterprises, large projects, ERP projects in the context of today's market
environment, look, Mark, I'm so, so happy to see that finally RISE is the kind of methodology
offering what I always aspired it has to be. Today, large customers like today, the one we had in
the morning with Dominik, really asked SAP to really give our best practices from 20,000
customers in their industry to really get the complexity out of their business processes.
And so these large customers clearly understood, when I really want to transform, it's not about
putting my ERP on a cloud infrastructure. It's about the business processes first. And actually, the
cloud is also giving SAP and the customer, the discipline, to get the complexity out of the
business processes and the differentiation with AI, with the vertical extensions we build, but we
don't customize. We drive discipline, we drive productivity.
And now when we look at the methodology and then how we can measure the custom code,
how we can support these projects and really giving them the productivity numbers before and
after and giving them the statutes, I mean, this is great. And then obviously it's on the customer,
as I said earlier, Mike. I mean, no one goes in and says, hey, I do it all at once. I mean, this would
completely overload every IT organization on the planet. But what we've been saying is, hey,
where is your highest pressure? Is it in the front? Is it in the supply chain? Is it in the core
processes of your back offices? And then we go in and then we have the architects. We have our
partners with us and we have the customer at the table.
And I have to say the methodology now is really proven and customers come to us and ask us,
please challenge us, challenge us SAP to really get the complexity out of the business process
and give us your best practices. When we see that you are running NVIDIA, when we see that you
are running Amazon, when you see that you are running the largest customers on this planet
while also supporting some unicorns to scale around the planet, you have this knowledge what
we need to transform. And that is the sentiment what we are seeing. So despite the macro, we
see a very, very high interest to move forward. And this has -- of course, there is an end of
maintenance. But clearly, clearly, clearly, clearly, it's the value and the need to transform is clearly
the number one driver for our cloud goals.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Sven Merkt, Barclays Capital with Barclays.
Q - `Sven Merkt, Barclays Capital `
Good evening. Thanks for taking my questions and congratulations on the great quarter. Maybe
first, can you provide us a bit more color on the support revenues? First, why did the support
revenues decline less in Q3 than in Q2? And secondly, how should this trend from here based on
what you see in the cloud migration pipeline, should we see a visible acceleration, decline of
support revenues over the coming quarters? And then it would be also great if you could
comment just if there's anything specific we should take maybe into account around the cost for
Q4 as the implied Q4 operating profit guidance looks very conservative, especially at the low
end. Thank you.A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, on software support, indeed, you're right. On constant currency, the growth was
minus 2%. And I think it's a kind of very gradual decline, obviously. I mean, this is a hugely
diversified portfolio across customers, regions, even according to the phasing of the
transformation, as Christian described, how they roll over from the on-premise state into the
cloud.
So if there is a percentage point up or down on any given quarter, it's more noise around the
trend line. And the trend line will gradually see accelerating decline because more and more
growth, which bodes well, on the other hand, for the cloud revenues. And it's quite intuitive. If you
want to kind of continue to sustain the high growth numbers on Cloud ERP Suite, you need
basically to beat a bigger and bigger base. And for that, you need to convert more and more
maintenance base.
And of course, if you have only penetrated, so to speak, as Christian had mentioned before, a
quarter of the installed base, and then are paying both the maintenance of certain instances and
on instances they have already converted the cloud revenues as this basis growth, and then the
cannibalization will also grow. That's just mathematics. So it will be a very gradual decline.
Now, a good question on the Q4. You said cost development. I would put it a little bit larger. It's
kind of the operating profit development. And the biggest factor in there is actually what we have
been kind of embedding on software. And you recall that we were a little bit kind of careful in
software for the full year guidance. Now, especially Q3 was, as I mentioned in my introductory
comments, extremely resilient. And we had only as little as last year's decline of what's 14%, I
think, constant currencies. And that's way below what we think is a kind of normal rate there. And
so we have made the assumption that's more of a phasing topic.
Also, we really want to be well-protected in terms of making sure that any distraction from the
transformation that Christian describes is not hitting our cloud business, but if anything, the
software business, because this is where we are most vulnerable if we close a deal by end of the
year or not. So we have been really prudent on that and said, okay, it's not clear if we will be able
to have such a back-end loaded software business as last year, last year at 38% of the total
license income in Q4. This year, we have kind of dialed it down to about 42% or so. So that's still a
significant number, but we also wanted to keep it manageable given all the disruption we are
currently going through in the transformation.
So that's a 250 million-ish ticket, how do I calculate that? I look at last year's 6% decline, and then
I look at how much gross margin loss you have if you decline by 6%. And then I look at the kind of
implied much higher decline in Q4 this year, which shaves off much more profit, frankly.
And then the other topic is, frankly, some phasing topics on cost. We have a little bit of a back-
end loaded employee bonus programs. We've also decided to increase the matching share for
Q4 for the program, which is called own SAP, where our employees get a kind of a subsidy to buy
shares. We really wanted to use the strong momentum in the business to make more of them
participate while also avoiding that stock-based compensation goes through the roof and contain
that.
And we also have the inclusion of the WalkMe business. Now, you've seen that in Q3, that was
dilutive at the tune of EUR14 million losses because of the losses they have on integration costs.
That's post-stock-based compensation again. And then there is the delay ramp we are going to
re-ramp. So if you put it all together, it gets you actually a number kind of around EUR400 million,which is kind of explaining the bridge from Q3 to Q4, the deceleration on the year-on-year
growth.
And what it all means for next year is we're not going to change or touch the EUR10.2 billion non-
adverse operating profit guidance for next year, because we think that's not quite the right thing
to do. Right now, we are really solidly on track on delivering that. And as I mentioned, we really
want to convert that kind of ambition into something really solid with an outlook we are going to
give in January.
Operator
Our last question comes from the line of `Toby Ogg, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. with J.P. Morgan.
Q - `Toby Ogg, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. `
Yes. Hi. Thanks for squeezing me in. A couple of questions. Just on the backlog growth of 29, just
wanted to double-check the contribution to the year-over-year growth there from WalkMe and
whether there was actually any slight organic acceleration in the backlog there versus the '28 in
Q2. And then just on the goo-market, Christian, you mentioned a number of factors earlier on in
the call. What changes have already been made and already been implemented? And what
changes are still to come? And out of those changes, which ones do you think are the biggest
needle-movers and the most important ones? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
I'll start with CCB.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
So I said in my introductory comments that the CCB growth excluding, so absent the first-time
inclusion of WalkMe was virtually flat. So it is indeed the 1 percentage point increase is largely
stemming from the inclusion of WalkMe. By the way, I already want to mention at this point that
we are not going to be able to really comment quarter-by-quarter on how that will evolve going
forward. Why? Because we also have a cannibalization effect on a business which is called enable
now, which is doing very much what WalkMe is doing. But given that WalkMe is a much broader
and better offering, we are kind of phasing that out and displacing it with WalkMe. So this is why
it's a little bit blurry. We also had some Sonex business on WalkMe, which is cannibalizing the
revenues to some degree. So we'll see a counter effect, so to speak, in the transformation phase
when we integrate WalkMe.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I looked at them on the go-to-market. I mean, again, after a very strong Q3 order entry and
a very healthy pipeline for Q4, obviously, I don't want to now change the operating model of our
go-to-market in Q4. But starting January, what you're going to see is, first of all, the massive
expansion of our volume business, starting with marketing on the digital, connecting this to
territories which are partner-owned, and then fully automated, no touch. I mean, something what
we never had at this scale. And of course, we're also then expecting the partners to invest more
into SAP, which they all signaled they will do. There's a very great momentum in the ecosystembecause we don't want to go too deep with our direct sales team into these mid-market
territories anymore.
Second, what I also mentioned around the land-and-expand. We will change a little bit the line of
business setup we are having today, finance spend, let's combine that. Let's also have the cross-
sell incentives and the cross-enablement in place to really harvest that. We have thousands of
employees, central customers, so why can't they not do next-step finance and connect the teams
to joint account planning to various measures, yes, to really expand the footprint in our installed
base with regard to the cloud suite of SAP.
And then last but not least, what we are then also going to see is we will on all fronts also try
some further measures on getting more productivity out of our go-to-market model. There are
various measures in place, but again, this will kick off in January after we hopefully close another
strong quarter for SAP in the cloud.
A - `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Christian, Dominik, and this concludes our call for today. Thank you very
much for joining.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Goodbye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now concluded and you may disconnect your
telephone. Thank you for joining and have a pleasant day. Goodbye.