Q1 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Hello, everyone. Welcome to Toyota's First Quarter Earnings Results briefing. I am Kazuya Mikami,
the moderator of this conference. I would like to introduce our speakers, `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer,
Executive Vice President and CFO; and `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer:Accounting Group, Chief Officer, Accounting Group.
This conference will begin with a briefing by `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer on the press release corrective
orders issued to model certification applications announced yesterday, followed by Masahiro
Yamamoto explaining about the first quarter earning results and then we'll have a QA session.
For today's briefing, we have simultaneous interpretation of Japanese and English, and if you
would like to listen in English, please select English from the interpretation button at the bottom
of the screen. Please choose Japanese if you want to listen to it in Japanese. Interpretation of
Japanese and English will be provided. If you'd like to listen in English, please select the English
from the Interpretation button at the bottom of the screen.
Now I would like to hand over to Miyazaki.
`Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
This is Miyazaki speaking. Thank you very much for attending despite your occupied schedules
and you, -- as you well know yesterday from MLIT(ph) we have received a corrective order to
conduct the correct -- corrections for the root causes of the issues, and there were eight new
cases are indicated involving seven vehicles and our understanding is that the factors involved on
site factors and also managerial factors. So once again, taking this opportunity with the many
(Technical Difficulty) quarters, including the suppliers and the dealers. So we have caused a lot of
issue, concerns and troubles. So we'd like to take this opportunity to apologize.
And once again, we will take this opportunity to review our processes for the certification
processes and make sure to strengthen the foundations of all of this work such as the data
retention and recording and to make sure that the correct procedures are taken and after that as
we develop our corrective plans are -- preventive plans, we will submit that to MLIT and we will
also work on in parallel to train people and also to create the culture and for the vehicles Corolla
Fielder, Corolla Axio and Yaris Cross. It has been confirmed by MLIT that it is in compliance with
the standards. Therefore, from the 2nd shift of today, the shipment has resumed, -- will be
resumed from the 2nd shift of today. And in addition there were indications for Noah and Voxy
and we had suspended shipments from July 29th, but also for these two models, so we willresume from the second shift of today, resume the shipments and we will be, -- since it has been
confirmed that it's in compliance with the standards Corolla Fielder, Corolla Axio and Yaris Cross,
they are the vehicles that are suspending the shipments. But once the production resumes, then
the shipments of the -- these vehicles that are waiting for shipment will also be resumed.
Therefore, it will be probably the beginning of September. And for the other models that has
been indicated, we have confirmed with the overseas authorities and received that -- the
confirmation that there are no problems. So, those will be shipped as production will and shipping
will be continued.
And the next will be from our Chief Officer of Accounting Yamamoto to explain about our
financial results.
`Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer:Accounting Group `
So allow me to talk about the financial results. So just a few points in the beginning. So we have
here the amount, the volume has come down. And there are some cost improvement activities
and we are looking at an operating income of about JPY1.3 trillion. And we would like to up show
our appreciation to all of these stakeholders worldwide. So there has been many issues in terms
of certification and it was very difficult when we achieved an increase in practice despite. Such
issues that we have had and we thank the support of all our stakeholders, including the suppliers
and dealers. We will firmly strengthen our foundation and proactively invest in human resources
as well as in the future. So we did say that the operating income is JPY1.3 trillion and for the full-
year forecast remains unchanged. So let us talk about the first quarter financial performance.
Now about the consolidated vehicle sales compared to the previous period, we are at 2,252,000
units, which is 96.8% of the consolidated vehicle sales for the same period of the previous year.
And for Toyota and Lexus, it is 2.491 million units, which was 98.1% compared to last year. Sales
and production volume decreased in Japan due to factors such as efforts to strengthen our
foundation, and you can see that it is at 98.1%. However, sales in North America, Europe and Asia
have increased. In addition, the proportion of electrified vehicles increased, especially with
hybrids where mainly the strong performance is in overseas and it is at 43.2%.
Consolidated financial results. If you look in the red box, sales revenue of JPY11,837.8 billion,
operating income JPY1,308.4 billion, income before income taxes JPY1,872.2 billion, Net Income
JPY1,333.3 billion. Now, factors which impact operating income year-on-year. So from the left,
effect of foreign exchange rate increased operating income by JPY370 billion cost reduction
efforts. So increased operating income by JPY55 billion, this reflects JPY95 billion in the gross
effect of cost reduction efforts and JPY40 billion on strengthening foundation of suppliers and
materials. Marketing efforts increased operating income by JPY70 billion due to improvements in
model mix through an increase in the ratio of HEVs, expansion of the value chain and also price
revision efforts.
An increase in expenses decreased operating income by JPY225 billion due to such factors as an
increase in labor cost and R&D expenses, and for other factors, decreased operating income by
JPY82.5 billion. As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rate, so valuation --
gains and losses and other factors, operating income decreased by JPY100 billion year-on-year.
To enhance the attractiveness of the automotive industry, we will steadily promote -- providing
support for suppliers, dealer labor costs, improving the environment for employees and for the
growth of the future. So we do need to make future investments and move forward.
Now this slide shows the operating income by geographical region, you can have a look. And for
China, let me explain about our business in China as well as our financial service business.increase in sales expenses. Operating income in the financial services business increased year-
on-year largely due to the increase in loan balances. So this brings us to the end of our
presentation. Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
From here (Technical Difficulty) to open the floor to questions. If you have any questions, please
display your company name and your full name on the zoom screen and then press the raise
hand button on the screen. When we call your name, please unmute your line and start with your
questions. In order to receive as many questions from as many participants as possible, please
limit your question to one question per person. Thank you for your cooperation. And also, if you
participate by phone, we're not able to take questions from you since we won't be able to
identify your name. Thank you for your understanding. So if you have any questions, please use
the Raise Hand button on the screen. From Citigroup Securities, Yoshida Son(ph). We will be
connecting you there. Can you wait? So now I think we're connected. Yoshida Son, please.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you. My first question. Well, for the results of the first quarter, I'd like to hear your
assessment and for the price, especially the selling price, I think you were able to have a positive
contribution. But on the expenses, a JPY120 billion on the negative impact, it's quite a significant
impact. And including whether there is a one time item or not and also your full assessment for
the quarter 1 results. And for the full term, you have said that you're not going to make any
changes in the forecast, but after three months have ended, what kind of risk opportunities do
you see or any changes that you see that will be included in my question? I have a second
question and for the way of thinking, for -- in total your plan is to achieve 10(ph) million for
production. And probably first quarter it was about -- 2.36(ph) million, excuse me and quite a slow
start. So are you going to recover the pace of production or is it going to be difficult because
you're going to focus on these foundation solidifying efforts? For example, in U.S. Grand
Highlander, there is a recall and some part of the production has been suspended. Is this going to
develop into a large problem or so? I want to know what do you think is the feasibility of this
JPY10 million production plan?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
Thank you. Yoshida Son for your question. It's only three months that has passed and -- for the
fiscal year. But from an overall perspective, the production suspension in Japan, this had an
impact, -- a negative impact to the production operation for Toyota in Japan. But other than that
there has been the cost reduction efforts JPY95 billion, and this is thanks to the strong efforts by
the shop floor members and for the investments for the future, including the investment of -- for
people, we will be steadily implementing those investments and earlier I said for the 120 billion
area this was the expenses that has a negative impact, I think you had some worries about this
figure. If I go into the content, a one-time temporary impact item will be more on the accounting
calculation aside impact that is about JPY40 billion. So that would be more from a accounting
processing impact and other than that DX the digitalization information-related expenses, and
investments are included here. So it will be a accumulation of small items. Therefore, from the
perspective of a one-time item of so JPY40 billion in here on the right hand side. The others
areas are 112 billion(ph) for the those will be the also one-time impact.
And for the full term risk and opportunities that we foresee is what I'd like to talk about. For this
term, full term of the -- at the beginning, we have made a forecast of 10.4 million units. And what I
said is that if we are able to go after achieving -- over achieving this target, we will pursue thatopportunity. That is what I explained at the beginning and then for the consolidated vehicle, the
sales for the first quarter compared with last year, it is a minus 110,000 vehicles, that's the start
that we have. And for the breakdown, about half will be Daihatsu and the remaining half will be
Toyota cars. And for the Daihatsu part, originally we've had an estimation that there will be a
negative impact. So for us, it is within our expectation. But for Toyota side, the 50,000 up to
60,000 units that fell short of our plan for sales. Going forward in order to -- we thought that we
will be able to increase the sales, but at this point, we had a negative, so that is how I see it. So
this 10 million units or 10.4 million units rather than it becomes a negative probably for the
additional opportunities that we probably had over 10.4 million in the first quarter. That additional
possibility has been eaten up, but so that's how I see it.
And U.S. Grand Highlander, TX, Indiana production, those production are in suspension right now.
Curtain air shield airbags there are the intransparent or unclear situation that we foresee for the
supply, but for this 10.4 million production volume, we think that it is still in the range of an
achievable target. So this is how we see the target and we will be working -- continuing our plan.
Thank you very much.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
So you did answer my question on production. But for example, when you're thinking about
strengthening your foundation and say you want to decrease the volume 500 per day or make
sure that there's less overtime not working on during the weekends. I think those were some
activities you had since the beginning of the year. Now in Japan, if you want to recover a little bit
more in Japan because I think the demand is quite strong. So what change? For example, you
said 10.4 million. So that is something that you will achieve. But for the production of this 10
million, how should we see that?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
So we are looking at our production plan and as you say of this 10 million and as I said, we are
looking for where we can go more and we have been running the operations ever since the
beginning of the year. But as I said in Q1, we had lost some of that. But our operation we have
very small reallocations of where the production will be and if there is going to be some
overtime, there might be working on weekends so that we will be able to achieve the 10.4 million
target. As we strengthen our foundation, sometimes we talk about 30 minutes overtime, but this
is really for the strengthening of the foundation. But if we keep on doing it, we might lose our
focus. So first we have to strengthen our foundation and once we do that we want to take this
next step. So once everything is strengthened, we would bring it back to the normal operations,
also move forward in other areas so that we can focus towards the future.
Thank you, Yoshida . And next from Mizuho Securities, Ishiyama , please, will be connecting you
on the audio. I think you're connected now. Ishiyama, please.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Can you hear me?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
Yes, we do.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho SecuritiesThank you. So you said that we should limit ourselves to one question. So there'll be a broad
question about the strengthening your foothold. Now in the current fiscal year plan a JPY700
billion was included as a budget and for the first quarter, how much did you use? So I'd like to
confirm the number first and then Miyazaki San had commented that you're not going to be able
to continue the strengthening your foothold activities. So maybe it can be limited to just three. It's
only three months that has passed, you said. But in another way, you can see that three months
have already passed. So you foresee any plans to change the tax time or increase the tax time or
any other leveling up of the activities.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
So for the activities to strengthen our foothold, so JPY700 billion in total. And if you break this
out, a JPY380 billion will be the investment to people. And then for the future investment there
will be a JPY331 billion and for this JPY380 billion for the whole company at the supplier side,
there will be investments made to the people too and it's -- as I have explained it's like a JPY40
billion to JPY35 billion that will be used for to support for the suppliers. And after the second
quarter probably there will be more additional spending for these purposes also for our own
personnel, and the plant side, the logistics side, there are many kinds and activities that we are
planning. And overall, the JPY380 billion -- among the JPY380 billion, the amount that has already
been spent will actually be only about JPY40 billion. But when we look at last year's plan, excuse
me, so it's JPY330(ph) billion billion, excuse me, oh no, JPY380 billion, for the JPY380 billion --
for this part. The latest situation -- With the latest situation, we'll be reviewing to the latest plan.
And probably from this JPY380 billion, when we do our calculation at hand, we do see that
there's a possibility that we may increase about JPY50 billion for this budget. And so if there's a
possibility that this JPY380 billion may be increased or maybe decreased, we don't know how it
will turn out in the next nine months. But anyway for this JPY380 billion plus JPY50 billion is the
amount that we are seeing -- that we're expecting to make investment on -- to make
investments for people.
And I'd like to continue to talk about the production -- forecast of the production plan. And
currently, we have the -- continuing the conversation with the plant shop -- plants. And the plant
operation is gradually being calmed down and for natural disasters, quality issues, the impacts
are now improving. So gradually, the plant side will be going back to the normal operation state
and this is what we are targeting to do. For the timing when this will be, -- when this will happen?
So we will be discussing with the suppliers and if possible from around September gradually we
want to increase the level of the production level so that we're back to the more of a normal
average level. And if I say that maybe you may feel that we are going to end our activities to
strengthen the foundation, but for this activity to strengthen our foothold, it will continue. And as
we continue that in the background, we will find a appropriate timing to return the production
level to the usual level. And looking at the situation at each production line, we will be pulling up
the production level to the more normal level for us. And for this activity to strengthen our
foothold, this is an activity for the future. This is an activity so that we can prepare ourselves to
grow in the future and also to be able to make improvements in the network ratio. And if we --
And then when we are prepared, we will start to pull it up. So one of the milestones may be
around September. We will be looking at the situation at each production line in that timing and to
make the decision if we can.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you. And just one quick question. So for the expenses for this strengthening the
foundation, so I could -- if this JPY320 billion you have a, -- if you have an update of the
breakdown, I'd like to hear that. But if not, we can have individual sessions.A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
Well, I will confirm about how much we have been used up already. And if I can, I will be informing
you later on.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you.
Thank you, Ishiyama San(ph). Next from JP Morgan, Mr. Kishimoto, please start your question.
Q - `Akira Kishimoto, Analyst, JP Morgan `
This is Kishimoto from JP Morgan. So one question. I want to ask about North America. So in Q1, I
saw the geographic operating income, it looks as North America is quite low. And when we look
at the revenue, there may be you're not, -- it looks as though it's not making much profit. And I
was just wondering what is happening in North America. There is the labor cost, there is inflation.
If that is the biggest impact, maybe you can talk a little bit about North America. Especially hybrid,
I think it's quite strong in North America and there may be a lot of imports from Japan too actually
U.S, so, maybe that profit is actually in the part for Japan. So how is the latest sales of hybrid, and
when we look at geographically, it seems quite low. So when you look at in terms of destination
as well, I was just wondering what is happening for North America. Together with that. So hybrid is
quite strong, but in North America, I think there is a lot of activity on localization and is there any
room for further improvement on that?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
So North America, we have here in the geographical operating income slide, it looks as though
North America is negative, but there has been some one-time cost about JPY40 billion or JPY50
billion if we exclude that, I can't really go into the details of that. But then if we do that, it is
making a positive profit and positive revenue. So there's a lot of cost improvement activities that
are doing well and compared to last year, there has been some incentives, and so we are not
making losses in North America. We have been steadily improving our profit.
And so compared to this geographical operating income as you say there is that export from
Japan to America and then when we look in overall in North America in the market and it was
about a JPY100 billion.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Maybe I can talk a little bit about the hybrid EVs in North America and also about localization. So in
this first quarter, so when we look at the growth in hybrid, it is about a 124% growth globally. But if
we look only at North America, it's 149%, which is way over our global growth. And the engine --
driving engine of that is that for example, the Camry there is the hybrid and the combination with
the ICEs. We had both, but from this April for the Camry, all will be just hybrid sales and that's
what we have started since April. Now the best seller in North America is going to be hybrid only.
So in terms of localization, we have an activity to improve our localization rate and that is also
steadily growing.
For North America, of course, there is a shortage in labor and if we just say we want to localize,
then we may not be able to achieve the volume that we want. So we have to look and discuss it
with each of these suppliers and see what we can localize, what we can send from Japan to the
state and within the -- our intention of bringing it more to hybrid, we have to -- we want toincrease the number of components that can be localized. And in addition to that, also in Japan,
we have the shortage of labor as well, but if we need to send from Japan to overseas, there's
going to be a lot more packages during that we need to do in Japan to send to overseas. We
have to make this business viable and rather than increasing the exports from Japan, there might
be a lot more that we need to localize in order for Toyota to grow into the future. So this
localization activity is mandatory for us in -- as Toyota.
Q - `Akira Kishimoto, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thank you very much. I understand what you're saying. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Kishimoto San. And going on to the next question, Takahashi San from UBS. We'll
connect you next. Takahashi San, please go ahead.
Q - `Taichi Takahashi, Analyst, UBS `
I'm Takahashi from UBS Securities. So I want to ask about Slide 7. I'm looking at Slide 7 and earlier
you talked about the temporary factors and I'd like to ask the questions together. So if I think
accounting effect there was JPY40 billion and then for the others item about JPY80 billion, that
was most of it. It will be the one-time or temporary factors and these negative impacts, is it just a
negative impact for this fiscal year or does it mean that it is a additional to -- because they last
year was a good result, what is the reason? And you said that North America you can't say the
details, but I assume that it was the engine recall in North America and there were the expenses
that was incurred for -- related to that. Am I correct like the Tundra(ph) large -- have large size
engine. You have explained that there will be the recall center or those expenses included in the
North America temporary spending, so how much was that? And what was the factors that will be
again my question?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Thank you. So if you look at this material on the very right-hand side and the inflation accounting --
impact of inflation accounting is Argentina and swaps you can see as it is and for the other areas
there's a JPY34.8 billion under asterisk(ph) number four others and probably this will be the final
posting that we'll see recording on this fiscal year. For Daihatsu suppliers there will be the
compensation and guarantee and the costs incurred related to that is included under this other
JPY34.8 billion in the negative under the asterisk number four.
And earlier we talked about JPY40 billion that in the U.S., it's not about recall. So recall it's just
three months in this fiscal year, it's not included yet. So that is what I can explain to you.
Q - `Taichi Takahashi, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Understood. So for this expenses JPY40 billion, so nothing, -- no real expense --
explanation will engine be quality related, it's not those items, that's what I can say. And quality
related expenses is in the JPY120 billion under expenses under asterisk number three.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
I see. So then for what you explained a temporary factor, it's not a temporary factor, but you have
already recorded it. For, so it's not that -- North America engine related expenses not included,
the overall related expenses and a general perspective is included in this minus JPY120 billion,
the North American engine cost is not included.I'm sorry that I'm asking you again. And the reason why you haven't been included this year, it's
because you haven't booked yet or is it about it's going to be included in the allowances for the
recall so you don't need to make an additional booking?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Well, it's not booked yet, so that would be my answer. Does that answer your question?
Q - `Taichi Takahashi, Analyst, UBS `
I'm sorry, couldn't hear you.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
My answer is that we haven't booked it yet. That would be my answer.
Q - `Taichi Takahashi, Analyst, UBS `
I see, thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Takahashi. Next from Daiwa Securities. Mr. Hakomori(ph), let's connect you.
Hakomori Sir, please start.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Hello, this is Hakomori speaking. I hope you can hear me.
Yes, we can.
Q - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
So I don't really want to ask this question, but when we were talking about that Takahashi and
then the recall cost. It's not going to be individual and then it is going to be something that you
put in on a yearly basis. And I think that is why, you didn't kind of answer it so clearly. Maybe you
can answer that question for me. But my question is, when it comes to North America, the sales
status, looking at some of the qualitative data please. So, Miyazaki Sir at the beginning of the year
when we were talking about the sales was about 14 days and then for hybrid you only had like five
days to six days. And then as of end of June, how is that right now? And if the supply for the
hybrid is still short, then for example, can you increase your price or what is the feeling that you
have on this and if possible Miyazaki also in the beginning you said JPY510 billion, you said that
this number to bring it down was one of your biggest jobs. So maybe we can talk about the
progress on that.
Hakomori, please give us a moment.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Hakomori, for example, it is -- what you have said is true about how we allocate all of these
expenses, but how that is going to be done, we have not determined that yet. So that is probably
why we haven't been able to answer your the -- previous question quite clearly. And then Miyazaki
wants to talk a little bit about North America.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `So you from June, -- January to June share is at about 15% and including inventory things are
looking back to normal. That is how we see it. But, the inventory at the dealer is only about 13
days now, which means that they are actually being able to conduct the business even if it is 13
days and including the interest rate and all that. I hope that we can continue with this. Now in that
the hybrid vehicles, what is the inventory level? For the Corolla, it's less than four days, RAV4
hybrid is about 3 days. And then I said, -- talked about the Camry that we said we want all hybrid,
that is about four days. This is the current situation at the moment.
So on the other hand, as I said, the demand it shows how strong the demand of hybrids are in
North America. And you also talked about any possibility of increasing price. Our competitors,
they are -- have already, I'm sure you heard their financial numbers, so rather than going
increasing our sales price, they are more leveraging on incentives, that's what we see in the
competitors and in that Toyota, when we look at our competitors, we think that there is less room
for price increase and customers are of course looking at other OEMs as well and we just need to
make sure that everybody -- we look at others as well because we want to rather -- you not work
too much on incentives and as I said at the beginning of the year, we have our budget and we
have talked with all of the regional companies and we have the numbers so that they can
compete within their markets. And when we look at the end of Q1, it looks as though that we
have the product capability and at the moment the sales cost, -- was it sales expense is much
less than what we have budgeted for. So, we think at the moment we are doing good and it is
much less than what we have thought we had to spend.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you. If possible, the budget versus sales expenses, how much did it increase in Q1? Can
you give us me some numbers? Can you answer that question? So the sales expense, how much
did it increase or decrease compared to last year's Q1?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
I will check and I will let you know at a later timing. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Hakomori.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer:Accounting Group `
Hakomori, Excuse me.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Yes, Yamamoto.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer:Accounting Group `
It's minus JPY90 billion, JPY90 billion.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you.
Thank you, Hakomori san. We'd like to move on to the next question. And we are accepting
questions now. So if you have a questions, please press the raise hand button. Next to Naruso(ph)
of Okasan security. So we'll be connecting you. Please, hold on. We're ready now, Naruso, please.Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you. Do you hear me?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
Yes, we hear you. Fine.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you. So I'd like to ask about China, which is mentioned on Slide 9. Can you elaborate
further on the China business? I do understand that the sales situation and competition has
become difficult rather than year-on-year compared to the fourth quarter results, I think the
equity method companies profit has been decreasing and of course there's seasonal effects. So
it might not be reasonable to compare fourth quarter and first quarter results. But that -- with the
current tough situation environment in China, is this going to be the best profit that you can
generate or is it that the first quarter had some special factors impacting because the equity
method company's profit has reduced its profit, -- it dropped its profit quite significantly. So can
you elaborate on why this was?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Thank you. I'll be -- I want to confirm some numbers then in that case, in the meantime, I'll like to
start explaining. The sales environment itself is quite tough and this is what we have shared with
you up to now as an information. The market is going into a negative trend and the competitors
make are starting to have aggressive discounts, especially the new emerging makes, they are
making strong discounts. Therefore, if we try to sell volume, we'll have to be careful not to be
caught into this price war, and that is what we're discussing with the regional side, -- regional
operation group. But it's not a situation anymore that we can -- we don't do any expense
spending and sell volume. It's becoming much more difficult as a business environment.
So compared to the previous year the volume has gone down. And also for the sales expenses,
promotion expenses, we have to support the sales network in order to -- and we have to
maintain the sales network because in the future when we introduce the new products, we won't
be prepared to fight. And therefore, we're carefully watching the profit situation of our dealers
and making adjustments on the incentives and sales promotion expenses. And so if possible in
this -- we want to maintain the operation at the level of the first quarter up to the end of the year,
that is our wish. But as you know, the competitive environment is becoming more severe. So we
won't be able to be optimistic of -- going forward, but at least we want to make efforts so that
we can maintain the current level of the performance that is on our mind.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you. I understood well. So the current level will be -- what we should expect, so this is
something that does not have reflect any special matters? And also in a sensational question the
-- your company have been suspending some lines -- what other companies have suspended
your lines or closed some lines, what is the measures that you're implementing in TMC?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Thank you for the question. Yes, of course from the government, they have been saying to us, I
will -- have showed their intention and pressuring us to maintain the production volume because
we're working with partners -- the local partners. But if we make too much, this situation is goingto be more negative, -- further negative to the dealers. Therefore we're going to watch level
inventory and if we need to adjust the production volume, we will do that.
Fortunately, part of the line we're doing an integration and an adjustments and some of the lines
that we have dropped the talk time for the production and so we are doing these adjustments
for the operation and watching -- keeping an eye on the inventory level.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. Norsey(ph). Next question is -- Actually we have one person that is raising their
hands. We still have some time. So even those people who have already asked a question, you
are free to ask your second question. So we would like to ask Mr. Yuzawa, Goldman Sachs to
answer your question. Please start.
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hello, I am Yuzawa from Goldman Sachs. So I have a question from my side and one follow-up.
Right at the beginning we talked about risk opportunities and it seems as the production volume
is quite down and then there might be an extra JPY50 billion for cost and you were being very
careful on that. But when we look at opportunities rather than the foreign exchange impact, if
there is any positive opportunity that you have. And my question is that, of course, your mindset.
Although there was the discount, so and -- are you taking the lead in this, but there is still JPY2
trillion of the balance that is left. What are you going to be doing moving forward?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
So regarding opportunities, we don't see any major opportunities other than on the foreign
exchange rate. We are doing well and the plant is always working on cost improvements and it
does build up little by little and we do have some expectations there. And about the share
buybacks? So how that's going to be happening in the future, no we will look at each case and if
there are any movement then we will update you on that. I don't want to really go into the details
of that.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer:Accounting Group `
Let me add a little bit to that, says Miyazaki(ph).
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
Of course.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer:Accounting Group `
We don't just want to look at risks, we want to look at opportunities. We look for opportunities,
but to get a customer to buy one vehicle. It's not very easy, and it's not as though there's some
special magic that we can do. There are of course the efforts of the dealers where we have one
vehicle each and we are building that for each customer so that we can reach our target of 10.4
million and we just need to make good products and deliver that to the customer. How well we
can do this, is going to really determine the opportunities that we have.
So of course the people selling in the front line will have to work with the customers, make the
contract and they are waiting for the product to arrive. We just need to do what our responsibilityand if we do that, we think that it's going to change into opportunities. So as I said, we need to
strengthen our financial at a early timing, make sure that we can deliver that early, do our best
effort, look around September where we can start increasing our production, which of course will
lead to our opportunities, that is our foresight.
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
So compared to three months ago, I was looking at the financial numbers of your competitors
and they are having a tight time as well. But I hope that you will improve also with the hybrids.
Thank you very much.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
It is really -- No, we did talk about the corrective order that we received at the beginning of this
conference. Now as -- And then when we become in this situation where we cannot make
vehicles, of course that is going to be problems to our suppliers and because we have such a
base underneath us, this is our industry. We want everybody to keep vibrant. We don't want to
take that away from anybody. So of course, as you have been supporting us, we need to really
look forward and do our best and I think we just need to do that together. And thank you for
supporting us in our activity.
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Yuzawa San. We are receiving a lot of hands up. Maybe we can limit to the last three
questions. Next from Morgan Stanley, MUFG Securities, Kakiuchi San, we'll connect you next.
Please go ahead. You're connected now.
Q - `Shinji Kakiuchi, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you, Kakiuchi speaking from Morgan Stanley. Slide 8, where it talks about the geographic
operating income. I have a question about the Asia region, for -- per country if there are different
colors of situations for each country, I'd like to know about that. And also in this region hybrid is
quite strong and also -- but the advantage the BEVs in -- from China are quite strong too --
popular too. So how much is the hybrid is contributing to the Asia results? If you can give a
comprehensive analysis?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Thank you for the question, I'll talk a little bit about this Asia region. So Asia, India is included in the
Asia region and China -- part of China business is included in Asia too. So mainly around
ASEAN(ph) countries. When we talk about Asia, in terms of ASEAN countries, still the hybrid ratio
is not that high. And actually, India from April to June, the hybrid ratio has increased about 50%.
And in addition, India, the sales volume is increasing too. So profit wise they have contributed
greatly to improve the profitability of Asia region. That is India. In that sense for us as I have, -- we
have said from the beginning of this term, India is going to be an important country and market,
so -- and we need to have a good strategy. This is has been how we are approaching India.
On the other hand, I think you're all worried about Thailand. Thailand mainly around with BYD, the
Chinese makes have been coming into the Thailand market. And with these new entrants, Suzuki
Subaru has announced that they are going to close some of the -- part of their plants and Honda
has announced that they're going to make changes into their current plants situation. Fortunately,-- From the end of last year up to the beginning of this year, the battery EV ratio in Thailand
market has gone rapidly up about exceeding slightly 10% ratio. And I think you'll have all raised
your concerns about our situation in Thailand. But after that, the battery EV ratio in the Thailand
market has calmed down a bit and it is now -- have gone a little bit below 10%. Well, I'll say it is in
around the 10% level.
On the other hand, what's happening in the market if we have a deep dive into that area. BYD
the recent six months, I believe they have been reducing the price about JPY1 million. So they are
starting to discount their prices and as a result, the battery EVs, people who have purchased
initially from BYD, because it will be reducing their residual value of the vehicles that they own.
There are negative voices raised and also from the media, there are negative voices, --
questions raised about their BYD strategy. That's what we hear. And for us, what we have to
always remember that these are cars and products that is very important and valuable to the
customers. So we have to keep that in mind. And like India, we want to have a good strategy so
that the customers will be happy like the hybrid strategy we have in India. So for the emerging
markets, we'll look at the actual demand and to take the multi pathway approach when we
prepare product line up for these markets, that is our approach.
Q - `Shinji Kakiuchi, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you. Thank you for the detailed explanation.
Thank you very much. Next we ask (Inaudible) securities. Mr. Hosada(ph), please start your
question.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
This is Hosada speaking. Thank you very much for this opportunity. You did touch up on this, but in
this term you are expecting JPY380 billion to invest into people. Maybe you can talk a little bit
about that. You did say that you asked about JPY40 billion already and then from quarter 2 after
and you look at the profit that might happen, is that going to be kind of an even way of investing
Or is there going to be some ups and downs, maybe you can elaborate on that? And in addition
to that, as a mobility company and as you are changing to a mobility company, you have an
investment of JPY320 billion? And if we look at that on a quarterly basis and -- it's there
something prominent in Q2?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer:Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. We don't really have plans on a quarterly basis because investment
towards people that includes compensation and we think that for the -- improving the working
environment, we want to do it as soon as possible. Really doing it as soon as possible is one of
the things we want to do. But of course, consequently we have in our supplies in Toyota itself, the
timing maybe -- might be leveled out, but at the moment we don't really have any numbers that
show this on a quarterly basis. At the moment we cannot provide that. We don't have that. So,
about our changes for a mobility company, how we do it for this JPY320 billion, we do have the
same approach. So I hope that you understand that.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Exec VP/CFO/CCO/Executive Officer `
So our purchasing is really now currently communicating with our suppliers and I just want to add a
little bit comment on that. So investment to our people. So we are looking so that the entire
motor industry can move forward together. And so as Yamamoto has said, we were looking at
how we can improve wages, how we can improve the work environment, and we are talking withthe supplies and how we can do that together? However, there is like chairs two, three and even
four the deeper we go. How are we going to calculate the cost? Some of the tiers do not know
how to calculate those costs. They don't know how to show all of those numbers. These are
some of the feedback that we get. So at the moment, we can start from where we can. We will
get the response from the supplier and then we can start on that. And that is where this JPY40
billion for the Q1 comes from and as we move on with this communication maybe we can suggest
some calculation method that they might be able to do or look at the numbers in a certain
perspective so that they can sort out their numbers. This is something we are now doing. When
that becomes -- When that penetrates to all of the supplies, I think they will come up with their
numbers and -- so that is the activity we are doing right now as Yamamoto had said, we want to
do it as soon as possible. We hope that these numbers come out from the suppliers at an early
timing and we are just now making the efforts on how we can support them doing that.
Also, -- As I talked to many people, they say that Toyota might be able to do that but or -- receive
orders, but maybe they cannot do at that -- at the suppliers. And if that they cannot get the
suppliers to do that, then it doesn't really work. So there's investment towards the people. This is
not something that is just been to be done within the OEM, it should be done throughout our
suppliers. So if you can support us in that and back us up, we would be very grateful. Thank you.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you for your detailed explanation.
Thank you. And so the next question will be the final question. Eiji Hakomori of Daiwa Securities.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Sorry that I'm asking the question the second time and it might not be a question appropriate for
the last question, but initially you talked about the certification issues and for the overseas the
additional items that was pointed out. Nova and Voxy, you said that you have a plan to resume
production, but are there the models that are in production and are confirming the status? I think
there were about three models. So for these three models, so what will be the production scale
that we're talking about here? And if nothing happens, I think that will be fine. But if in order to do
a risk check, what will be the impact of the three models if something happens?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, NA
Thank you. First of all, inside of our company. Well, for what we have received as an additional
point -- there were seven vehicles involved in what was pointed out additionally, and Nova and
Voxy was included in this additional seven models. And for the other models, about the covered
by the overseas authorities that they are the primary window for providing the certification
approval. And I don't want to confuse you, I'm not trying to confuse you. But for the -- in the side
of the certification process for overseas, there is the institution that provide -- approves the
certification, meaning that the institution that will do the test. And then the result of that test done
at this institution will be submitted to the authorities. The authorities will receive the test results
and provide the certification approval. So there is the institution that performs the test and the
authorities will provide approval. Right now it is in the summer period, in the vacation period, so
we haven't been able to confirm for all of the models to receive the confirmation by the overseas
related institutions. That's the current situation.
So for us as I said in the beginning, we have confirmed that it is in compliance with the necessary
performance and criteria and therefore we think we are safe but as the (inaudible) has pointedout to us for the overseas authorities, we -- they have told us instructed us to do the confirmation
with the overseas authorities and we will be thoroughly following through making sure that we
check do the confirmation with all of the overseas authorities.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Thank you very much. Understood.
Thank you very much Hakomori San(ph). So with that I'd like -- we'd like to end this explanation
session for the financial results for Q1. Thank you very much for attending despite your occupied
schedule. If you have any further questions, please contact the person in charge of IR. Thank you
very much everyone.