Q1 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome and thank you for joining the SAP Q1 2024 Financial Results Conference Call.
Throughout today's recorded presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. The
presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Good evening, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us. With me today are CEO,
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer; and `Scott Russell, Chief Revenue Officer, Head of Customer Success. On this call,
we will discuss SAP's first quarter 2024 results. You can find the deck supplementing this call as
well as our quarterly statement on our Investor Relations website.
During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to materially differ. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may
be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to
the risk factors section of SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2023.
Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS, and growth rates and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS year-on-year at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures
we provide should not be considered a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Before we start, I'd like to first remind everyone of the adjustment to our reporting practices
announced on December 18 last year. This adjustment, notably incorporating share-basedcompensation into our non-IFRS results, are now fully reflected in our Q1 results. I would also like
to call your attention to our upcoming Financial Analyst Conference, which will take place on June
5 as part of our Sapphire event in Orlando, Florida. This will be broadcast on our website.
And with that, I'd like to now turn the call over to Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you, Anthony, and thanks to everyone on the line for joining our first earnings call for
2024. When we look at SAP's longer-term growth journey, 2024 is the key year. It's the year to
scale up revenue and profitability. And I'm so proud to say what we saw in Q1 makes us very
confident about our goals. We are off to a strong start, and we have laid a solid foundation for
2025 and beyond.
Let's look at the key metrics for Q1. Current cloud backlog grew 28% to EUR14.2 billion. This is the
fastest growth on record and demonstrates the strong momentum across our portfolio with
Business AI as an enabling factor with a strong impact already on our Q1 backlog. Cloud revenue
increased 25% and reached EUR3.9 billion. Our operating profit came in at EUR1.5 billion in Q1,
19% higher than a year ago.
The new disclosure of Cloud ERP Suite creates transparency for you and us. It shows how we are
executing on moving our installed base to the cloud and how we are driving SAP's ERP leadership
position with our land and expand strategy.
The Cloud ERP Suite contains all the modules for our company's core processes, from finance,
spend management, and HR, to supply chain, commerce, and our business technology platform,
including data and analytics. Together, these modules have the same functional scope as our
monolithic on-premise ERP. Our modular and integrated Cloud ERP is unmatched in covering the
core processes for over 25 industries and 130 countries in the world, and represents a EUR700
billion market opportunity by 2027.
In Q1, revenue from the Cloud ERP Suite was up 32% and reached EUR3.2 billion. We have seen
exponential growth in this metric for two consecutive years, as we are successfully expanding our
footprint in our installed base. The land and expand strategy works beautifully. Every customer
right now has to redesign core processes end-to-end to master the business transformation in
the industry. And this is only the beginning. The flywheel has just started to spin. I will go deeper
into that in a minute.
There are many exciting customer stories behind our strong start to the year. In Q1, a range of
exciting companies signed up for RISE with SAP. To name just a few examples, the premium
chocolate maker, Lindt & Sprungli, the global manufacturing company, SKF, and the U.S.
aerospace company, Curtiss-Wright. We also saw great customer take up across the portfolio.
Maersk, a world leader in container logistics, adopted the BTP as the integration and
development platform, spanning across the SAP and non-SAP IT landscape. Our GROW with SAP
offering was very successful, with hundreds of new customers and a 64% share of net new
customers in Q1. One of them is the carbon capture startup, Climeworks.
As for our sustainability solutions, we won another 100 customers in Q1, on top of more than
1,000 we had before. New customers like Ericsson, the global leader in wireless technologies,
and Wieland, a leader in energy-saving technologies, chose SAP's Sustainability Control Tower for
their regulatory ESG reporting. So in summary, we had a strong start in Q1, and we are happy to
confirm our 2024 outlook as well as our 2025 ambition.We are also very confident about the resilience of our growth story beyond 2025 because we
have all the right ingredients in place. Our three growth drivers are RISE with SAP as the leading
transformation offering for our installed base, GROW with SAP for net new customers, smaller
subsidiaries and acquisitions, and the innovations we delivered and we will release in the
upcoming years, above all, Business AI.
Let's first look at RISE with SAP. Our installed base is large, with over EUR11 billion remaining
support revenue to be converted to the cloud, typically by a factor of around 2 to 3. On top, the
EUR700 billion cloud ERP market offers significant cross-selling opportunities, and I have no doubt
that SAP's integrated best-of-suite capabilities will win in the core business of our customers.
As part of RISE and via the CLEAN CORE journey, SAP and our ecosystem will help our customers
to remove their ERP custom code and instead, develop integrated ERP extensions on BTP. This
gives us an immense additional revenue potential, considering that customers in the on-premise
world spend up to EUR7 on custom code for every euro they invest in ERP software.
Customers like Hitachi High-Tech, for example, reduced the number of custom code add-ons by
over 19%. RISE has just become the de facto standard for our installed base. It offers a holistic
business process redesign combined with the migration to our modular cloud ERP, resulting in
fast time-to-value and being always on the latest release, consuming new innovations without
time-intensive ERP upgrades like in the past.
Let's have a brief look at GROW with SAP, our second growth driver. As SAP's Greenfield Cloud
ERP offering for net new customers or new business units of large enterprises, GROW delivers
go-lives in weeks for every business model in every industry in every country. With our ERP
solution, SME customers can grow and scale their business without migrating to a new ERP.
Ultimately, RISE and GROW offer customers similar advantages, innovation, modularity, scalability
and integration.
Coming to the third driver of our growth, which is innovation with Business AI at the core. SAP
Business AI will once again transform how businesses run and how end users will work in the
future. At SAP, we infuse Business AI across our portfolio. First of all, Joule will be our new user
experience via natural language, our one front-end. We have based our Joule roadmap on an
analysis of the most frequent business and analytical transactions of our end users. This way, we
make sure that the most heavily used transactions will be fully AI-enabled by the end of this year.
Second, we are embedding GenAI directly in our cloud products. Since Q4, we have released
over 30 new AI scenarios across our cloud portfolio. Additional ones come out almost every
week with more than 100 in the pipeline for the remainder of the year. Third, our customers,
partners and SAP can use the AI foundation on the BTP, including the GenAI hub to build custom
AI scenarios. Over 60 ecosystem partners are taking advantage of these capabilities already and
working on over 80 use cases right now.
Among the over 27,000 customers already using our Business AI is ZF Friedrichshafen, a leading
automotive supplier. ZF is lifting significant financial value by optimizing demand and supply chain
planning with embedded AI. Together with our partner NVIDIA, we are currently building new
GenAI capabilities. One use case will revolutionize how software will be developed in the future.
Jensen and I are looking forward to telling you more about this partnership at Sapphire.
Commercially, customers can buy SAP Business AI as consumption-based AI units, which can be
used across the entire portfolio or via our premium RISE and GROW offerings that include AI
units, so customers can get started right away. Both commercial offers have already seen highdemand and many Q1 deals were influenced by SAP Business AI. Overall, we offer a unique value
proposition versus the competition with three elements.
SAP Business AI works out of the box. For their own GenAI-enabled extensions, customers and
partners have full choice which leading model they want to use, including modules from OpenAI,
Google, the best open source alternatives, or using their own modules. And SAP Business AI
comes with our leading enterprise standards and is deeply integrated with our data and security
modules.
In summary, we had a strong start to 2024, and we are confident we will achieve our goals for the
year. Looking ahead, we have powerful growth drivers in place and many innovations in our R&D
pipeline. The strong development of our cloud backlog is a testament to that momentum.
With regard to our transformation program, we are making even better progress than expected,
especially with hiring new talent for future-oriented areas such as AI. The program will help us to
capture growth and increase efficiency at the same time, among other things, by pushing the
internal use of AI.
We expect a triple-digit million amount in efficiencies from embedding AI across all our
processes. Equally important for us as an employer, wherever SAP colleagues are affected by
restructuring, we are moving with care and empathy, always aware of our social responsibility.
And with that, I'm handing over to you, Dominik.
`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Christian, and thank you all for joining us this evening. Let me start by echoing
Christian's sentiment that the fundamentals remain exceptionally strong. March marked my first
anniversary as SAP's CFO, and I consider myself very fortunate to have joined the company just in
time with the business in pole position to capitalize on the tremendous AI opportunity lying ahead
of us.
The hard work of the prior year started to pay off handsomely, also for those investors who kept
the faith in the company during these turbulent times. It is because of the dedication of our
workforce that we continue to experience strength across the business. Our solutions are
becoming increasingly differentiated, demonstrated by continued revenue growth throughout the
world, expanding cloud gross profit, and improved cash conversion. We've kept the promise and
walked the talk, setting the stage for sustained growth in the coming years.
Fiscal year 2024 is already off to a strong start. We continue to build on our robust foundation, as
evidenced by the impressive growth of our current cloud backlog and continued momentum of
our cloud revenue. In addition, non-IFRS operating profit showed significant double-digit growth,
even when including stock-based compensation.
Our key priorities, including our investments in Business AI, demonstrate our commitment to
leading the charge in this new era of business transformation and exemplify our relentless drive
for growth and operational excellence.
The company-wide transformation program we initiated in January is progressing well, focusing
on enhancing our operational efficiencies and setting the stage for improved financial
performance. We're also deploying our own AI solutions internally as a powerful lever to drive
productivity.Digital transformation is imperative in today's evolving landscape, and SAP remains the partner of
choice. Building on our strategic commitment, the introduction of the Cloud ERP Suite is a pivotal
step in aligning our product offering more closely with our core ERP and integrated business
solutions.
All of this has helped foster the trend towards larger cloud transactions, with deals greater than 5
million in volume contributing more than half of our cloud order entry. This is remarkable for the
first quarter of the year.
I will now go into further details on our financial highlights. Current cloud backlog was EUR14.2
billion, accelerating its impressive growth to 28%, solidly keeping us on the trajectory towards our
fiscal year 2024 outlook and fiscal year 2025 top line ambition.
Cloud revenue grew 25% year-on-year, mainly driven by the continued strength of our Cloud ERP
Suite. It grew by 32% in Q1, its ninth consecutive quarter of growth in the 30s. The sustained
momentum underscores our expectations that Cloud ERP Suite will continue to capture a growing
share of our cloud business, thanks to its critical role in our customers' digital transformation
journeys. It actually already represents 84% of our combined PaaS, SaaS revenue, up 3
percentage points as compared to the prior year's quarter.
Software license revenue saw a decrease of 25%. So the dilution of its share of the total revenue
from 9% to 5% in only one year impressively illustrates the continued secular shift in market
preference towards cloud-based solutions in the enterprise. Finally, total revenue surpassed
EUR8 billion in Q1, up 9% year-over-year, showing unabated growth momentum.
Now, let's take a brief look at our regional performance. In the first quarter, SAP's cloud revenue
performance was particularly strong in APJ and EMEA and robust in the Americas region. Brazil,
Canada, Germany, Italy, the United Arab Emirates, India, and South Korea had outstanding
performances in cloud revenue growth, while the U.S., Japan, and Spain were particularly strong.
Now, let's move further down the income statement. Our cloud gross profit grew by 28%, driven
by cloud revenue growth and further efficiency gains. This resulted in cloud gross margin
improving from the year-ago period, expanding by 1.8 percentage points to 72.5%.
IFRS operating profit in the first quarter was impacted by EUR2.2 billion of restructuring provisions
associated with the transformation program initiated in January. This resulted in an IFRS operating
loss of EUR787 million. This accrual represents the vast majority of the total restructuring
expenses we currently expect to incur in the context of the program. The amount is closer to the
upper end of what we had anticipated initially, which is primarily driven by the strong share price
performance in the first quarter and the higher than expected acceptance rate of the early
retirement program in the U.S.
We continue to be in the very early stages of executing the program, which we expect to be
concluded by the beginning of 2025 and projected expenses are based on preliminary
assumptions. We expect visibility to further improve for the course of the second quarter and
plan to provide an update once the related measures are fully assessed.
Finally, non-IFRS operating profit grew by 19%, evidencing our sustained push towards enhanced
profitability. The underlying profit expansion was tempered by EUR135 million increase in stock-
based compensation expense, mainly as a result of a very strong appreciation of our share price
in the first quarter.Q1 2024 was actually the quarter with the highest increase in SAP's market capitalization ever. As
we settled for the last time, the entire tranche of our obligations under the 2021 MOVE SAP
program in Q1, fully in cash, we expect a significantly lower sensitivity in the coming quarter as we
move to equity set. Therefore, the non-IFRS operating profit outlook is reaffirmed for the full year
2024 despite this headwind. Non-IFRS earnings per share in the quarter increased 8% to EUR0.81.
The IFRS effective tax rate for Q1 was 16% and the non-IFRS tax rate was 32.4%.
Now on to our cash generation. Free cash flow for Q1 came in at EUR2.49 billion, up 28%, again,
putting us on the right trajectory to maintain our full year outlook. There was only a minor cash
flow impact from our transformation program in the first quarter. So we reiterate our 2024
outlook on all parameters. For the detailed outlook, please refer to our quarterly statement
published earlier today on our Investor Relations website.
In summary, Q1 marks a strong start to the year, highlighted by continued growth in both our
current cloud backlog and Cloud ERP Suite. Business traction combined with focus on execution is
positioning us well to meet our objectives for the remainder of the year.
Before we open it up to Q&A, I would like to say that we are very much looking forward to
welcoming you to our Financial Analyst Conference in June. As already mentioned by Anthony, it
will take place in conjunction with Sapphire in Orlando. And the team and I are very much looking
forward to meeting you there in person. So thank you and we'll now be happy to take your
questions.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Operator, please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) One moment for the first question, please. And there it already is, the first question
is from the line of `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited with JPMorgan Cazenove Limited. Go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited `
Yes. Hi, and thanks for the question. Perhaps just sort of taking a step back on the margin side,
clearly -- clearly, there's a big step-up in the margins embedded in your EUR10 billion EBIT
guidance for 2025. I don't know, Dominik, you talked to Q4 about the potential for continued
margin expansion beyond 2025. And I know that the Rule of 40 is something that's being
discussed in the market and when looking at the software ecosystem, could you perhaps just
give us a sense of how you're thinking about the Rule of 40 and whether this is something you
think SAP could achieve? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I mean, the Rule of 40 is simply an observation, if we do benchmarking with our core
competitors and we look at the median or the average, it doesn't actually matter. You see that,
that's what they trade at. The stats show us that for 2023, we are at 25%. And if you combine our
free cash flow to sales margin plus the growth we achieved in that year, and if you do -- if youlook at the midpoint of the ambition, or the Ambition 2025, basically you see that would kind of
bring us a little bit more than half the way towards that.
Now, the rest is really much -- very much dependent on how much can we accelerate revenue
growth? And this is why we highlight again and again the revenue mix improving. I highlighted
84% of the SaaS/PaaS revenue is already in Cloud ERP Suite, which is kind of running at 30%-plus
growth rates on a year-on-year basis.
We also highlight that the strongest headwind, the decline in Software business is becoming
smaller and smaller. It's now down to 5% of the revenues. So the fundamentals are actually there
to support strong revenue growth revenue growth.
And then, of course, there's also some improvement in margins. We said that we want to clearly
scale the cost base, not at the same growth rate as revenues, but again, we look at
benchmarking and see that our core competitors achieved between 80% to 90% growth of the
cost base versus the revenue base. That's an indication of the kind of ballpark we aim at, with our
Transformation Program. And now, then you can basically play the math of rolling these numbers
forward to see how long it will take us to come to that Rule of 40, which, by the way, we have no
idea where it will be 5, 10 years down the road, because of course our competitors will also not
stand still.
But that's the way I can describe it. So don't take it, like, as a guidance that we can get there at
any specific given quarter. But obviously, we have to acknowledge that this is where the market is
running. And this is a little bit of the North Star we have on top of our head. And I think with the
measures we are taking now to really A, kind of cover more than half of the gap we currently
have; and then B, to accelerate growth and also to grow costs more slowly than revenues, we
have the ingredients to gradually move towards the target.
Q - `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited `
That's great. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Toby. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Adam Wood with Morgan Stanley. Go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Adam Dennis Wood, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, good evening. Thanks for taking the question. I wondered, first of all, just on the AI side, if you
could help us a little bit around how that's been monetized today? Is this more that customers
are accelerating the shift to S/4, because they want to take advantage of the tools that will be
available there in the future? Or actually, are you starting to monetize already that Business AI
feature and charging directly for that?
And then maybe just secondly, you talked about EUR7 of custom code versus one of software.
Obviously, a massive opportunity if you could capture more of that. How realistic is it that you can
cover enough of the custom areas to be able to capture that? Or is this more monetization of the
platform as companies and partners develop on the BTP? Thank you.A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks a lot for the questions, Adam. I mean, on AI, first, when you look at the Commercial
model, we actually included some standard AI use cases for automation of repetitive tasks in our
base packages. On top, of course, we have now -- we are delivering more-and-more GenAI
models, which also require high computing power. And I talked about Joule. And Joule will cover
the most used transactions of our end users by the end of the year. So no matter if you do work
on travel, on finance, on supply chain, on procurement, it will all happen via human language. And
that is included in our premium AI offering, which is consumption-based. We package it some AI
units already in our RISE & GROW packages, and that is actually running extremely well. And on
top, of course, you can also, of course, consume Business AI by, of course, buying more
consumption packages of our offerings.
And with regard to the adoption, I mean, the way how it works, Adam, is, of course, Joule will
become the de facto user experience front-end for our end users. Second, when you are then
talking to the customers, what we are already doing, they will use our GenAI scenarios for asset
management, for manufacturing, for shopfloor automation, for more personalization of their
offerings, of their services, of their products by our configurator, or they also build custom AI use
cases. Why? Why do you do that with our GenAI Hub on BTP? Because you get the native
integration into the data. We can also pre-train some modules. You have integration into the
security and authorization, which matters in the business world. And these are all the benefits, the
value, why our partners and customers already start to develop new AI use cases custom for their
individual business.
And then, with regard to your second question, I guess, here, it's also very important to mention
that when you look at the momentum of our top line, I mean, it's evident when that, we are not
only scaling our business with S/4HANA Finance, I mean, I'm sitting in many of these RISE mega
transformations. And what we are often doing is we start with finance. Then we go into hire to
retire. We go into finance and payroll. We talk about total workforce, we fill class [ph] and
SuccessFactors. So we are closing megadeals, but we are doing it step-by-step in a modular way,
given our architecture, which ensures fast time to value.
And then you scan the custom code. And the custom code is actually sometimes 7x more than
standard code, ERP standard code on-prem. And then you are looking into what kind of
extensions have been built. Then, for example, in Oil & Gas, we brought now the 10 largest Oil &
Gas companies of the world together. We talk about trade promotion. We talk about product
revenue accounting. All the extensions, which make a ton of sense to not custom code it
anymore in ERP, to sit always on the latest release, but then developing it side-by-side, because
you need a native integration into the data module of SAP. And of course, the security concept
plays in there as well.
And indeed, Adam, this is a massive uptick, what we have, and it's platform consumption. And
customers, partners can actually then also develop their own IP, can offer it in our app store. And
then again, as I just said, for Oil & Gas, same will happen for Retail, for Manufacturing, can cross-
sell it across the industry.
And with that, I guess, you also feel that this is also a massive transformation for our ecosystem.
No custom coding, but rather building, developing software on the platform and building a
massive ecosystem around our Cloud ERP.
Q - `Adam Dennis Wood, Morgan Stanley `A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Adam. We will take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. Christian, you mentioned, you've seen already a kind of
noticeable impact on CCB from AI, and obviously, last year, I think the CCB soft target was in the
mid-20s. Now, it looks like were more at 27, 28. I mean, it's tough to quantify the impact, I guess,
but is the delta, is that largely AI-driven? And also, should we look at the kind of high-20s as the
more sustainable growth run rate for CCB now going forward?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, on Business AI, to answer your first question, I mean, Scott is also on the line and please
comment, Scott. I mean, I have no C-level conversation anymore without talking about Business AI
and the impact on the business. Just last week, I had a conversation about production downs in
manufacturing and how our GenAI Hub can help to get the machines faster up and running again,
which actually would result in hundreds of millions of efficiency gains for this large chemical
company.
And you see in these conversations, are these AI use cases already live and fully adopted? No
they are now in the making, but with that comes more-and-more consumption, and we're going
to monetize that in the upcoming quarters and in the upcoming years. And we have many more
of that. And of course, when you are now using SuccessFactors, Concur, everyone is looking for
more efficiencies, for a new way of working. So Joule will become the de facto standard. And with
that, we're going to see an uptick of all of our premium packages now we are building for each
line of business and of course, also for RISE & GROW.
With regard to CCB, I mean, we are very confident when we look at the pipeline for the year, we
see healthy renewals. We see a good pipeline to close business in the upcoming quarters.
Sapphire is around the corner where we also make some exciting announcements around data
and of course, AI. Yes, so we are very confident also when it comes to CCB for the remainder of
the year.
But Scott, Dominik, please feel free to comment as well.
A - `Scott Russell, Chief Revenue Officer `
Yes. I'll probably give two additional data points just to add on what you described, Christian. So
first, as you saw in the update, the Cloud ERP Suite growth, and that covers the end-to-end
capability for an enterprise, is growing, and it continues to grow strongly; ninth quarter in a row,
30%-plus. But the reasons why are evolving, there is no doubt companies want best-in-class
processes, be able to automate their enterprise, build in efficiency. But what they're clearly now
seeing is not all data is equal. Not all data in the enterprise is equal. The data that sits in the SAP
platforms is the most valuable data that they have.
And when they think forward, and they look at our innovation roadmap with Business AI, and they
see the capabilities that we bring inside the core, not only will they get the benefit out of thethat is the most valuable to them is in -- it's got the integrity, it has got the context, it's got the
metadata, it's got the semantics, and then you can get the innovation insights. And a lot of the
growth that we're now seeing, and to Christian's point, there is not a single conversation that SAP
is having with customers that is not linking best-in-class innovation, underlying valuable data, and
the generative AI capabilities in that combination. And that's why they are excited about the
roadmap, but it's already stimulating the growth.
And to give you one additional data point, our Cloud pipeline growth. So the pipeline that we
generate in first quarter was the best on record. We continue to see strong demand, not only in
what we booked and what we're generating in the Cloud backlog, but also the interest from the
market, and a lot of that is stimulated by our Business AI roadmap.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe just to complement that view on the kind of dynamics in the business to the financial
model, you know that the biggest, single-most important dilutive factor, so to speak, from CCB
down to Cloud revenue growth with a certain time lag is actually the transactional business. And
this is now kind of stagnating. It's actually very, very slightly even decreasing. The macro isn't
great. There's also these changes in the kind of supply network happening, and we think that
over time that will become smaller in the mix. By the way, that dilutive effect is also embarked in
our Cloud ERP Suite growth numbers. So we show that 30%, 32% growth, despite that headwind,
but that's the biggest bridge item between CCB and Cloud revenues.
Now, if you look at what we've kind of indicated in our Ambition '25, you see that with 28% CCB,
you don't need to see much acceleration to basically get there, because you take off the dilutive
effect on 5% of the revenue is basically stagnating. And we do believe that in '25, there will be
some acceleration there. So it's what we really take to get to our 2025 Ambition. So anything
beyond that would be upside in some way.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And last but not least, when you look at the Current Cloud Backlog, we release ACV
numbers at the year-end, we are going to talk about TCV, but customers are also trending more-
and-more to also now sign longer-term commitments with ramps, which are also then going over
five years. And of course, there is enough in the books also when it comes to CCB TCV, and
there the growth is even higher than in the ACV.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank `
Very clear. Thank you very much.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Johannes. We will take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America `
Hi, good evening. Two quick questions, please. So first of all, coming back on the CCB. So you
mentioned the CCB is being held by the demand for AI, but can you discuss a bit morespecifically what's driving that sequential acceleration, any specific modules or areas where you
see demand? Or is it just the momentum in S/4?
And then second question on the Cloud migration. If you can give us an update on your current
ERP landscape, percentage of customers that have migrated to the Cloud? And how -- what are
you seeing in terms of momentum? Are we seeing some of the largest customers continuing to
migrate? So any update on that would be great. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, happy to take that question. And Scott, please feel free to comment as well. I mean, first, to
-- your second question is also actually related to your question number one. And what we are
seeing now with Business AI is actually that a lot of customers who probably planned their
migration start date for S/4, end of this year or next year, that they actually now want to move
faster because they see the capabilities with SAP Business AI, as I mentioned, on asset
management, on just automating many, many workflows in their company, but also when it comes
to analytics, especially in the supply chain planning, which is an extremely important part of many
companies right now.
And that actually also has driven now the sequential increase. But this is not only Business AI
standalone. Business AI helps us to sell more supply chain, to sell more HR, to sell more finance.
And then last but not least, which makes me so confident also about the growth potential for
2025-plus, I mean, when you start with finance and you talk about your business model, you talk
immediately about the billing, about the commissions, then you're actually moving into the supply
chain. And when you're doing demand and supply, you're also then talking about design to
operate. And now we are seeing a huge uptick in our Manufacturing Cloud business. And then
you're going module-by-module, because when you talk to these customers, they see more-and-
more that the best of three [ph], it really doesn't work when you have to stitch together manual --
manually data modules or the identity or the authorization.
So what we are seeing in many RISE customers over time, that there are a lot of cross-sell
potential and that we -- the first phase is only about landing and then start provisioning, start to
redesign the process landscape. And then we go, and we already talked about the custom code
and the ecosystem we are more-and-more building on BTP to also remove the custom code and
move to the CLEAN CORE.
A - `Scott Russell, Chief Revenue Officer `
And yes, hey, I'll just add one additional comment to what Christian described. And that is, the
growth on the CCB is consistent around the world. And so this is not a particular region. Across all
regions, we saw healthy growth. Obviously, APJ and parts of Europe and Greater China were
strong, but across the world.
And secondly, it is across that portfolio. People aren't doing a move only. They're doing a move
and transform. And that requires those extended capabilities. And if I just link it back, if you've
already got the data architecture of SAP and it's the most valuable, then you can do so many
more things, not only AI-related, but also innovation-related that you can do within your business.
So it is definitely means that our short, mid and long-term growth has -- it's definitely got
confidence based on the capabilities, the innovation roadmap, but also the buying signals that we
see from the market here and now.Q - `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America `
Okay, thanks.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Fred. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Jackson Ader, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Go ahead.
Q - `Jackson Ader, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Great. Thanks, guys for taking our question. Just one on the large deal strength, but I think
Christian or maybe Dominik, you called it out in terms of the $5 million plus deals driving a lot of
strength in Cloud ERP. I'm just curious, are you seeing -- I mean, I assume the preponderance of
that is migration or RISE with SAP, but are you seeing any large deals for net new customers or
net new land that are also driving some of the CCB growth? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Scott, do you want to go first?
A - `Scott Russell, Chief Revenue Officer `
Let me kick it off and then Christian, please add in. So I think we've got to be clear. When
customers decide to move to RISE, they're not just doing a move of their current environments
and replicating the same capability. In fact, far from it. They're trying to transform, operationally
process all of their data, all of their capability to serve now and into the future. They're setting
their business up.
And so when they look at these, which is why, to answer your question, the larger deals are
because they look at a multi-year roadmap of capability transitioning from an older state,
including non-SAP. So what we see is many situations where our customers will say, okay, I might
be using SAP for core finance, but I'll then extend, i.e. ERP Suite, the other capabilities, and then
we're able to have a competitive displacement. That happens on a regular.
So whether you look at the SKFs, the Curtiss-Wrights, and the others that Christian mentioned in
his opening, and you see the chart of all the other RISE customers, they're nearly always bringing
the BTP, which is displacing other technology platforms and using that as the innovation platform.
They're using other extension, whether it be Ariba, Concur, SuccessFactors to be able to provide
its people its spend.
So yes, we are seeing that, but then the compelling event is obviously an initial move and then a
multi-year journey when they're on a large deal, which makes up a big portion of the Q1 results
that you see.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe to shed some more light on top, on the numbers, is, I mean, what you also see with RISE,
it's not only that we are landing, of course, and converting maintenance with a factor of 2x to 3x
to the Cloud. What we are then seeing after is that next on land-and-expand customers want to
replace their HCM module, and this is then oftentimes a double-digit SuccessFactor, employeecentral deal. Needless to say, payroll is a massive business, which we are also more-and-more
now shifting to the Cloud.
So there are a lot of cross-sell -- large cross-sell opportunities after we landed with RISE. On BTP, I
mentioned one customer. Actually, for BTP, we also oftentimes see now double-digit ACV deals
with our large customers, as they are not only using the platform for integration, but also for the
extension, for the CLEAN CORE journey.
And then last but not least, when it comes to the volume business growth, that's rightfully driven
by our ecosystem, by our resellers. But oftentimes you'll start with a EUR500,000 deal with some
users, it scales, and then you start Finance, HR, and then you expand into Manufacturing Cloud or
into Billing, et cetera. And in the meantime, you see that customers are growing from
EUR500,000 to EUR2 million to EUR3 million ACV. And of course, this is not the end, but you see
that this massive volume business will also further contribute to the growth, and these customers
will also become -- after landing and signing deals, net new customers will also become way
bigger over time.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Jackson.
Q - `Jackson Ader, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Excellent. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Michael J. Briest, UBS Limited with UBS Limited. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, UBS Limited `
Yes. Good evening. Just on your comments, Christian, about applying AI internally, I think you
mentioned a figure of triple-digit millions. Can you give a sense of where that comes from? And
is this EUR100 million to EUR150 million or high triple-digit million? And over what time you might
realize that?
And just a quick clarification, Dominik, on the free cash flow, that's very good. Did that include the
final repayment of the factoring of about EUR200 million that spilled over from last year? And
obviously, you're saying that the restructuring is not quite finalized yet, potentially. Clearly, your
EUR3.5 billion number is safe, even if that number does creep up a bit. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I can start on the internal rollout of AI. And yes, indeed, it's a triple-digit million of efficiencies. And
what we're already doing right now, we roll out Joule, especially for SAP SuccessFactors. So job
description, learning, co-pilot, interviews, feedback, that's all automated now via Joule.
In procurement, we have content recommendations rolled out in category tools. In IT or in the
cross-functions, for example, take F&A, we have to screen hundreds of thousands of contractssales world, we actually also use now AI for content generation, for demo, for -- actually, for the
business case creation, which saves a lot of time. So we are rolling out AI development, of
course. We have GitHub, but then also we are using our own SAP Build automated code
generation tool, for example, for ABAP.
And if you think about that, we can increase the productivity of each developer by up to 30% to
40% already this year, by our own SAP Build solution, and also by GitHub, you can imagine, the
scale and the efficiencies we are going to generate in the years to come also by applying AI
internally.
Dominik?
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
On the free cash flow side, you asked about the kind of discontinuation of the factoring, I would
say, it was yes, partially, not fully, because there are some deals, which might spend longer-term.
But we basically in 2024 discontinue this practice. So you already see a part of the roll off. I want
to highlight though that the bigger thing, so to speak, in Q1 still is that we paid the fines, and the
famous EUR0.2 billion on DOJ and other authorities. So that was weighing in Q1 and is already
digested. So we are also very pleased with the free cash flow performance in Q1.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Michael. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `James Goodman, Barclays Capital with Barclays Capital. Please go ahead.
Q - `James Goodman, Barclays Capital `
Great. Thank you very much. Maybe with investor focus, I think, increasingly shifting beyond '25
now, I wanted to come back just to some commentary around the transition at a high level and
specifically sort of framing that in a financial sense. The maintenance base that still remains in the
business today, can you help us a little bit with just how much of that really needs to transition to
Cloud? I mean, I'm conscious that there was sales, for example, of S/4 before the RISE program,
for example, came in. And really then just when does that substantially need to be done by, given
the 2027 deadline, but also the extended support period beyond that? So just how much of the
base really and over what period?
And just a related second question, just around the services business only growing 1% this
quarter. I know it's a slightly tougher comp, but given the demand for implementation work and
such like here around S/4, I might've expected that to be a little higher. Are you expecting it to
pick back up? Or is there a structural reason that remains lower? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry, no, I was focused on the services. The first one was the --
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
The (Multiple Speakers) --
Q - `James Goodman, Barclays Capital `So just with the maintenance --
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
The maintenance, okay, excuse me. Okay. So maintenance, a little bit more than half of our EUR11
billion maintenance base we have today is in products which go out of regular maintenance by
end of 2027. And then the question is how much of that will still not convert to Cloud, but will go
to extended maintenance at a higher cost? So that's the parameter.
And I think it's safe to assume that the lion's share of all that by 2030 will in some fashion
disappear, because we will not, as we say so many times, prolong maintenance on these
products. Of course, the rest being on other products, also, of course, on S/4, which you know
has a kind of a lifetime through 2040. So there's ample of room there, but indeed there is an
anticipation that there will be an acceleration in conversions from that angle as people need to
transition from ECC to Cloud, given what I just described.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
On the services business, I mean, Scott, please also feel free to comment. I mean, look, on
services, first of all, we are delivering 90% of our projects via ecosystem. And the remainder, the
10% share, of course, what we are doing there, yes, there was some seasonality with the Easter
holidays now in Q1. We had some one-timers last year in Q1. But in a nutshell, of course, this
business will, of course, continue to also show growth going forward.
And what is very important with regard to our services business, what we are focusing is more on
the high-margin services, like when you are going in into a RISE deal, you need a great architect
who connect the process, the system, and the data layer to drive this holistic transformation.
Then we have the best process experts, yes. When you talk about business model
transformation, when you talk about design to operate, obviously, of course, our consultants
need to be leading and also sharing best practices of other customers. While, of course, main
parts of the technical migration of the technical consulting will be delivered by our ecosystem,
rightfully delivered by our ecosystem.
A - `Scott Russell, Chief Revenue Officer `
I just wanted to add one thing on the -- back onto the support revenue that Dominik described.
Bear in mind that when we talk on one hand about large deals, when you have got these large
programs of transformation, that includes a period of coexistence where customers will keep the
maintenance of their on-premise capability until such time that they have transformed into the
Cloud.
So not only do you have that -- so that steady progress accelerated transformation, it's
happening in tandem. So as you see the Cloud revenue growth, you will also see the
corresponding takedown of the support revenues. But it is in light of a customer's transformation.
So all the RISE customers that were existing customers that you saw in Q1 and quarters in the past
go through that journey. And so you can see a measured and managed downgrade of the
support in light with the Cloud lifting in correspondence.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe one word regarding the maintenance, because I guess, yes, this is an important
factor in all the module -- in all the models. I mean, look, there are certain parts of an ERP; as Ialso a BW system. And for example, a BW system is not so easily replaced. There is also a lot of
custom code build. It's a massive reporting engine. And with Datasphere and with our partners,
we, of course, are also now more-and-more shifting this to the Cloud.
Will all BWs completely migrate into the Cloud by 2027? No. Yes, but we will, of course, partially
replace them over time. So it's fair to assume that, of course, some maintenance revenue will
also be after 2027. That's all moduled in. And I want to see now with Business AI, there upside in
accelerating the move of our install base, because every customer now finally gets it that in the
Cloud, there's so much innovation, there's also with AI differentiation. So I actually expect that we
see a further acceleration of our install base move to the Cloud.
Q - `James Goodman, Barclays Capital `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, James. We have time for two more questions. So we'll take the next one, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Mohammed Moawalla with Goldman Sachs International.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you. I had two quick ones, if I may. First one for Dominik. You talked about kind of a
minimal amount of the transformation charge taken in Q1. How should we think of the phasing of
that over the course of the year? And I kind of understand that you're still kind of in discussion
with kind of affected employees, and how should that kind of phase through the course of the
year?
And then secondly, for Dominik as well, you alluded to earlier in the year that your kind of 2025
guidance still doesn't assume any significant working capital kind of improvements. But I know
there's seasonality in the working capital, particularly in Q1. Are there any kind of plans or
initiatives, whether it's around sort of shifting the kind of invoicing to annual or other kind of
collections that levers that you can press on? And would you be inclined to perhaps pass on
some of those savings elsewhere in investments in the business? Or could that be seen as a
potential upside risk? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, thanks. A lot of questions in one go, so to speak, almost like a planning discussion. So in
terms of phasing, what I mentioned is that of the EUR2.2 billion accrued for restructuring, very
little, if anything, has been kind of paid already in Q1. So I talked about the cash out as opposed
to the accrual. The accrual has been taken. And we said the vast majority of the accruals we
currently expect have been taken in Q1. The program will run throughout the year and actually into
Q1 2025. So it's not the final number yet. There are voluntary programs in there, where we have
to wait for the acceptance rate. There's still negotiation with social partners. I did mention that in
the U.S., we actually had very high acceptance rates, which kind of drove that accrual up a little bit.
Also, the share price increase has driven the accrual up a little bit, because obviously, we have to
compensate more for the entitlements of the people that are leaving, because they're good
leavers if we want them to leave, so to speak. And -- but we also said that, let's see what'scoming beyond that, if anything. Of course, we will only go for more reductions than what we've
planned in case there is a good business case. Otherwise, it wouldn't make sense. So I think you
can rest assured on that one.
Now, with regards to the cash flow 2025, you mentioned that we have been not super-
aggressive in terms of working capital improvements in 2025. We are making some progress, as
we speak. I want to caution that we have really a very comprehensive transformation program
and really, executing the headcount reductions is of utmost importance. So that's the key priority
right now. There are certainly opportunities.
We did mention that the 10 -- sorry, the EUR8 billion free cash flow ambition for 2025 was
assuming no spillover of restructuring cash out into 2025. So that is kind of a potential risk there
that if we spillover some cash out from 2024 or restructuring into 2025, that will weigh on that.
But then the question is, I mean, to what degree can we offset?
So I don't want to kind of go into more details at that point in time, but obviously, this is one of
the questions. As we mature our restructuring program with more clarity on how many people are
leaving, at what cost, with the phasing of the cash out, we can sharpen the pencil and update you
later.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And maybe one word from my side on the workforce transformation. I mean, it's -- as
Dominik is saying, yes, we are a little bit ahead after we started a restructuring program on
people leaving SAP, and we do this in a very controlled manner. We have identified the job
profiles, which we either reskill or actually want to reduce also via restructuring.
And then second, we bring all the data scientists and new capabilities also on board for the
platform, yes, which we need to capture our future growth opportunity. And if there are more
leavers, of course, the business case needs to make sense. So you can actually expect that we
also then, of course, manage this also tightly in the next quarters.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Mo.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Goldman Sachs International `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
We will take one final question now.
Operator
Yes, the final question for today comes from the line of `Charles Brennan, Jefferies Group, LLC. with Jefferies. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Jefferies Group, LLC. `
Great. Thanks very much for squeezing me in. I was wondering if you could just say something
very quickly about the Cloud incentives that you rolled out in Q1. I know you started those in Q4 of
last year. It sounds like they were a bit more extensive in the quarter. Do you think that mademuch of an impact to the accelerating CCB? And I know the incentives were only for the first year
of the transformation. Does that actually act as a potentially a headwind to the CCB?
And then secondly, can I just squeeze a financial clarification in -- just on the stock-based comp. I
think you said it was EUR100 million incremental charge in the quarter. But what are you assuming
on a full year basis and in your unchanged EBIT guidance, what's helping to offset that higher
share-based comp? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, Scott, I can go first and please build on it. I mean, first of all, on the migration incentives, I
guess, the major change which we did, which is not impacting margins, is that we are not only
incentivizing now anymore S/4HANA Finance, but we're incentivizing Cloud ERP, as we have to
also move our monolithic ERP on-premise system to the Cloud. And there we are talking about
HR, travel, procurement, all the modules I mentioned already at the beginning of the call. And
they are now also incentivized to migrate, which just makes a ton of sense, because you actually
have a one-time migration fund, but then you actually have building a recurring revenue stream.
And these deals, you also see it in the multiple, the multiple has -- not going down, are extremely
healthy. And then while you have this one-time efforts on the migration fund, you see then the
recurring revenue coming in, the cross-sell, the up-sell we do over the course of the years.
So I actually see this as a very positive incentive for our customers. And it will also, of course, also
help us, yes, to further expand our footprint in the installed base.
Scott?
A - `Scott Russell, Chief Revenue Officer `
Yes, I think just two things to add to what you described, Christian. The first is, these customers,
many of these customers have invested heavily with SAP over a long period of time. And we
acknowledge that with those investments made in the past, our role about helping them on the
transformation becomes more important than ever.
So the transformation incentive to be able to migrate is a part of a broader picture, helping them
on an ongoing roadmap, driving to that CLEAN CORE architecture, making sure they can leverage
the Business AI. So it not just provides a financial benefit, but it's also the role and the method
and the tooling that SAP brings to help them on that journey. And the truing combination then
becomes a more compelling factor for customers to drive.
And then secondly, it can be applied in multiple ways. So the incentive can be used against not
only on the -- maybe their maintenance, but also for services and for other capabilities, including
our ecosystem partners to help them drive that.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And one last word on the TCO and on Cloud gross margin. I mean, you have seen, if you
would now exclude the stock-based and the higher share price in Q1, actually we have a very
healthy expansion of our Cloud gross margin. And what is coming from a TCO perspective in the
next weeks, months, quarters, is we are now embedding ARM processors into our solutions. We
are moving more-and-more of our solutions also now to HANA Cloud in a non-disruptive way. It's
already all baked in also cost-wise in our guidance, which will also give us enormously more scale
to also balance peak workloads much better in the future.And then when you look at the RISE journey, I mean, the customers are now at 20% to 30% of the
migration done, yes. And of course, the more workloads you're putting on the architecture, on
the infrastructure, the more economies of scale you are getting. So we are also very happy with
the progress we are seeing on margin, especially profits in the private cloud. And so now actually
we -- I'm very confident also about a further gross margin expansion then also not only this year,
but also in the years to come.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe on the stock-based compensation, Charles. So the kind of EUR135 million increase was
kind of the order of magnitude which was unexpected, because we actually said that we had
EUR2.2 billion stock-based compensation last year in 2023. We said that in our Ambition update
when we included stock-based compensation, we included about EUR2 billion in 2025. We also
said that 2024 will be somewhere in the middle. What we now see that because of that very, very
strong share price increase in Q1, that kind of EUR135 million increase will basically feed through
the year.
Why don't we think that will reoccur? Because simply there are two parts to that, which drove it
up. One is the exceptionally-high increase in the share price. I mean, if you think about the 29%,
30% we've seen in Q1, and you compare it to the normal standard deviation you have in any
given quarter over the last 10, 20 years, it's actually a 2.3 to 2.4 standard deviation variance. So it
happens once every 100 quarters actually from a statistical point of view.
Secondly, we are losing the sensitivity, so to speak, because this was the last kind of fully cash-
settled tranche under this Move 2021 program, which is by far the largest. And as we move to
more equity-settled, which is not flowing through the P&L, we don't expect that sensitivity to stay
so high. So now yes, we did compensate to a certain degree in our guidance, and that's simply
that we kind of grind on all corners to see how we can make up for that, because we don't want
to kind of be burdened by that but compensate.
It also demonstrates how important it is to embark stock-based compensation in the overall
equation. It's a real factor, and actually it becomes more-and-more valuable the better the
company performs. So from that perspective, I think, it was the right decision to make sure we
manage it holistically, the cost base, including stock-based compensation.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Charlie, for your question.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Jefferies Group, LLC. `
Perfect. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Christian, Scott, and Dominik, and we will conclude the call for today. Thanks for joining.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Bye-bye.