Q1 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
(Call starts abruptly) First Quarter 2024 Q&A Webcast. My name is `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations, VP of Investor
Relations and I'm joined today by `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer, `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer, and a number of other executives.
Our Q1 results were announced at about 3 p.m. Central Time in the update deck we published at
the same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events and results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC.
During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and
one follow-up. Please use the raise hand button to join the question queue. But before we jump
into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Martin. So to recap, in Q1, we navigated several unforeseen challenges as well as the
ramp of the updated Model 3 in Fremont. There was -- as people have seen, the EV adoption
rate globally is under pressure, and a lot of other auto manufacturers are pulling back on EVs and
pursuing plug-in hybrids instead. We believe this is not the right strategy, and electric vehicles will
ultimately dominate the market.
Despite these challenges, the Tesla team did a great job executing in a tough environment, and
energy storage deployments, the Megapack in particular, reached an all-time high in Q1, leading
to record profitability for the energy business. And that looks likely to continue to increase in the
quarters and years ahead. It will increase, we actually know that it will. So significantly faster thanWe also continue to expand our AI training capacity in Q1, more than doubling our training
compute sequentially. In terms of the new product roadmap, there's been a lot of talk about our
upcoming vehicle line in the past several weeks. We've updated our future vehicle lineup to
accelerate the launch of new models ahead. I previously mentioned start of production in the
second half of 2025, so we expect it to be more like the early 2025, if not late this year.
These new vehicles, including more affordable models, will use aspects of the next generation
platform as well as aspects of our current platforms, and will be able to be produced on the
same manufacturing lines as our current vehicle lineup. So it's not contingent on any new factory
or massive new production line, it'll be made on our current production lines much more
efficiently. And we think this should allow us to get to over 3 million vehicles of capacity when
realized to the full extent.
Regarding FSD Version 12, which is the pure AI-based self-driving vehicle, if you haven't
experienced this, I strongly urge you to try it out. It's profound, and the rate of improvement is
rapid. So -- and we've now turned that on for all cars with the cameras and inference computer,
everything from Hardware 3 on in North America. So it's been pushed out to I think around 1.8
million vehicles, and we're seeing about half of people use it so far, and that percentage is
increasing with each passing week.
So we now have over 300 billion miles that have been driven with FSD V12. Since the launch of full
self-driving -- supervised full self-driving, it's become very clear that the vision-based approach
with end-to-end neural networks is the right solution for scalable autonomy. It's really how humans
drive. Our entire road network is designed for biological neural nets and eyes. So naturally,
cameras and digital neural nets are the solution to our current road system. To make it more
accessible, we've reduced the subscription price to $99 a month, so it's easy to try out. And as
we've announced, we'll be showcasing our purpose-built robotaxi or Cybercab in August.
Yes. Regarding AI compute, over the past few months, we've been actively working on
expanding Tesla's core AI infrastructure. For a while there, we were training-constrained in our
progress. We are, at this point, no longer training-constrained, and so we're making rapid
progress. We've installed and commissioned, meaning they're actually working, 35,000 H100
computers or GPUs -- GPU is the wrong word, they need a new word. I always feel like a wince
when I say GPU because it's not GPU stands -- G stands for graphics, and it doesn't do graphics.
But anyway, roughly 35,000 H100s are active, and we expect that to be probably 85,000 or
thereabouts by the end of this year; and training, just for training. We are making sure that we're
being as efficient as possible in our training. It's not just about the number of H100s, but how
efficiently they're used.
So in conclusion, we're super excited about our autonomy roadmap. I think it should be obvious
to anyone who's driving a Version 12 in a Tesla that it is only a matter of time before we exceed
the reliability of humans, and not much time at that. And we're really headed for an electric
vehicle, an autonomous future.
And I'll go back to something I said several years ago, that in the future, gasoline cars that are not
autonomous will be like riding a horse and using a flip phone, and that will become very obvious
in hindsight. We continue to make the necessary investments that will drive growth and profits for
Tesla in the future. And I wanted to thank the Tesla team for incredible execution during this
period and look forward to everything that we have planned ahead. Thanks.
`Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `Thank you very much. And Vaibhav has some comments as well.
`Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks. It's important to acknowledge what Elon said from our auto business perspective. We did
see a decline in revenues quarter-over-quarter, and those were primarily because of seasonality,
uncertain macroeconomic environment, and the other reasons which Elon had mentioned earlier.
Auto margins declined from 18.9% to 18.5%, excluding the impact of Cybertruck. The impact of
pricing actions was largely offset by reductions in per unit cost and the recognition of revenue
from Autopark feature for certain vehicles in the U.S. that previously did not have that functionality.
Additionally, while we did experience higher cost due to the ramp of Model 3 in Fremont and
disruptions in Berlin, these costs were largely offset by cost reduction initiatives. In fact, if we
exclude Cybertruck and Fremont Model 3 ramp costs, the revenue from Autopark -- auto margins
improved slightly. Currently, normalized Model Y cost per vehicle in Austin and Berlin are already
very close to that of Fremont.
Our ability to reduce costs without sacrificing on quality was due to the amazing efforts of the
team in executing Tesla's relentless pursuit of efficiency across the business. We've also
witnessed that as other OEMs are pulling back on their investments in EV, there is increasing
appetite for credits, and that means a steady stream of revenue for us. Obviously, seeing others
pull back from EV is not the future we want. We would prefer if the whole industry went all in.
On the demand front, we've undertaken a variety of initiatives, including lowering the price of
both the purchase and subscription options for FSD, launching extremely attractive leasing
specials for the Model 3 in the U.S. for $299 a month, and offering attractive financing options in
certain markets. We believe that our awareness activities, paired with attractive financing, will go a
long way in expanding our reach and driving demand for our products.
Our energy business continues to make meaningful progress with margins reaching a record of
24.6%. We expect the energy storage deployments for 2024 to grow at least 75% higher from
2023. And accordingly, this business will begin contributing significantly to our overall profitability.
Note that there is a bit of lumpiness in our storage deployments due to a variety of factors that
are outside of our control. So deployments may fluctuate quarter-over-quarter.
On the operating expense front, we saw a sequential increase from our AI initiatives, continued
investment in future projects, marketing and other activities. We had negative free cash flow of
$2.5 billion in the first quarter. The primary driver of this was an increase in inventory from a
mismatch between builds and deliveries, as discussed before, and our elevated spend on CapEx
across various initiatives, including AI compute. We expect the inventory build to reverse in the
second quarter and free cash flow to return to positive again.
As we prepare the company for the next phase of growth, we had to make the hard but
necessary decision to reduce our headcount by over 10%. The savings generated are expected
to be well in excess of $1 billion on an annual run rate basis. We are also getting hyper-focused on
CapEx efficiency and utilizing our installed capacity in a more efficient manner. The savings from
these initiatives, including our cost reductions, will help improve our overall profitability, and
ultimately, enable us to increase the scale of our investments in AI.
In conclusion, the future is extremely bright, and the journey to get there, while challenging, will
be extremely rewarding. Once again, I would like to thank the whole Tesla team for delivering
great results, and we can open it up to Q&A.Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. Okay, let's start with investor Q&A. The first question is what is the status of 4680?
What is the current output? Lars?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Sure. 4680 production increased about 18%, 20% over -- from Q4, reaching greater than 1,000 a
week for Cybertruck, which is about 7-gigawatt hours per year, as we posted on X. We expect to
stay ahead of the Cybertruck ramp with the cell production throughout Q2, as we ramp the third
of four lines in Phase 1, while maintaining multiple weeks of cell inventory to make sure we're
ahead of the ramp. Because we're ramping, COGS continues to drop rapidly week over week,
driven by yield improvements throughout the lines, and production volume increases. So our goal,
and we expect to do this, is to beat supplier costs of nickel-based cells by the end of the year.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. The second question is on Optimus. So what is the current status of Optimus? Are
they currently performing any factory tasks? When do you expect to start mass production?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We are able to do simple factory tasks, or at least, I should say, factory tasks, in the lab. The -- in
terms of actually -- we do think we will have Optimus in limited production in the factory, in the
actual factory itself, doing useful tasks before the end of this year. And then I think we may be
able to sell it externally by the end of next year. These are just guesses. As I've said before, I
think Optimus will be more valuable than everything else combined, because if you've got a
sentient humanoid robot that is able to navigate reality and do tasks at request, there is no
meaningful limit to the size of the economy. So that's what's going to happen.
And I think Tesla is best positioned of any humanoid robot maker to be able to reach volume
production with efficient inference on the robot itself. I mean, this perhaps is a point that is worth
emphasizing. Tesla's AI inference efficiency is vastly better than anyone -- any other company.
Look, there's no company even close to the inference efficiency of Tesla. We've had to do that
because we were constrained by the inference hardware in the car. We didn't have a choice. But
that will pay dividends in many ways.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. The third question is, what is Tesla's current assessment of the pathway towards
regulatory approval for unsupervised FSD in the U.S.? And how should we think about the
appropriate safety threshold compared to human drivers?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
I can start. There are a handful of states that already have adopted autonomous vehicle laws.
These states are paving the way for operations, while the data for such operations guides a
broader adoption of driverless vehicles. I think Ashok can talk a little bit about our safetymethodology, but I expect that these states and the work ongoing, as well as the data that we're
providing, will pave the way for a broad-based regulatory approval in the U.S., at least, and then
other countries as well.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. It's actually been pretty helpful that other autonomous car companies have been cutting a
path through the regulatory jungle. But the -- which is sort of -- that's actually quite helpful. And
they have obviously been operating in San Francisco for a while. I think they got approval for the
city of L.A. So these approvals are happening rapidly.
I think if you've got, at scale, a statistically significant amount of data that shows conclusively that
the autonomous car has, let's say, half the accident rate of a human-driven car, I think that's
difficult to ignore because at that point, stopping autonomy means killing people. So I actually do
not think that there will be significant regulatory barriers, provided there is conclusive data that
the autonomous car is safer than a human-driven car.
And in my view, this will be much like elevators. Elevators used to be operated by a guy with a
relay switch, but sometimes that guy would get tired or drunk or just make a mistake and shear
somebody in half between floors. So now, we just get in an elevator and press a button, we don't
think about it. In fact, it's kind of weird if somebody is standing there with a relay switch. That'll be
how cars work. You just summon a car using your phone, you get in, it takes you to a destination.
You get out.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
You don't even think about it.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
You don't even think about it, just like an elevator. It takes you to your floor. That's it. Don't think
about how the elevator is working or anything like that. And something I should clarify is that Tesla
will be operating the fleet. So you can think of like how Tesla -- think of Tesla like, I don't know,
some combination of Airbnb and Uber, meaning that there'll be some number of cars that Tesla
owns itself and operates in the fleet, there'll be some number of cars -- and then there'll be a
bunch of cars where they're owned by the end user. But that end user can add or subtract their
car to the fleet whenever they want. And they can decide if they want to only let the car be used
by friends and family or only by five-star users or by anyone.
At any time, they could have the car come back to them and be exclusively theirs, like an Airbnb.
You could rent out your guest room or not, anytime you want. So as our fleet grows, we have 7
million cars going to 9 million cars going to eventually tens of millions of cars worldwide with a
constant feedback loop. Every time something goes wrong, that gets added to the training data,
and you get this training flywheel happening in the same way that Google Search has the sort of
flywheel. It's very difficult to compete with Google because people are constantly doing searches
and clicking, and Google is getting that feedback loop.
It's the same with Tesla, but at a scale that is maybe difficult to comprehend, but ultimately, it'll be
tens of millions. I think there's also some potential here for an AWS element down the road,
where if we've got very powerful inference, because we've got a Hardware 3 in the cars, but now
all cars are being made with Hardware 4. Hardware 5 is pretty much designed and should be in
cars hopefully towards the end of next year. And there's a potential to have for the -- to run --
when the car is not moving, to actually run distributed inference. So kind of like AWS, butdistributed inference, like, it takes a lot of computers to train an AI model, but many orders of
magnitude less compute to run it.
So if you can imagine future perhaps where there's a fleet of 100 million Teslas, and on average,
they've got like maybe a kilowatt of inference compute, that's 100 gigawatts of inference
compute distributed all around the world. It's pretty hard to put together 100 gigawatts of AI
compute. And even in an autonomous future where the car is perhaps used -- instead of being
used 10 hours a week is used 50 hours a week, that still leaves over a 100 hours a week where
the car inference computer could be doing something else. And it seems like it would be a waste
not to use it.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Ashok, do you want to chime in on the air process and safety?
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Yes, we have multiple tiers of validating the safety. In any given week, we train hundreds of neural
networks that can produce different trajectories for how to drive the car. They play them through
the millions of clips that we have already collected from our users and our own QA. Those are,
like, critical events, like someone jumping out in front, or like, other critical events that we have
gathered a database over many, many years. And we replay through all of them to make sure
that we are net improving safety. And on top of it, we have simulation systems that also try to
recreate this and test this in closed-loop fashion. Once all of this is validated, we give it to our
own QA drivers. We have hundreds of them in different cities in San Francisco, Los Angeles,
Austin, New York, a lot of different locations.
They are also driving this and collecting real-world miles. And we have an estimate of what are
the critical events. Are they a net improvement compared to the previous week's builds? And
once we have confidence that the build is a net-net improvement, then we start shipping to early
users, like 2,000 employees initially, that -- they would, like, get the build. They would give
feedback on, like, if it's an improvement or are they would be noting some new issues that we
did not capture in our own QA process. And only after all of this is validated, then we go to
external customers. And even when we go external, we have, like, live dashboards of monitoring
every critical event that's happening in the fleet, sorted by the criticality of it.
So we are having a constant pulse on the build's quality and the safety improvement along the
way. And then any failures like Elon alluded it to, you'd get the data back, add it to the training,
and that improves the model in the next cycle. So we have this, like, constant feedback loop of
issues, fixes, evaluations, and then rinse and repeat. And especially with the new V12 architecture,
all of this is automatically improving without requiring much engineering interventions, in the
sense that people -- engineers don't have to be creative in, like, how they code the algorithms.
It's mostly learning on its own based on data.
So you see that, okay, we fail here, or like, this is how -- a person shows this is how you drive this
intersection or something like that. They get the data back, we add it to the neural network, and it
learns from that trained data automatically, instead of some engineer saying that, oh, here, you
must rotate the steering wheel by this much or something like that. There's no hard inference
conditions, it's everything is -- neural network is very soft, it's probabilistic. And so it will adapt its
probability distribution based on the new data that it's getting.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Yes, and we do have some insight into how good the things will be in, like, let's say, three or four
months, because we have advanced models that are far more capable than what is in the car, but
have some issues with them that we need to fix. So they're like, there'll be a step change
improvement in the capabilities of the car, but it'll have some quirks that need to be addressed in
order to release it. As Ashok was saying, we have to be very careful in what we release to the
fleet or to customers in general. So like, if we look at, say, 12.4 and 12.5, which really could
arguably even be Version 13, Version 14, because it's pretty close to a total retrain of the neural
nets in each case or substantially different. So we have good insight into where the model is --
how well the car will perform in, say, three or four months.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Yes, in terms of scaling laws, people in the AI community generally talk about model scaling laws,
where they increase the model size a lot, and then they have corresponding gains in
performance. But we have also figured out scaling laws and other access. In addition to the
model size scaling, we can also have data scaling. You can increase the amount of data you use
to train the neural network, and that also gives similar gains. And you can also scale up by training
compute. You can train it for much longer, and -- or like one more GPUs, or more Dojo nodes, and
that also gives better performance.
And you can also have architecture scaling, where you come up with better architectures that, for
the same amount of compute, produce better results. So a combination of model size scaling,
data scaling, training compute scaling and the architecture scaling, we can basically extract, like,
okay, with the continuous scaling based on this ratio, we can sort of predict future performance.
Obviously, it takes time to do the experiments because it takes, a few weeks to train. It takes a
few weeks to collect tens of millions of video clips and process all of them, but you can estimate
what's going to be the future progress based on the trends that we have seen in the past. And
that's generally held true based on the past data.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you very much. Let's go to the next question, which is can we get an official
announcement of the timeline for the $25,000 vehicle?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
I think Elon mentioned it in the opening remarks, but as we mentioned, we're updating our future
vehicle lineup to accelerate the launch of our low-cost vehicles in a more CapEx-efficient way.
That's our mission, to get the most affordable cars to customers as fast as possible. These new
vehicles we built on our existing lines and open capacity, and that's a major shift, to utilize all our
capacity with marginal CapEx before we go spend high CapEx to do anything else.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we'll talk about this more on August 8th. So -- but really the way to think of Tesla is almost
entirely in terms of solving autonomy and being able to turn on that autonomy for a gigantic fleet.
And I think it might be the biggest asset value appreciation in history when that thing happens,
when you can do unsupervised full self-driving.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
5 million cars.A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
A little less. (Multiple Speakers) yes.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
It'll be 7 million cars in a year or so. Yes. And then 10 million, and then eventually, we're talking
about tens of millions of cars. Not eventually, it's like before the end of this decade. Yes, before
the end of the decade it's several tens of millions of cars, I think.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question is what is the progress of Cybertruck ramp?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
I can take that one too. Cybertruck hit 1,000 a week just a couple of weeks ago. This happened in
the first four to five months since we SOP-ed late last year. Of course, volume production is what
matters, that's what drives costs. And so our costs are dropping, but the ramp still faces like a lot
of challenges with so many new technologies, some supplier limitations, et cetera, and we'll
continue to ramp this year, just focusing on cost efficiency and quality.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. The next question, have any of the legacy automakers contacted Tesla about
possibly licensing FSD in the future?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We're in conversations with one major automaker regarding licensing FSD.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question is about the robotaxi unveil. Elon already talked about that, so we'll
have to wait till August.
The following question is about the next-generation vehicle, we already talked about that. So let's
go to the Semi. What is the timeline for scaling Semi? I think, Lars --
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
So we're finalizing the engineering of the Semi to enable like a super cost-effective, high volume
production with our learnings from our fleet -- pilot fleet and Pepsi's fleet, which we're expanding
this year marginally. In parallel, as we showed in the shareholders deck, we have started
construction on the factory in Reno. Our first vehicles are planned for late 2025 with external
customers starting in 2026.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, a couple more questions. So our favorite, can we make FSD transfer permanent until FSD is
fully delivered with Level 5 autonomy?A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
No.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, next question. What is the getting -- what is getting the production ramp at Lathrop?
Where do you see the Megapack run rate at the end of the year? Mike?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. Yes, Lathrop is ramping as planned. We have our second GA line allowing us to increase our
exit rate from 20-gigawatt hours per year to -- at the start of this year to 40-gigawatt hours per
year by the end of the year. That line is commissioned. There's really nothing limiting the ramp, so
it's given the longer sales cycles for these large projects, we typically have order visibility 12 to 24
months prior to ship date, so we're able to plan -- to build plans several quarters in advance. So
this allows us to ramp the factory to align with the business and order growth. Lastly, we'd like to
thank our customers globally for their trust in Tesla as a partner for these incredible projects.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you very much. Let's go to analyst questions. The first question comes from Toni
Sacconaghi from Bernstein. Tony, please go ahead and unmute.
Q - `Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford C. Bernstein `
Thank you for taking the question. I was just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on
kind of the new vehicles that you talked about today. Are these like tweaks on existing models,
given that they're going to be running on the same lines, or are these, like, new models? And
how should we think about them in the context of like the Model 3 Highland update? What will
these models be like relative to that? And given the quick timeframe, Model 3 Highland has
required a lot of work and a lot of retooling, maybe you can help put that all in context. Thank
you, and I have a follow-up, please.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we've said all we will on that front. So what's your follow-up?
Q - `Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford C. Bernstein `
It's a more personal one for you, Elon, which is that you're leading many important companies
right now. Maybe you can just talk about where your heart is at in terms of your interests, and do
you expect to lessen your involvement with Tesla at any point over the next three years?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Tesla constitutes the majority of my work time, and I work pretty much every day of the
week. It's rare for me to take a Sunday afternoon off. So I'm going to make sure Tesla is quite
prosperous, and it is prosperous, and it will be very much so in the future.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Let's go to `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Adam, please go ahead and
unmute.Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Okay, great. Hey, Elon. So you and your team on volume expect a 2024 growth rate notably lower
than that achieved in 2023, but what's your team's degree of confidence on growth above zero
percent? Or in other words, does that statement leave room for potentially lower sales year-on-
year?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think we'll have higher sales this year than last year.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. My follow-up, Elon, on future product. If you had nailed execution -- assuming that you nail
execution on your next-gen cheaper vehicles, more aggressive gigacastings, I don't want to say
one-piece, but getting closer to one-piece, structural pack, unboxed, 300-mile range, $25,000
price point, putting aside robotaxi, those features unique to you, how long would it take your best
Chinese competitors to copy a cheaper and better vehicle that you could offer a couple of years
from now? How long would it take your best Chinese competitors to copy that? Thanks.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, I don't know what our competitors could do, except we've done relatively better than
they have. If you look at the drop in our competitors in China's sales versus our drop in sales, our
drop was less than theirs. So we're doing well. But I think Cathie Wood said it best, really, we
should be thought of as an AI or robotics company. If you value Tesla as just like an auto company,
you would just have to -- fundamentally, it's just the wrong framework. If you ask the wrong
question, then the right answer is impossible. So -- I mean if somebody doesn't believe Tesla is
going to solve autonomy, I think they should not be an investor in the company. That is -- but we
will, and we are. And then you have a car that goes from 10 hours of use a week, like an hour and
a half a day, to probably 50. But it costs the same.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
I think that's the key thing to remember, right? Especially if you look at FSD supervised. If you
didn't believe in autonomy, this should give you a preview that this is coming. It's actually getting
better day by day.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, if you've not tried the FSD 12.3, and like I said, 12.4 is going to be significantly better, and 12.5
even better than that, and we have visibility into those things, then you really don't understand
what's going on. It's not possible.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, and that's why we can't just look at just as a car company, because a car company would just
have a car. But here, we have more than a car company, because the cars can be autonomous.
And like I said, it's happening.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Yes, this is all in addition to Tesla, it's working. The AI community is just, like, increasing -- like,
improving rapidly.A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, and we're putting the actual auto in automobile. So sort of you'll be like, well, sort of, like, tell
us about future horse carriages you're making. I'm like, well, actually, it doesn't need a horse.
That's the whole point. That's really the whole point.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. The next question comes from Alex Potter from Piper Sandler. Alex, please go
ahead and unmute.
Q - `Alexander Potter, Piper Sandler `
Great, thanks. Yes, so couldn't agree more. The thesis hinges completely on AI, the future of AI,
full self-driving, neural net training, all of these things. In that context, Elon, you've spoken about
your desire to obtain 25% voting control of the company. And I understand completely why that
would be. So I'm not necessarily asking about that, I'm asking if you've come up with any
mechanism by which you can ensure that you'll obtain that level of voting control, because if not,
then the core part of the thesis could potentially be at risk. So any additional commentary you
might have on that topic?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think no matter what Tesla -- even if I get kidnapped by aliens tomorrow, Tesla will solve
autonomy. Maybe a little slower, but it would solve autonomy for vehicles at least. I don't know if it
would win with respect to Optimus or with respect to future products. But it would -- but there's
enough momentum for Tesla to solve autonomy, even if I disappeared, for vehicles.
Q - `Alexander Potter, Piper Sandler `
Okay.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Now, there's a whole range of things we can do in the future beyond that. I'd be more reticent
with respect to Optimus, if we have a super sentient humanoid robot that can follow you indoors
and that you can't escape, we're talking Terminator level risk, then yes, I'd be uncomfortable with
-- if there's not some meaningful level of influence over how that is deployed. And if those
shareholders have an opportunity to ratify or re-ratify the sort of competition, I guess I can't say
that, but that is a fact, they have an opportunity.
Q - `Alexander Potter, Piper Sandler `
Okay, very good.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
And yes, we'll see if the company generates a lot positive cash flow, we can obviously buy back
shares.
Q - `Alexander Potter, Piper Sandler `
All right, that's actually all very helpful context. Thank you. Maybe one final question, and I'll pass it
on. OpEx reductions, thank you for quantifying the impact there. I'd be interested also inpotentially more qualitative discussion of what the implications are for these headcount
reductions. What are the types of activities that you're presumably sacrificing as a result of
parting ways with these folks? Thanks very much.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
So like we said, we've done these headcount reductions across the board. And as companies
grow over time, there are certain redundancies, there's some duplication of efforts, which
happens in certain areas. So you need to go back and look at where all these pockets are, get rid
of it. So we're basically going through that exercise wherein we're like, hey, how do we set this
company right for the next phase of growth? And the way to think about it is any tree which
grows, it needs pruning. This is the pruning exercise which we went through. And at the end of it,
we'll be much stronger and much more resilient to deal with the future, because the future is
really bright, like I said in my opening remarks, we just have to get through this period and get
there.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we're not giving up anything that is significant that I'm aware of. So we've had a long period
of prosperity from 2019 to now. And so if a company sort of organizationally is 5% wrong per
year, that accumulates to 25%, 30% of inefficiency. We've made some corrections along the way,
but it is time to reorganize the company for the next phase of growth. And you really need to
reorganize it, just like a human when we start off as one cell and become a zygote and a
blastocyst and you start growing arms and legs and briefly you have a tail. And so --
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
But you shed the tail.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
You shed the tail, hopefully. And then you're a baby. Basically, you have to be different. The
organism -- a company is kind of like a creature growing, and if you don't reorganize it for
different phases of growth, it will fail. You can't have the same organizational structure if you're 10
cells versus 100 versus a million versus a billion versus a trillion, where humans are like around 35
trillion cells. It doesn't feel like, it feels like one person, but you're basically a walking cell colony of
roughly 35 trillion, depending on your body mass, and about 3x that number in bacteria. So
anyway, you've got to reorganize the company for a new phase of growth or it will fail to achieve
that growth.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Mark, please go ahead and unmute.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thanks very much for taking the question. The company had previously
characterized potential FSD licensing discussions as in the early phase and some OEMs had not
really been believing in it. Can you elaborate on how much the licensing business opportunity you
mentioned today has progressed? And is there anything Tesla needs to achieve with the
technology in terms of product milestones in order to be successful at reaching a licensing
agreement in your view?Well, I think it just needs to be obvious that our approach is the right approach. And I think it is. I
think now with 12.3, if you just have the car drive you around, it is obvious that our solution with a
relatively low cost, inference computer, and standard cameras can achieve self-driving. No
LIDARs, no RADAR, no ultrasonics, nothing.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
No heavy integration work for vehicle manufacturers.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So it would really just be a case of having them use the same cameras and inference
computer and licensing our software. And -- but it once becomes obvious that if you don't have
this in a car, nobody wants your car. It's like it's a smart car. I mean, I still remember back when
Nokia was king of the hill, yes, crushing, and then I saw them come out with a smartphone that
was basically a brick with limited functionality. And then the iPhone and Android. But people still
did not understand that all the phones are going to be that way. There's not going to be any flip
phones, there'll be a niche product.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Or home phones.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, not even -- Exactly. When was the last time you saw a home phone?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
I have no idea. Maybe a hotel. Sometimes in a hotel.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, the hotels have them. Yes. So the people don't understand all cars will need to be smart cars
or you will not sell -- the car will not -- nobody will buy it. Once that becomes obvious, I think
licensing becomes not optional.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Becomes a method of survival.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it's licensed or nobody will buy your car.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
One other thing which I'll add is, in the conversations which we've had with some of these OEMs,
I just want to also point out that they take a lot of time in their product lifecycle.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `They're talking about years before they will put it in their product. We might have a licensing deal
earlier than that, but it takes a while. So this is where the big difference between us and them is,
right?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, really, a deal signed now would result in it being in a car probably three years.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
That would be early.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, that's like lightning, basically.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
That's being an eager OEM.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So I mean, I wouldn't be surprised if we do sign a deal. I think we have good chance we do
sign a deal this year, maybe more than one. But yes, it would be probably three years before it's
integrated with a car, even though all you need is cameras and our inference computer. So just
talking about a massive design change.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And again, just to clarify, it's not the work which we have to do, it's the work which they have
to do, which takes time.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Mark, do you have a follow-up?
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Yes. Very helpful, thank you. My follow-up to better understand Tesla's approach to pricing going
forward. Previously, the company had said that the price reductions were driving incremental
demand. With how affordable the cars have become, especially for vehicles that have access to
IRA credits and some of the leasing offers that Tesla has in place, do you still see meaningful
incremental price reductions as making sense from here for the existing products? And can the
company meaningfully lower prices from here and also stay free cash flow positive on an annual
basis with the current product set? Thanks.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think we can be free cash flow positive meaningfully.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yes. I think Vaibhav said it in his opening remarks, like, our cost down efforts, we basically were
offsetting the price cut --A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
That's what I was going to say.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Like, we're trying to give it back to the customers.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, at the end of the day, like for any given company, if you sell a great product at a
great price, if you have a great product at a great price, the sales will be excellent. That's true of
any arena. So over time, we do need to keep making sure that it's a great product at a great
price, and moreover, that, that price is accessible to people. So it's not -- you have to solve both
the value for money and the fundamental affordability question.
The fundamental affordability question is sometimes overlooked. If somebody is earning several
hundred thousand dollars a year, they don't think of a car from a fundamental affordability
standpoint, but vast majority of people are living paycheck to paycheck. So it actually makes a
difference if the cost per month for lease or financing is $10 one way or the other. So it is
important to keep improving the affordability and to keep this sort of like making the price --
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
More accessible.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, exactly, the price more accessible, the value for money better, and to keep improving that
over time.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
But also to make kick-ass cars that people want to buy.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. It's got to be a great product at a great price. And the standards for what constitutes a great
product at a great price keep increasing. So there's like -- you can't just be static. You have to
keep making the car better, improving the price of it, improving the cost of production. And that's
what we're doing.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And in fact, like I said in my opening remarks also, like the revised -- the updated Model 3 is
a fantastic car. I don't think people fully even understand the amount of engineering effort which
has gone, and Lars and team have actually put out videos explaining how much the car is
different, I mean, it looks and feels different. Not only it looks and feels different, we've added so
much value to it, but you can lease it for like as low as $299 a month.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yes. Without gas.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `Yes.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
All right. The next question comes from George from Canaccord. George, please go ahead and
unmute.
Q - `George Gianarikas, Canaccord Genuity `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. First, can you please help us understand maybe some of
the timing of launching FSD in additional geographies, including maybe clarifying your recent
comment about China? Thank you.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
You mean like new markets? Yes, there are a bunch of markets where we don't currently sell cars
that we should be selling cars in. We'll see some acceleration of that --
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
And FSD in new markets?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So the thing about the end-to-end neural net-based autonomy is that, just like a human, it
actually works pretty well without modification in almost any market. So we plan on, with the
approval of the regulators, releasing it as a supervised autonomy system in any market that --
where we can get regulatory approval for that, which we think includes China. So yes, it's just like
a human, you can go rent a car in a foreign country and you can drive pretty well. Obviously, if you
live in that country, you'll drive better. And so, we'll make the car drive better in these other
countries with country-specific training. But it can drive quite well almost everywhere.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
The basics of driving are basically the same everywhere. Like a car is a car, there is the traffic light,
road is the road.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And understands that it shouldn't hit things no matter where it is.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly. There are some road rules that you need to follow, and in China, you shouldn't cross over
a solid line to do a lane change. The U.S. has a recommendation, I think. China, yes, you get fined
heavily if you do that. We have to do some reductions, but it's mostly smaller reductions, not like
an entire change of stack or something like that.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Operator
Hey, George, do you have a follow-up?Q - `George Gianarikas, Canaccord Genuity `
Yes. So my follow-up has to do with the first quarter deliveries, and I'm curious as to whether or
not you feel that supply constraints that you mentioned throughout the release impacted the
results, and maybe can you help us quantify that, and is that why you have some confidence in
unit growth in 2024?
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think we did cover this a little bit in the opening remarks, too. Q1 had a lot of different things
which are happening. Seasonality was a big one, continued, pressure from the macroeconomic
environment. We had attacks at our factory. We had Red Sea attacks. We're ramping Model 3.
We're ramping Cybertruck. All these things are happening. I mean, it almost feels like a
culmination of all those activities in a constrained period, and that gives us that confidence that,
hey, we don't expect these things to recur.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We think Q2 will be a lot better.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
It's just one thing after another (Multiple Speakers) crazy.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, exactly. It's just --- if you've got cars that are sitting on ships, they obviously cannot be
delivered to people. And if you've got excess demand for Model 3 or Model Y in one market, but
you don't have it there. It's like -- it's a quite -- it's an extremely complex logistics situation. So --
and I'd say, also the -- we did overcomplicate the sales process which we've just in the past week
or so have greatly simplified. So the -- it just -- it became far too complex to buy a Tesla, whereas
it should just be you can buy the car in under a minute. So we're getting back to the you can buy a
Tesla in under a minute interface from what was quite complex.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Let's go to `Colin Rusch, Oppenheimer from Oppenheimer. Colin, go ahead and unmute,
please.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Oppenheimer `
Thanks so much, guys. Given the pursuit of Tesla really as a leader in AI for the physical world, and
your comments around distributed inference, can you talk about what that approach is unlocking
beyond what's happening in the vehicle right now?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Do you want to say something?
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `Yes. I think I mentioned like the car, even when it's a full robotaxi, that's probably going to be
used around 50 hours a week.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
That's my guess. Like a third of the hours of the week.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. It could be more or less, but then there's certainly going to be some hours left for charging
and cleaning and maintenance in that world. It can do a lot of other workloads. Even right now we
are seeing, for example, these LLM companies have these like batch workloads where they send
a bunch of documents, and those are run through pretty large neural networks and take a lot of
compute to chunk through those workloads.
And now that we have already paid for this compute in these cars, it might be wise to use them
and not let them be idle, be like buying a lot of expensive machinery and letting them be idle. We
don't want that. We want to use the compute as much as possible and close to like basically
100% of the time make effective use of it.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
That's right. I think it's analogous to Amazon Web Services where people didn't expect that AWS
would be the most valuable part of Amazon when it started out as a bookstore. So that was on
nobody's radar. But they found that they had excess compute because the compute needs
would spike to extreme levels for brief periods of the year, and then they had idle compute for
the rest of the year. So then what should they do with all that excess compute for the rest of the
year? That's kind of --
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Monetize it?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, monetize it. So it seems like kind of a no-brainer to say, okay, if we've got millions and then
tens of millions of vehicles out there where the computers are idle most of the time, that we
might as well have them do something useful.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
And then -- I mean if you get, like, to the $100 million vehicle level, which I think we will at some
point get to, and you've got a kilowatt of usable compute, and maybe you're on Hardware 6 or 7
by that time, then you really -- I think you could have on the order of 100 gigawatts of usable
compute, which might be more than anyone, more than any company, probably more than any
company.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, probably, because it takes a lot of intelligence to drive the car anyway, and when it's notA - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Just like a human.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Or answering dumb questions for someone else.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We've already learned a lot about deploying workloads to these compute nodes.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And unlike laptops and our cell phones, it is totally under Tesla's control, so it's easier to
distribute the workload across different nodes as opposed to asking users for permission on their
own cell phones would be very tedious.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, you're just draining the battery on the phone.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, exactly. The battery is also loaded.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
So like, technically, I suppose, like, Apple would have the most amount of distributed compute,
but you can't use it because you can't just run the phone at full power and drain the battery.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
So -- whereas for the car, even if you're a kilowatt-level inference computer, which is crazy power
compared to a phone, if you've got a 50 or 60-kilowatt hour pack, it's still not a big deal to run.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
As long as you're plugged in.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Whether you're plugged in or not, you can be plugged in or not plugged in, you could run for 10
hours and use 10-kilowatt hours -- kilowatt of compute. Yes, we together built in liquid-cold
thermal management. That's for data centers, so it's already there in the car.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Exactly.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `So it's distributed power generation. It's distributed access to power and distributed cooling. And
it's already paid for.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I mean, that distributed power and cooling, people underestimate that costs a lot of money.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Director, Autopilot Software `
Yes, it does. And the CapEx is shared by the entire world. Sort of everyone owns a small chunk,
and they get a small profit out of it maybe.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Colin Rusch, Oppenheimer `
Thanks so much, guys. And just my follow-up is a little bit more mundane. Looking at the 4680
ramp, can you talk about how close you are to target yields and when you might start to
accelerate incremental capacity expansions on that technology?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We're making good progress on that. But I don't think it's super important for at least the near-
term. As Lars said, we think it will be -- exceed the competitiveness of suppliers by the end of this
year, and then we'll continue to improve.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yes. I mean, I think it's important to note also that, like, the ramp right now is relevant to the
Cybertruck ramp.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
And so, like, we're not going to just randomly build 4680s once we have a place to put them.
And so we're going to, make sure we're prudent about that. But we also have a lot of
investments with all our self-suppliers and vendors. And they're great partners, and they have
done great development work with us. And a lot of the advancements in technologies and
chemistry we found in 4680, they're also putting into their cells.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, a big part of the 4680, Tesla doing internal cells was a hedge against what would
happen with our suppliers, because for a while there, it was very difficult, because every big
carmaker put in massive battery orders. And so the price per kilowatt hour of lithium-ion batteries
went to crazy numbers, to crazy levels.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Bonkers.A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Just bonkers. So like, okay, we've got to have some hedge here to deal with cost per
kilowatt hours, numbers that were double what we anticipated. If we have an internal cell
production, then we have that hedge against the demand shocks that was too much demand.
That's really the way to think about it. It's not like we want to take on a whole bunch of problems
that just for the hell of it. We did the cell program in order to address the crazy increase in cost
per kilowatt hour from our suppliers due to gigantic orders placed by every carmaker on Earth,
so.
Operator
So. Okay. Thank you. And the last question comes from Ben Kallo from Baird. Ben, go ahead and
unmute. And you're still muted.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I, once again, would just like to strongly recommend that anyone who is, I guess, thinking
about the Tesla stock should really drive FSD 12.3. You really -- you can't -- it's impossible to
understand the company if you do not do this.
Operator
All right. So since Ben is not unmuting, let's try `Shreyas Patil, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Final question.
Q - `Shreyas Patil, Wolfe Research `
Hey. Thanks so much. Just, Elon, during the Investor Day last year, you mentioned that auto COGS
per unit for the next-gen vehicle would decline by 50% versus the current 3 and Y. I think that was
implying something around $20,000 of COGS. About a third of that was coming from the
unboxed manufacturing process. But I'm curious if you see an opportunity that some of the other
drivers around powertrain cost reduction or material cost savings, would those be largely
transferable to some of the new products that you're now talking about introducing?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yes. Yes, sure. I mean, in short, yes. I mean, like, the unboxed manufacturing method is certainly
great and revolutionary, but with it comes some risk, because it's new production lines and all
that. But all the subsystems we developed, whether it was powertrains, drive units, battery
improvements in manufacturing and automation, thermal systems, seating, integration of interior
components and reduction of LV controllers, all that's transferable, and that's what we're doing,
trying to get it into our products as fast as possible. And so, yes, that engineering work, we're not
trying to just throw it away and put it in a coffin. We're going to take it and utilize it, utilize it to the
best advantage of the cars we make and the future cars we make.
Q - `Shreyas Patil, Wolfe Research `
Okay, great. And then just on that topic of 4680 cells, I know you mentioned it. You really thought
of it more as like a hedge against rising battery costs from other OEMs.But it seems -- even
today, it seems like you would have a cost advantage against some of those other automakers,
and I'm wondering given the rationalizing of your vehicle manufacturing plans that you're talking
about now, if there's an opportunity to maybe convert the 4680 cells and maybe sell those to
other automakers and really generate an additional revenue stream. I'm just curious if you haveA - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. What seems to be happening is that the, unless I'm missing something, the orders for
batteries from other automakers have declined dramatically. So we're seeing much more
competitive prices for cells from our suppliers, dramatically more competitive than in the past. It is
clear that a lot of our suppliers have excess capacity.
A - `Karn Budhiraj, Vice President, Supply Chain
Yes. In addition to what Elon -- this is Karn by the way. In addition to what Elon said about 4680s,
what 4680 did for us from a supply chain perspective was help us understand the supply chain
that's upstream of our cell suppliers. So a lot of the deals that we had struck for 4680, we can
also supply those materials to our partners, reducing the overall cost back to Tesla. So we're
basically inserting ourselves in the upstream supply chain by doing that. So that's also been
beneficial in reducing the overall pricing, in addition to the excess capacity that these suppliers
have.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Now, I mean, this is going to wax and wane, obviously. So there's going to be a boom and
bust in battery cell production where production exceeds supply, and then supply exceeds
production, and back and forth, kind of like, I don't know, DRAM or something. But -- so it's like
what is true today will not be true in the future. There's going to be somewhat of a boom and
bust cycle here. And then there are additional complications by -- with government incentives, like
the Inflation Reduction Act, the IRA, which I always found like a funny name for it.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Comical name.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Is it like the Irish Republican Army? The Internet Research Agency from Russia?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Independent Retirement Camp?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, exactly. Roth IRA. Okay. There's like four Spiderman situation, which the IRA wins. So -- but it
does complicate the incentive structure, so that there is perhaps -- there's the stronger demand
for cells that are produced in the U.S. than outside the U.S. But then how long does that, the IRA,
last? I don't know.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Which is why it's important that we have both internal sales and vendor sales to hedge against all
of this.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you very much. That's all the time we have today. But at the same time, I would like
to make a short announcement. And I wanted to let the investment community know that about a
month ago, I met up with Elon and Vaibhav and announced that I'll be moving on from the world
of Investor Relations.
I'll be hanging around for another couple of months or so. So feel free to reach out anytime. But
after this seven-year sprint, I'm going to be taking a break and spending some good quality time
with my family. And I wanted to say that these seven years have been the greatest privilege of
my professional life. I'll never forget the memories from, I started literally at the beginning of
Production Hell and just watching the company from the inside to see what it's become today.
And I'm especially super thankful to the people in this room and dozens of people outside of this
room that I've worked for over the years. I think the team strength and teamwork at Tesla is
unlike anything else I've seen in my career. Elon, thank you very much for this opportunity that I
got back in 2017. Thank you for seeking investor feedback and regularly and debating it with me.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Well, I mean, the reason I reached out to you was because I thought your analysis of Tesla
was the best that I'd seen.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
So yes, thank you for helping Tesla get to where it is today over seven years. It's been a pleasure
working with you.
A - `Martin Viecha, Senior Director for Investor Relations `
Thank you so much. And yes, thank you for all the thousands of shareholders that we've met over
the years and walked around factories and loved all the interactions even the tough ones. And
yes, looking forward to the call in the next three months, but I'll be on the other side listening in.
Thank you very much.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.