Q1 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the UK and the U.S., good afternoon to those in Central
Europe, and good evening to those listening in Asia. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to
AstraZeneca's First Quarter Results 2024 Webinar for Investors and Analysts.
Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The company
intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with respect to
the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our expectations
are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties, and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information
available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements. Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the
slide deck that accompanies this presentation and webinar. There will be an opportunity to askquestions after today's presentation. (Operator Instructions) And with that, I'll now hand you over
to the company.
`Andy Barnett, Head, Investor Relations `
A warm welcome to AstraZeneca's first quarter 2024 presentation, conference call, and webcast.
I'm `Andy Barnett, Head, Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations at AstraZeneca. And before I hand over to Pascal
and other members of the executive team, I would like to cover some important housekeeping
points.
Firstly, all of the materials presented today are available on our website. This slide contains our
Safe Harbor statement, which I'd encourage you to take the time to read. We will be making
comments on our performance using constant exchange rates, or CER, core financial numbers,
and other non-GAAP measures. A non-GAAP-to-GAAP reconciliation is contained within the results
announcement. All numbers quoted are in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated.
This shows the agenda for today's call, and following our prepared remarks, we will open the line
for questions. As usual, we will try and address as many questions as we can during the allotted
time, although I would ask participants to limit the number of questions you ask to allow others a
fair chance to participate in the Q&A.
And with that, Pascal, I will hand over to you.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy. Good day, everybody. I'm pleased to report that we have made a very strong
start in 2024. Total revenue grew by 19% in the first quarter, reflecting continued strong demand.
And core earnings per share rose by 13%. Recall the first quarter of 2023 benefited from a $240
million gain in other operating income following the divestment of Pulmicort Flexhaler in the US.
Collaboration revenue and other operating income were minimal this quarter, which makes the
EPS year-over-year growth all the more impressive. We are also pleased to announce an increase
in the annual dividend of 7% at the Annual General Meeting earlier this month. This increase is in
line with our progressive dividend policy and reflects the continuing strength of AstraZeneca's
investment proposition for shareholders.
Please advance to the next slide. We saw strong double-digit growth across our therapy areas in
the first quarter. This is also the first quarter where quarterly revenue from our oncology and
biopharma businesses exceeded $5 billion, and rare diseases exceeded $2 billion, reflecting the
value our medicines bring to patients globally. We saw 19% growth in both the U.S. and Europe
this quarter, driven by strong demand. Our business grew substantially in the emerging markets
and growth was pronounced -- especially pronounced outside of China, driven by our sustained
presence and commitment to this market.
Next slide, please. Our strong pipeline momentum has continued into 2024. We announced
positive trial results for LAURA and ADRIATIC, both of which have been selected for presentation
during the ASCO plenary, reflecting the important benefits seen for lung cancer patients. As a
reminder, there are five presentations at the plenary, so two out of five is a very unusual result.
We saw a number of exciting new approvals in the first quarter. The approval of Tagrisso in
combination with chemotherapy establishes a new benchmark for efficacy in frontline EGFR-
mutated non-small-cell lung cancer. The approval of Enhertu in previously treated HER2-positive
cancers is the first tumor-diagnostic approval for a Enhertu-directed therapy, and offers new hopeare now working on establishing Ultomiris as the new standard of care for this debilitating
disease.
These approvals further build on the momentum we are seeing from other recent approvals
listed here, and we are investing to ensure that each of these new opportunities reach full
commercial potential. ADRIATIC and LAURA, if approved, coupled with the three approvals I've
just described, and the ongoing launches, have the potential to deliver several billion dollars in
total revenue -- additional revenue in 2030. And this is what our pipeline is delivering in the first
quarter of 2024.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Aradhana, who will take you
through our first-quarter financials.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal. And as usual, I will start with our reported P&L.
Please turn to the next slide. Total revenue in the first quarter increased by 19% to $12.7 billion,
predominantly resulting from strong product sales, which grew by 18%. The underlying demand
for our medicines across the board was very strong in the quarter, across both brands and across
geographies. And Enhertu and Tezspire continued their strong growth trajectory, and as a result,
Alliance revenue increased by 59% to $457 million, driven by profit shares in regions where our
partner booked product sales.
Please turn to the next slide which shows our core P&L. The product sales core gross margin was
82% in the quarter. As previously stated, we still expect gross margin for the year to be slightly
lower than last year due to strong growth for partner medicines, including Enhertu and Tezspire,
as well as increased product supply to Sanofi for Beyfortus into the 2024-'25 RSV season. In the
second half, we see additional impact from usual seasonal impact from medicines such as
FluMist.
Total operating expense increased by 15% in the quarter. R&D spend increased by 18%, partly
driven by the Phase 3 trial starts, including our dapa combinations with baxdrostat and
balcinrenone. We continue to anticipate R&D spend will remain in the low 20s percentage of total
revenue, inclusive of investments we're making to maximize the potential medicines acquired in
recent business development transactions.
We continued to show operating leverage, supporting the 19% revenue growth, SG&A increased
by 13% in the quarter. We have seen strong initial uptake for Airsupra, Truqap, and Wainua in the
U.S., and we're investing behind this revenue growth, as well as behind our existing brands such
as Breztri and Farxiga. We're also increasing our promotional efforts behind our rare disease
medicines to support continued growth. We anticipate quarterly variations in our operating
expenses, given the dynamic nature of our business. Despite the limited contribution from other
operating income this quarter, we saw core operating profit growth of 15% and core EPS of $2.06.
Please turn to the next slide. In the first quarter, cash flow from operations was $2.5 billion. We
saw CapEx of $417 million in the quarter, and we continue to anticipate CapEx to increase by
approximately 50% on a full-year basis to support increased manufacturing capacity and support
our growth. We had deal payments of $2.9 billion, including upfront payments for Icosavax and
Gracell acquisition, both of which closed during the first quarter. We also paid the third and final
payment to the former shareholders of Acerta.Lastly, we paid the second interim dividend for 2023. At the end of our Q1, our net debt-to-
EBITDA ratio was 1.9x. We anticipate the announced Fusion and Amolyt transactions to close in the
coming months, strengthening our radiopharmaceutical capabilities and expanding our presence
in rare endocrinology. As a result of recent business development and debt refinancing, we
expect finance expenses to grow compared to prior year. Reflecting the strength of our business,
we are reiterating our full-year guidance for both total revenue and core EPS at constant
exchange rates.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Dave, who will take you
through our oncology performance.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thank you, Aradhana. Next slide, please.
Oncology total revenues grew 26% to $5.1 billion in the first quarter, driven both by double-digit
growth across all regions, and strong demand for our key medicines. Tagrisso global revenues
grew 15% in the quarter, reflecting continued global demand for ADAURA and FLAURA. Following
U.S. approval in February, we've seen strong initial interest and early uptake for FLAURA2 in the
frontline setting, with oncologists particularly focused on patients with L858R mutations and CNS
metastases at baseline.
Lynparza delivered product sales growth of 11% in the first quarter, and remains the leading PARP
inhibitor globally across all tumor types. Imfinzi total revenues grew 33% on continued strength in
biliary tract cancer with TOPAZ-1, which is now approaching peak market share penetration in the
U.S., Japan, and Europe. Launches continued at pace across emerging markets where biliary tract
incidence and prevalence is high. And as previously communicated, we recognized a 25%
mandatory price reduction in Japan effective from February 1st, and anticipate a second
mandatory price discount later this year.
For the first time, we have split out Imjudo in our reporting, and are pleased with its launch
trajectory. We've established a strong foundation in hepatocellular carcinoma with HIMALAYA and
see continued growth in non-small cell lung cancer with POSEIDON.
Calquence total revenues increased 35% in the first quarter, driven by sustained BTK inhibitor
leadership in frontline CLL across the U.S. and Europe. Enhertu total revenues increased 79% in
the first quarter, again, we drove sequential market share growth in second line HER2 positive
breast cancer in the U.S. and Europe, where considerable growth remains. We see continued
adoption in Enhertu low across many global markets, and eagerly await the DESTINY-Breast06
readout, which brings the potential for further expansion moving Enhertu one line earlier.
Following approval in November last year, we are pleased with the strong Truqap adoption in the
biomarker-altered population, achieving $50 million in the first quarter total revenues. Looking
forward, we anticipate further expansion of Tagrisso with the approval of FLAURA2 and front-line
non-small cell lung cancer, and maximizing the U.S. launch of Enhertu across HER2-expressing
tumors.
Lastly, we're excited that both ADRIATIC in Limited Stage and LAURA in Stage 3 unresectable
lung cancer have been selected for the ASCO plenary session. Each of these represents
substantial growth opportunities in the near future and beyond, as Pascal has already outlined.
With that, please advance to the next slide and I'll hand over to Susan to cover key R&D highlights
in the quarter.`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. We've had an exciting start to the year with a number of key presentations,
including data for our new generation PARP inhibitor, Saruparib, in advanced solid tumors
presented at this year's AACR.
This quarter, we announced the proposed acquisition of Fusion Pharmaceuticals, furthering our
ambition to redefine the backbone of current cancer treatment. Along with chemotherapy,
radiotherapy has been a mainstay of cancer treatment for decades. In fact, 30% to 50% of all
patients receive radiotherapy. Whilst this treatment is effective, there's also toxic off-target
effects. Fusion has developed a clinical stage portfolio of radioconjugates that are designed to
deliver radiation therapy to tumor cells in a more targeted manner than external beam radiation.
As we've discussed already, we believe the future of cancer care is in combinations, and there's
immense potential to combine radioconjugates with other modalities in our pipeline, including
next-generation IO bispecifics, cell therapy, T-cell engagers, and our DNA damage response
agents. Importantly, the planned acquisition of Fusion accelerates our radiopharmaceutical
manufacturing to commercial-scale capabilities by over three years, and offers additional security
in actinium supply with multi-source supply agreements in place.
The lead pipeline candidate, FPI-2265, has potential to be the first actinium-based PSMA-
targeted radiotherapy approved for the treatment of post-lutetium metastatic gastric-resistant
prostate cancer. FPI-2265 is differentiated and has potential to be both more potent and
tolerable than currently approved beta-emitting radioconjugates.
Data presented earlier this month at AACR demonstrated further validation of FPI-2265's efficacy
and tolerability. PSA50 response was achieved in 50% of patients overall, and in 43% of the
lutetium-treated patient population and 54% of the lutetium-naive population. Furthermore, there
were zero discontinuations related to xerostomia, a common toxicity.
We believe that our proven expertise in targeted delivery, together with Fusion's clinical stage
portfolio and manufacturing capabilities, presents an opportunity for clear leadership in the
radioconjugate space.
And with that, please advance to the next slide and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
biopharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Bio Pharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you, Susan. Next slide, please. Biopharmaceuticals delivered total revenue of $5.2 billion in
the first quarter of 2024, representing growth of 16%.
Our key underlying growth drivers remain in place, including the continued growth of the largest
cardiorenal medicine on the market, Farxiga. The increased uptake of our biological medicines in
severe asthma, and the ongoing momentum behind Breztri, our inhaled COPD medicine. In the
United States, demand for Farxiga was strong in the quarter and benefited from the launch of an
authorized generic. We saw solid growth in emerging markets despite the entry of generic
competition in some countries. Presently, we still anticipate Farxiga may be included in China VBP
in the second half of 2024.
Additionally, we saw a strong Symbicort performance in the first quarter, despite generic
pressures. This was particularly evident in emerging markets, where we saw strong underlyingdemand in both China and ex-China markets, strengthening its position as market leader in the
region.
Awareness of Airsupra continues to grow, and more than 18,000 healthcare practitioners have
prescribed this new medicine, translating into 65,000 prescriptions in the quarter. The
performance has been particularly strong among specialists. Airsupra already has over 15% of
new share prescriptions by allergists and over 10% share of prescriptions from pulmonologists. As
Airsupra is still in the first few months of launch, our revenues in quarter one did not reflect the
full extent of initial demand due to introductory discounts. These introductory discounts will fade
through the year as we continue to expand access.
Awareness is also building for Wainua, and we are very pleased to report our first revenues this
quarter, following its recent approval for ATTR polyneuropathy in the United States. Wainua has
only been available for a few weeks, but we are seeing good uptake among patients, including
some who are new to the class of medicine, and some that have switched from other brands.
Finally, we saw continued sales from Beyfortus in quarter one, albeit with the expected seasonal
drop versus quarter four. We were particularly pleased to see the real-world data coming out of
the U.S., with the Center of Disease Control reporting that Beyfortus was 90% effective at
preventing infants from being hospitalized with RSV.
Next slide, please. I will now hand over to Sharon to discuss our ongoing development program
for Wainua in ATTR cardiomyopathy, where we have the potential to reach up to 0.5 million
patients globally.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals, R&D `
Thanks, Ruud. I wanted to take the opportunity to highlight results from a 66-week analysis of
exploratory cardiac endpoints in the Phase 3 NEURO-TTRansform study of Wainua in hereditary
ATTR polyneuropathy.
In a predefined cardiac subgroup of hereditary ATTR polyneuropathy patients, treatment with a
Eplontersen showed stabilization or improvement in cardiac function and structure relative to
external placebo, including levels of NT-proBNP, a measure of cardiac stress, and a trend towards
improvement in echocardiographic parameters such as left ventricular wall thickness, diastolic,
and stroke volume. These results provide confidence in our Phase 3 CARDIO-TTRansform trial in
ATTR cardiomyopathy.
ATTR cardiomyopathy is a systemic, progressive, and fatal condition that typically leads to
progressive heart failure and often death within three to five years from disease onset. With
more than 1,400 patients enrolled, CARDIO-TTRansform is the largest, most comprehensive
ATTR cardiomyopathy study and, importantly, includes cardiovascular outcome endpoints.
In other key programs, we continued to maximize the opportunity for our best-in-class SGLT2
inhibitor, Farxiga. We have the potential to manage cardiorenal disease through three distinct
mechanisms, complementary dual mechanisms combining dapagliflozin with balcinrenone,
baxdrostat, or zibotentan. I am delighted to announce that all three combinations are now in
Phase 3.
Please move to the next slide, and I will now hand over to Marc, who will cover our rare disease
portfolio.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `Thank you, Sharon. Can I get the next slide, please? I'm delighted to report rare disease
delivered our first $2 billion total revenue quarter, up 16% year-on-year. The growth rate at CER
includes a small benefit from countries with high inflation. Growth was driven by neurology
indication, increased patient demand, and launches in new markets.
In the quarter, Ultomiris revenue grew 34%, with a vast majority of growth coming from
generalized myasthenia gravis. GMG patients grew by 41%, driven by demand in Europe, and
established rest of the world. In the U.S., we saw the highest number of new-to-brand patients in
the quarter, supported by increased promotional activities.
During the quarter, we received U.S. approval of Ultomiris in NMOSD. In the Phase 3 champion
NMOSD trial, Ultomiris demonstrated adjugated relapses over 138 weeks. Given the strength of
this data, we expect Ultomiris to be the treatment of choice for relapsing patients naive to
biologics. We expect patient on Soliris to convert to Ultomiris over the short-term.
Following approval in the U.S. and the EU of Voydeya, an add-on therapy, ensures that PNH
patients who experience clinically significant extravascular haemolysis are able to continue on
standard of care Ultomiris or Soliris.
Beyond complement, both Strensiq and Koselugo grew 21% and 18%, respectively, driven by
continued patient demand, as well as order timing in certain tender markets. Please advance to
the next slide.
During the quarter, we announced our plans to acquire Amolyt Pharma, which includes a Phase 3
asset, eneboparatide, for patients with hypoparathyroidism. Hypoparathyroidism is characterized
by deficiency in parathyroid hormone production, which results in significant dysregulation of
calcium and phosphate, leading to life-altering symptoms and complications, potentially including
chronic kidney diseases. It is one of the largest known rare diseases.
Phase 2a data from eneboparatide showed a normalization of serum calcium level, and a
reduction in dependence on daily calcium and Vitamin D supplements, both clinical priorities for
treating patients. Data also suggested that eneboparatide has the potential to restore normal
bone turnover and preserve bone mineral density. We believe eneboparatide has blockbuster
potential and anticipate data from the Phase 3 CALYPSO trial in 2025.
With that, please advance to the next slide. And I will hand back to Pascal for closing remarks.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Can I have the next slide, please.
As you have heard, our company has made a very strong start to 2024, with demand for our
medicines continuing to grow. Looking ahead, we are once again anticipating multiple pivotal trials
to reach throughout the remainder of the year. Several important potential catalysts are shown
here, as well as DESTINY-Breast06, which Dave spoke about earlier. I would like to highlight
CAPItello-281, which will be the first registrational study of Truqap in prostate cancer, an important
potential new growth driver for this medicine.
Since our full year 2023 update, we have initiated the eight pivotal trials shown here, all of which
are potentially transformative for patients and could meaningfully accelerate our growth. In
addition to the exceptional delivery from our internal pipeline, we've also been very active with
business development, building capabilities, and adding new platforms to strengthen our R&D
efforts in key areas, which we believe have the potential to radically improve patient outcomes,We're very much looking forward to sharing more details about our pipeline and the long-term
outlook for our company at our upcoming Investor Day on the 21st of May.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Please advance to the next slide, and we will go to the Q&A. As Andy mentioned at the start of
the call, please limit the number of questions you ask to allow others a fair chance to participate.
For those online, please use the raise your hand function on Zoom. And with that, let's move to
the first question, which is from `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co. at JPM. Over to you, James.
Q - `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Hello, `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan. Thanks for taking the questions. First question is on '24
guidance, so it's very strong revenue growth, 19%. In order not to grow revenues at teens per
year, it looks like you'd need to only grow at about 10% for the rest of the year. So in terms of
headwinds, we should be mindful of that would drive 9 percentage points of deceleration.
And then I heard a comment on maybe Farxiga, VBP, and Imfinzi price in Japan, but anything else,
and in particular for Farxiga, Symbicort, and Tagrisso, they were very strong this quarter. Are there
things through the year we need to watch out for or does that look quite sustainable?
And also on '24 guidance, just on OpEx, the ratios look really good today, but this is with a strong
top line before the two deals close. So if revenue growth is a little slower through the year, and
you consolidate these deals, do we need to be careful on those ratios, or can you still keep a
pretty high margin?
And if I could squeeze in a quick second question, just Eccogene and the oral GLP-1. So I believe
you've expanded at the trial and maybe taking dosing higher. So on that, what is the latest
thinking in terms of where we might see the data? I didn't see a reference to ADA. And how are
you now thinking about how competitive this product might look in terms of the weight loss and
other aspects versus some other recent readouts from competitors?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James. James, sorry, Aradhana, maybe you can take the first one. And Sharon, would
you take the second one?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thank you, James, for the question. It is obviously early in the year. And as you know,
generally, we don't update or provide more color on the guidance in first quarter.
You've seen from the reported results, the underlying trend in our revenue product sales is very,
very strong across the board. You've also mentioned some of the uncertainties that Ruud also
mentioned, as well as Dave. So those uncertainties are there for the remainder of the year.
However, if our momentum continues the way it has been in the first quarter and some of these
uncertainties on VBP pricing, et cetera, are in our favor, you can think about our product revenuesor product sales and Alliance revenues could be at the upper end of our range or higher. But
again, we're not updating our guidance at this point.
We will continue to invest in our R&D for the long-term, including the acquired products, and
continue to invest in SG&A to drive the top line momentum that you've seen.
Operating leverage continues to be a focus for us. Again, you've seen this quarter as well, 19%
revenue growth and 13% SG&A growth. And we will try to maintain stronger revenue growth than
expense growth in the coming quarters as well.
Then may be Sharon?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals, R&D `
Sure. So thank you for the question about AZD5004, our oral GLP-1 receptor agonist. We're really
excited about this molecule and its potential to treat the interrelatedness of cardiometabolic and
cardiorenal disease. You asked specifically about the Phase 1 study, and as I'm sure you're aware,
we completed, together with Eccogene, a highly controlled inpatient Phase 1 earlier this year. We
have the data in hand and look forward to presenting that at an upcoming medical conference
later this year.
You also asked about how we view the competitive position of this molecule. And recognizing
that it is a highly competitive field, we do feel very optimistic about the potential for this molecule
as a standalone as well as in combination. So when we think about how we're treating obesity
and metabolic health, I think we honestly do ourselves a disservice by referring to this as obesity.
What I'd like us to do is think about this more clearly as treating the interconnectedness of
disease. And to that end, we are uniquely well positioned to combine this orally available
molecule with other molecules in our portfolio that help address those interrelated diseases. As
an example, combining 5004 with our SGLT2 inhibitor.
So when we think about this, we can imagine that at a fixed dose, we may want one dose that
would be compatible for fixed dose combinations, and another dose that would be more
compatible for additional weight loss in obesity indications. And we'll keep that in mind as we
continue to design our clinical development programs moving forward. We have publicly stated
that we will be launching two Phase 2b studies later this year, one in obesity and one in Type-2
diabetes.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. And James, you asked a question of the dose, but you got to remember that
not everybody needs to lose the same amount of weight. And so as you target higher weight
losses, as Sharon was talking about in the obesity segment, you would expect to have to go
through a titration regimen and get to a higher dose. So it's not surprising that we would explore
different doses depending on how much weight loss patients are needing.
The next question is `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim of Guggenheim. Over to you, Seamus.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim `
Great. Thanks for the question. So I guess, Pascal, a little bit of a preview of the upcoming analyst
event, just hoping that you could provide us. That you could provide us with a little bit of color on
how you're thinking about potential for updated guidance. Is the most important factor of the
meeting really giving and helping us understand long-term visibility around revenue? Or is it moreAnd then just a second question, as we think about the three products that you've highlighted on
the biopharma side of the business, the oral PCSK9, the GLP-1, and the long-acting amylin. Just
hoping you could help us or help provide some context around -- of the three which you're most
excited about and perhaps when we might see data on all three? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
hanks, Seamus. So the first question about the Investor Day. I guess I would like to invite you to
join us in beautiful Cambridge to see more of the details of what we're going to present. But the
short answer to your question is a little bit of both. Essentially what we want to do is show people
how we are looking at what I call today, tomorrow, and the day after.
Today is, what do we intend to deliver in terms of our financial progression in '24, '25, '26?
Tomorrow is, what are the products we are going to launch that will drive our growth between
2025 and 2030? What is our strategy there? What do we intend to do with our pipeline? And
what are the products we believe are growth drivers to 2030? And the day after tomorrow is
really the sort of post-2030 period.
And what do we believe are the technologies that will shape the future of medicine in oncology
and beyond? And how are we building some of those platforms that will help us shape --
participate in shaping the future of medicine in the therapy areas where we are. So that's really
what we want to do at the Investor Day. And we also offer, for those of you who are early risers
and will be physically on site, we will also give you a chance to look around our site and
experience a little bit what we have on site.
The second question, let me give you a couple of comments, and then maybe Ruud and Sharon
could add. We are always more excited about products for which we have more advanced data.
Those three products are, of course, exciting, but we have more data for the PCSK9, which is a
very exciting product, and also more data for the oral GLP-1. Long-acting amylin is technically
interesting, but we need more data. But it certainly so far looks pretty good.
And we think we can actually, as Sharon said, with the combination of the GLP-1 and the rest of
our pipeline, not only of PCSK9 but also dapa, and also potentially baxdrostat, we can make a
difference in the segment of patients who need to lose weight, but also manage their
cardiovascular risk factors. And in the obese segment, where people need to lose 20%, 25% of
their weight, then we can look at combining our oral GLP-1 with the long-acting amylin and some
other mechanisms.
Sharon, if you want to maybe also add a little bit on how you see this pipeline.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals, R&D `
Sure, so I'll jump in on both. People often ask about which molecule I'm more excited about, and I
find that very difficult to answer, because obviously I'm very invested in all of them. But the first
one that you asked about was our oral PCSK9 inhibitor, and we are extremely excited about the
potential for this molecule.
We will be releasing Phase 1 data at an upcoming conference in the very near future, but I think
it's safe to say that we set ourselves a very high bar with this molecule. We asked that it be able
to meet a major unmet medical need. We know that despite high-intensity statins, about half the
patients with cardiovascular disease are not hitting their LDL targets. And so we asked this
molecule to be able to offer substantial lowering on top of statins, and we're very encouraged bythe data that we see. So we are actively moving forward with this molecule in clinical
development and thrilled to be sharing the data at an upcoming conference.
Relatedly, you asked about our obesity portfolio, and again, I think I would really think of it more
as our optimal weight management portfolio, in which we are exploring both incretin and non-
incretin pathways as multiple mechanisms to manage both weight and interrelated
cardiometabolic and cardiorenal disease. So we are positioned to go beyond short-term weight
loss and to deliver long-term weight management and healthy lean mass management,
addressing cardiometabolic risk and also organ protection.
And we think that we'll be able to achieve this by driving forward with multiple mechanisms in
combination, thinking about both the incretin pathways, as we've discussed earlier with 5004,
and non-incretin pathways, for example, with long-acting amylin. Long-acting amylin, as you can
imagine, is a different route of administration and we think could offer some additive benefits
outside of that that we're already seeing in the incretin pathway. So we are accelerating several
assets through Phase 1. We spoke earlier about 5004. AZD6234 is our long-acting amylin.
AZD9550 is our GLP-1 glucagon dual receptor agonist. And both of those latter two molecules
are progressing through Phase 1. We look forward to sharing the data with you when ready.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sharon. Ruud, anything you wanted to add?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Bio Pharmaceuticals Business Unit `
No, no. Good.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So let's move to the next question. `Sachin Jain, Bank of America at Bank of America. Sachin, over to you.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
Hi, there. Thanks for taking my question. `Sachin Jain, Bank of America, Bank of America. First one's for Dave on
Truqap. Strong first quarter, just any initial launch feedback?
And then I'm going to try and go to Ruud. Roche talked to $2 billion for their PI3K yesterday.
Wonder if you could talk about the relative profile of your asset relative to theirs, whether you'd
go bigger than $2 billion in breast and size the prostate opportunity that Pascal specifically called
out?
Second question's for Susan. AVANZAR is due in '25. When do we see the data that informs on
your confidence? And what I'm after there is timing of any TROP2 biomarker data. And what
should we focus on from TLO 2 at ASCO? But I think Dave you've commented too.
And then last quick question for Sharon, (inaudible) since now 25 plus, do you still plan an interim
next year? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave, do you want to start?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `Sure. Thanks, Sachin, for the question. So on Truqap, we are really pleased with the launch and
following what was a really a positive reception to the presentation of the data we've seen that
the uptake is really moving quite nicely. And I think that uptake in the biomarker population really
speaks to the need to extend endocrine based therapies. We see testing rates are well
established by NGS in the U.S., so we've got over 60% on that. And while there was a previous
standard of care with the PI3K, we're seeing that rapidly get displaced, though there's still plenty
of opportunity to continue to grow within that segment. So, demand is off to a very good start,
though I think that there's certainly much more opportunity for us to continue to grow. There's
some late line bolus that we're probably seeing within the numbers as well. But again, I think that
the underlying demand and the indication that we've got is very, very strong.
On your specific question, also around comparison to the INAVO120 data. From my and our
understanding, I think that you first have to take a look at the inclusion criteria. The inclusion
criteria are certainly different between that study and 291. In that study, the inclusion criteria only
includes patients who have progressed during or within 12 months of adjuvant ET completion. It's
also limited to the PIK3CA patient population. So if you take a look at 291 within that context, we
really have the de novo and the non-early relapsers in this second line post-CDK4/6 plus AI
setting, in addition to the fast progressors. And I see more like three quarters of the patients
falling into this de novo non-early relapser population.
So, I'm enthusiastic about the opportunity in breast cancer. I'm enthusiastic about the opportunity
also in prostate cancer. And I think you put these two together and we've got the potential for
Truqap to be a multi-blockbuster.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Okay, thanks, Dave. So for AVANZAR, again, yes, as I've said, the trial's going well, but the TROP2
biomarker data, I expect that we would be able to share those data at a Congress within the next
12 months, certainly.
And as far as ASCO goes, one thing beyond the lung cancer data that I would encourage you to
take a look at is the I-SPY2 data, which is a neoadjuvant study in breast cancer, again, looking at
the combination of dato and Imfinzi in that setting. So, I think we continue to be happy with the
profile that we're seeing for dato plus IO across the first-line settings in lung cancer. The safety is
looking very reasonable because we've got many patients now enrolled into those first-line
settings. And again, as we move this combination into the earlier lines in settings like the
neoadjuvant setting, I think both the safety and the efficacy profile look encouraging. So that's
what I would point you to at ASCO. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals, R&D `
And then your last question, I believe, was about the Eplontersen CARDIO-TTRansform trial and
our expected timeline for readout on that one.
So as I mentioned earlier today, we remain extremely optimistic and excited about the potentialstudy, which demonstrated a benefit on cardiac structure and function, which gives us additional
confidence in the potential for the molecule as we walk through the CARDIO-TTRansform study.
This molecule has the potential to be a best-in-class and transform care for patients with
amyloidosis. So to that end, we would like to give this trial the best chance for success and to be
able to read the full trial data at the 140-week time point. With that in mind, we'll continue to scan
the competitive landscape and make the appropriate decisions as we move forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. And Sachin, on part of your question, we never comment, as you know, on
interim analysis. So of course, we will not do it here either.
Next question is `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research at Wolfe. Tim, over to you.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Hi. Thanks. A couple of questions. On dato, just an update on your thinking on the lung filing in the
U.S. If the overall survival data only continues to be directionally supportive and doesn't fall below
the upper end threshold of 1, is that enough to get U.S. approval? And then what would that
mean for ex-U.S. approval? And when is that next survival lift going to occur?
And then the second question is, just emerging markets. China, obviously, has slowed from years
ago for lots of companies. What really stands out in your results is that non-China emerging
market segment, which is substantial now and continuing to grow, but it's just not clear to me
what the drivers of that are in terms of geographies and products. And therefore, what the future
growth expectations should be in those non-China markets. So, if you could add some
commentary, that'd be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So, maybe, Susan, you could take the first one.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah. So for Dato-DXd's TROPION-Lung01 study, obviously, we've announced that we have filed,
obviously, for all regulatory authorities, OS in lung cancer is an important component that they'll
want to look at. We've said that the timing of the OS data cut is around the middle of the year. As
you know already, we saw an overall trend in favor of OS on the dato arm in the ITT. But what we
also saw is in the non-squamous group, a more positive trend with the upper end of the
confidence interval just crossing 1. So, we were looking and hoping that we'll see both of those
continue or improve, and I think that will be an important piece for the regulatory authorities to
look at. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. And the second one may be Leon, who is online, I believe. Leon, can you actually
comment on that one?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President, International and China President `
Yeah. I think, Tim, actually, across the whole geographic AstraZeneca, emerging market has been
growing rapidly and almost no exception. And, of course, there is some currency depreciation in
certain countries, but overall, still very, very strong growth. And we're also in line with a global newproduct launch. I think Tagrisso, Farxiga, these oncology brands, and also rare disease as a new
growth driver, and is also doing very well across the emerging markets.
And all in all, on top of that, the LOE post-patent expired products, legacy products, they are still
quite -- we spend very little resource, and also growing nicely to support as a cash cow in our new
launches. And also, across the region, we are speeding up approval in many emerging markets.
So, we'll launch new products much earlier than before.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Leon. So, net-net, Tim, you have really two factors. One is, we have a very strong
commercial footprint in those countries now. We are actually the number one pharma company in
the international region. And so we are leveraging this strong commercial footprint across all sub-
regions.
The second factor is, we actually, a couple of years ago, invested more resources into a specific
international region regulatory team, and that team has been fast-tracking filing and approvals of
new products in those countries who historically were falling behind the priority geographies. And
now we still launch after the U.S. and Europe or Japan in those countries, but not that much later,
and we are still working on accelerating this. So, those two factors are really the most important
growth drivers.
Next question, I think, is `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken at Handelsbanken. Mattias, over to you.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken `
Thank you so much, `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken, Handelsbanken. Two questions, please. So firstly on
Dato-DXd, you initiated a couple of additional Phase 3 programs during the quarter with your
partner. So what makes you so confident to continue to invest into these programs? Or ask
perhaps differently, with investor communities' still skeptical to-date to DXd, what in particular is it
you see that investors may miss?
And then secondly, as one of few companies with both bi-specific antibody as well as cell therapy
capabilities in-house, can you talk about how you think about engaging these tools into
autoimmune disease, whether it's emerging or early data from both sets of technologies that
looks promising? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
hanks, Mattias. The first question, I think, would go to Susan. And the second, Sharon, you'll take
that one? Okay.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. So thanks for asking the question about Dato-DXd. So yes, we have announced that we're
starting Tropion-Lung10, which is a combination with rilvegostomig, our PD1/TIGIT bi-specific and
dato, compared to pembro in locally advanced first-line non-small cell lung cancer. And again, that
is a program where we're going to be looking at this activity in a biomarker selected group as
well. But it also includes the ability to compare rilvegostomig directly with pembro in that setting.
So I think what underpins confidence there is both the combinability with IO that we have seen in
different settings, the potential for the -- some added efficacy for the addition of the TIGIT
mechanism of action as part of the bi-specific within the PDL1 greater than 50% patient
population as well. And we think that this can be a winning combination in that setting.The other important study that I draw your attention to is the Tropion-Lung14 study. This is a
combination of Dato-DXd and Tagrisso in the first-line non-squamous EGFR mutant non-small cell
lung cancer. And again, this builds on both safety and efficacy data that we've seen from the
ORCHARD platform study that we have in a post-third-generation EGFR inhibitor patient
population in the EGFR mutant, and also the safety and combinability for that combination. So
that's what gives us confidence.
As you may have seen in the Tropion-Lung05 data that was published, it's actually really good
activity for Dato-DXd within the EGFR mutant population. And given the FLAURA2 data, which
you've also seen, I think that that also builds confidence in the ability to combine Tagrisso with
chemotherapy and directed agents. And so I think this has the opportunity to further build on the
data that we had from FLAURA2 and the data from ORCHARD, and really have a winning
combination in the first-line setting for EGFR mutant non-small cell lung cancer.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. Sharon?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals, R&D `
Sure. Thank you very much for the question about cell therapy and bispecifics in autoimmune
disease, because I think it's a really interesting topic that has become a key focus for us. As we
think about how we manage diseases of immune dysregulation, we are moving from managing
symptoms to modifying disease by addressing the causality of disease. And the mechanisms that
you mentioned, cell therapy and bispecific molecules are two excellent modalities that allow us to
really address the causality of disease.
So to that end, we have invested in internal capabilities, but also accelerated our ambition with
recent acquisitions. As you saw, we very recently closed an acquisition of Gracell, which brought
to us some, I think, leading capabilities that allow us to really accelerate our ambitions in cell
therapy for patients with autoimmune disease. And specifically, Gracell has a Bi CAR-T, which they
have used to complete an investigator-initiated trial in China for patients with systemic lupus
erythematosus, or SLE.
And we look forward to sharing those data at an upcoming medical conference. But I think it's
safe to say that the data that we have seen across the patients treated is at least as compelling
as anything that we have seen in the published literature, and because it gives us lots of
excitement and optimism about how we may be able to address SLE for patients moving
forward. At the same time, we're also investing in our internal platforms for creating T-cell
engagers, which we think also could be a powerful modality in the autoimmune space.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley, Mark, over to you.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thank you very much, Pascal. Two questions. The first one, the U.S. oral oncology products,
the product set there were very strong in the quarter. Could you help us to understand the
impact of treatment initiation dynamics and potential changes in affordability?
And then secondly, on the Fusion Pharmaceuticals' platform, for FP1-2265, could you help us
understand your plans for moving into, sort of, the pre-taxane setting? Would you do a head-to-head trial there versus Pluvicto potentially combine with part one? Obviously, understanding that
the post-Pluvicto opportunity itself has blockbuster potential anyway. Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Mark, thanks. I'll take the first question, probably Susan on the second. I mean, I think the first
important piece is that within the quarter on our oral oncolytics, particularly with Calquence and
Tagrisso, we saw a strong market share performance. Calquence remaining the leading BTKI in
front-line CLL and strong continued demand growth for Tagrisso and adjuvant in front-line, and
encouraging early FLAURA2 launch.
With that said, also, we do see early encouraging trends of lower abandonment and improved
access due to affordability, though it really is too early to quantify. And of course, recall, Mark, that
in 2024, there's no added liability associated with Part D, whereas it comes in in '25. But we'll
continue to keep updated on how those dynamics on affordability evolve over the course of the
year.
And Mark, on your second question, the deal hasn't closed. And so we are not able to comment
at this point in time. Sorry about this. And hopefully we can give you an answer pretty soon.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
`Richard Parkes, Exane BNP Paribas at Exane. Richard, over to you.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Firstly, sometimes when speaking to investors, I get the
perception that there's a feeling that AstraZeneca's maybe spreading its sales too thinly with
expansion into vaccines, cell therapy, radioligand. Just wondering how you respond to that,
whether you see any risk of the organization losing focus? And how you're thinking about some
of those investments for new platforms? It feels to me like there's more, you're just thinking
about that the day after tomorrow. So that would be very helpful.
And then on Airsupra, could you just talk a little bit more about the opportunity you're seeing?
Obviously, we've seen some very large drugs in that category in the past, and just think about
how your thinking has evolved on the opportunity since the launch. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. Let me try the first question, and maybe be Ruud, you could cover the second
one.
So the first question, I think, first point is, I'm sure you've realized, we have a very, very strong
team and people are very focused on oncology, biopharma, rare disease and managing their
portfolios. Second point is, we are now a 50 -- kind of a $50 billion company, so you really need a
portfolio to continue growing. And I think this is one of our strengths, we're not depending on two
or three products, we have a portfolio of products that are driving our growth. And we can
actually highlight that better to you at the Investor Day very soon.Third point I would make is that actually this portfolio actually gives us the opportunity to combine.
And again, that's what we want to highlight during the Investor Day. We're in a unique position to
combine in oncology across ADCs, bispecific, potentially -- bispecific IO potentially in the long run,
take an approach to solid tumors to address the tumor with a combination of ADCs and bispecific
and follow this with TCEs or cell therapy. In the cardiovascular space, Sharon has covered it, we
can combine across the GLP-1 and PCSK9 or the other agents, the PARP, of course. So, I think
these are the things that actually help us.
On the vaccine front, I think there's sometimes a misperception of what we're trying to do. We're
not trying to build a vaccine business like vaccine companies have. We are actually targeting
vaccines that will be synergistic, strategic to our vaccine and antibodies, by the way, that are
synergistic to oncology or respiratory disease, products that will protect patients from
exacerbations of COPD or asthma, products that would protect patients from COVID or flu
infections if they are, say, cancer patients, blood cancers in particular. So, this is really what we're
trying to do. Always try to be implementing sort of a strategic synergy across our portfolio and
leverage our expertise and our strengths in various places.
So, I don't think we are too thin spread. And the challenge and the opportunity in our industry is
always to be able to think about today but also the long term. It would be very easy, quite frankly,
or easier to focus on the next four or five years. But we also have to think about what is going to
shape the medicine in 5 to 10 years so that this company remains a growth organization, not only
in the next few years but in the long run. And so that's always the challenge is really to manage
our near term, long term. But also, it's an opportunity. If we do that well and if we play our hand
very well, we can be very differentiated as a company.
So, Ruud, over to you.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Bio Pharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, of course. And thank you so much for the question, Richard. First of all, Airsupra is quite a
unique product in the United States because it's the first rescue therapy for asthma patients
above 18 years of age. It's a very substantial market, the short acting beta agonist market. Just to
give you a little bit of context, roughly 35 million inhalers are prescribed every year for the 18-plus
population in the United States. So the volumes are very, very substantial.
And we truly believe that we have a product in place which can change the treatment paradigm
of -- as-needed rescue medication in the U.S. Of course, it's still early days, but the fact that we
already see a very substantial number of scripps every week, plus that more and more physicians
are prescribing it, I truly believe that over the next few years that this product will become a
blockbuster molecule. And equally, we're also looking for other opportunities in other
geographies in the world, especially in the Middle East. We see good opportunities to launch the
product there as well in the next few months. So all in all, very bullish regarding the forecast and
the potential of this product moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. The next question is from Christopher Uhde SEB. Christopher, over to you.
Q - `Christopher Winston Uhde, SEB `
Hi, can you hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Yes.
Q - `Christopher Winston Uhde, SEB `
Good. So, yes, I guess the first question is, a lot of the key sort of Part D products, and I guess
the U.S. in general, had really strong performance. Can you quantify how big a headwind the
typical U.S. coverage resets amounted to? And what factors beyond strong demand help explain
why Q1 was so strong? And roughly, how much did they collectively contribute then to top-line
growth? Noting that, for example, Part D was one of those factors with the authorized generic.
And then my second question, which pipeline events for the rest of 2024 do you get most
excited about? And which do you think the street might be underappreciating? And what are we
missing, if so?
And if I could sneak in the last one, you said M&A will slow down, earlier today I've read, as you've
got most of what you need. I note you don't have a KRAS, though. Perhaps you could tell us what
your thoughts are around KRAS and why that isn't in your portfolio. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Christopher. So maybe, Ruud, you could take the first one and I'll try to address the
others.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Bio Pharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, an excellent question. We have seen very strong growth in the United States for both Farxiga
and Symbicort. It's driven by two different factors. First of all, we have launched an authorized
generic of Farxiga in the United States for the option for patients to have a lower cost option as
well. And so far we are very pleased with that introduction of this new, not new medicine but this
new offer to patients.
And of course, we will not know till, let's say, a few quarters more how the product will perform.
But so far the feedback has been extremely strong. Equally I think it's important that looking at
Farxiga in totality, that the growth across the world is extremely strong on the basis of the CKD
and heart failure indications. And there's no reason to believe that that will slow down any time
soon, so that's good news.
Symbicort, we have lowered our list price, the so-called WAC price, in the United States, like
other competitors have done as well. So we need to see how that will evolve in the next few
quarters. So it's a little bit of a new dynamic in Part D, let's say, in quarter one for our products. But
all in all, very nice first few months, and we will monitor it very closely, of course, moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. Let me try the other two questions quickly in the interest of time. The pipeline and
what is more exciting, until 2030, Christopher, I would again invite you to join us in Cambridge.
We are offering free tickets, a visit to beautiful Cambridge. And I'm sure we'll find a way to give
you a nice lunch, too.
On the M&A, I said it will slow down. It doesn't mean it will be zero. What I meant to say earlier in
terms of slowing down is, from a technology, from a platform viewpoint, I think we have acquired
and built most of what we need for now, and we need to execute on what we've got. But it
doesn't mean, of course, BD will come down to zero.In terms of the specific asked question, I won't answer this one. But we have our own internal
program, and we can discuss some of those things again in Cambridge.
So I'll move to `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel at Stifel. Over to you, Eric.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel `
Thank you, Pascal. First question, to come back on Farxiga and Symbicort in the U.S., maybe more
specifically. On Farxiga, is there any way we can get any idea about the one-off that could be into
the Q1 numbers with inventory build-up for the authorized generic? And on Symbicort, in the
context of the drug being genericized in the U.S., we're expecting sales to go down. It was up
28% in Q1. What could be the dynamic for U.S. Symbicort for the full year '24?
And then a more general question. We see more and more companies simplifying, streamlining
the organization by combining the different divisions in one single, like vaccine with pharma, or
onco with the rest of pharma. And you're still operating with different entities like onco,
biopharma, Alexion, VNI. Could you maybe summarize, maybe you're thinking about doing things
differently, but the benefit of doing the way you do and benefits versus risk and complexity?
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so let me start with the risk question, and Ruud, you can cover Farxiga and Symbicort in the
U.S. It's not still, it's actually we moved to that structure not that long ago, a few years of course,
but in our industry two, three years is not a long, or four years is not a long time.
I fully believe in the importance of being focused. On the one hand, people say you have too
much. On the other hand, we say, well, put everything together. So I think the reason why we can
succeed with our portfolio and leverage the portfolio is because indeed we are focused, we're
focused on oncology, biopharm, and rare disease. And anybody who's operated in oncology I
think would hopefully agree with me that oncology is very specific, rare disease is very specific.
And just the same as cardiovascular, you need to build capabilities.
And you can only do this if you do two things. First of all, recruit the right talent to understand the
environment they are in. And secondly, create a culture in a community where people feel they
work together to the same goal. In the case of cancer the goal is eliminate cancer as a cause of
death. And every community in the company has this total focus, that shared purpose, and that's
what drives people. People come to work to make a difference and make a difference in the field
they are in and the field they love, typically. So I think this is really the reason why we can actually
succeed and we'll intend to keep that structure as it is.
Ruud, over to you.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Bio Pharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, thank you once again, Eric, for the two questions. First of all, once again, let me remind you
about, the U.S. is a very important market for Farxiga, there's no doubt. But it only represents less
than 25% of our global sales. And we are very pleased to see that the brand is growing
extremely fast, not only in the United States, but across all the other geographies.
Specifically to your question, can you provide a split between the authorized generic and the
brand, the short answer is we're not going to do that. But equally, of course, you can look at the
script volume. If you analyze the script volume of Farxiga, it's the Farxiga brand as well as theto see that, we simply don't know. Equally for Symbicort, Symbicort, it's quite amazing that after
20 -- more than 20 years of initial launch that Symbicort is still analyzing more than $2 billion a
year. Very fast growth, again, in the emerging markets, but also equally this year so far in the
United States.
And that's heavily driven by the fact that we have an authorized generic available, as well as we
have also lowered our WAC, the so-called list price in the United States, so it becomes more
affordable for many patients. And once again, whether that will continue during the course of the
year needs to be seen. But so far it's very pleasing to see that both brands are off of a very
strong start in the United States, as well as outside of the United States.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. Maybe I would add that everybody talks about one-offs, and to be honest, I'm not
sure why there's such a focus on one-offs. If you look at Farxiga in the U.S., Q4 sales were $450
million, Q1 sales are $470 million. And if you look at the trend over the last few quarters, we've
had a very strong trend. And if you marry that or combine this with the prescription trend that
Ruud was talking about, there's suddenly a little bit of a stock-up, but it is not really what drives
the trend for Farxiga. It's a very strong trend, not only in the U.S. but across the world. So every
country is behaving the same way. We have very strong uptake in kidney disease, heart disease,
diabetes, et cetera.
The next one is `Steve Scala, TD Cowen at Cowen. Over to you, Steve.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen `
Thank you so much. I have two questions. First, DB06 hit its primary completion in March. Is the
data in-house? And is that underpinning your confidence? And second, why is there what seems
to be a long delay in presenting the oral GLP-1 and oral PCSK9 data? I could think of four possible
reasons. One, there's a lack of appropriate venues. Two, AstraZeneca is strategizing on next
steps on how to approach the market and wants to figure this out first. Three, there's some issue
with the molecules or data that you're working through, perhaps it is underwhelming. Or four,
we're just being too optimistic on how long this all takes. So any thoughts would be appreciated.
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. So let me just address the last one quickly, and then we could talk about DB06.
And you forgot one option, which is our policy, and our policy is to present data at medical
congresses, and that's what we have decided to do, we'd stick to this. But maybe your second
option is also part of it. For sure, we are in the meantime strategizing what we're going to do with
our portfolio and how we'd develop this product.
But really the driving force is simply we debated it internally, because you raise a good point, but
we concluded we didn't want to come up with an exception here. And so you'll have to wait for
the next potential option as a medical congress. We are, but as we have said, and I think I can
confirm, we're starting Phase 2 this year. So we are very much on track and we will not be
preparing Phase 2 if we were not confident with the oral GLP-1.
DB06, Susan, do you want to cover that?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `Yes, sure. So, DESTINY-Breast06 is obviously a setting earlier than DESTINY-Breast04. It includes
the IHC 1 plus and 2 plus as well as a group of the ultra-low group. And the confidence in
DESTINY-Breast06 is really built from the DESTINY-Breast04 data set, which we obviously
presented some time ago. So we are looking forward to the data. We said it's the first half of this
year, so hopefully you don't have to wait too long for getting those data and we're eager to
share them with you. Again, just as a reminder, the primary endpoint is PFS in the HER2 low group,
so that the IHC 1 plus and 2 plus, and then there'll be descriptive analysis of the HER2 ultra-low
patient population as well.
And as a reminder further, even though these patients are below the 1 plus category, they still
have a higher number of HER2 receptors on the cell surface than normal epithelium. So just to put
numbers on that, normal epithelium for HER2 is about 20,000 receptors per cell. At the 1 plus to
2 plus range, it's between 100,000 and 200,000. So in that ultra-low group you've got
somewhere between 20,000 and 100,000 receptors per cell. So you can see that there's
probably a significant proportion of that group that will have a higher expression level of HER2 on
the cell surface than normal epithelium would. And that's one of the reasons why we think there's
a potential to go beyond the 1 plus group into that ultra-low group and see benefit over the
current standard-of-care chemotherapies.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Next question is from `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic of Redburn. Over to you, Simon.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic `
Thank you, Pascal, for taking my questions. Two if I may, please. Firstly, going back to Farxiga, I just
wondered if you could talk us through the rationale for the timing of the authorized genomic now.
I may be missing something, but the compromised pattern goes in October '25. So some
thoughts there would be helpful. Alongside also the FDA issuing a request for pediatric studies in
March 2019, that hasn't yet been reflected in the Orange Book. So I just wondered what the
status of that was.
And then secondly, on TROPION-Lung10, you've moved forward with one of the combinations
which is in the TROPION-Lung04 study, obviously on high confidence. I just wondered where your
confidence rests with the combination with volrustomig and rilvegostomig.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks you, Simon. So, Ruud, in the past you were complaining not enough questions about
pharma, you're not going to complain too many questions.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Bio Pharmaceuticals Business Unit `
No, no. Could be less, but no, it's a great question, Simon. So why now? It's relatively
straightforward. First of all, we have a huge opportunity still in CKD in heart failure. And it is clear
from all the analytics we have done that a lower cost option for some of those patients are very
important in order to capture even more volume. The second one is also true that to some
extent it also mitigates the impact of a potential MCAP, so the inflation penalty in the United
States as well. So those two factors were important regarding the timing.
Regarding the pediatric indication, it's not yet in the Orange Book, so that's a very good
observation. But equally, we feel comfortable that the FDA will grant us the pediatric indication.And hence, our base assumption is still that the patent will stay in place till April 2026, which we
have signaled multiple times.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Susan, do you want to cover the second question?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. So the TROPION-Lung10 study, as I mentioned before, is a combination with rilvegostomig
and dato. And it's in a patient population that's greater than 50%. As we said before, what we
see in terms of the evolution of the IO checkpoint inhibitor landscape is a segmentation. And our
two bispecifics, we see the rilvegostomig PD-1/TIGIT is being focused on the IO sensitive or
highly expressing PD-L1 part of the population. And that's in line with what you see in terms of the
patient population in TROPION-Lung10.
And volrustomig, we're focusing that on the tumor types where CTLA-4 sensitivity has been
demonstrated and can add extra efficacy. Obviously, with volrustomig, it is designed to be a
better tolerated than the combination of CTLA-4 and PD-1 separately because it only binds
CTLA-4 in the presence of PD-1. And we have shown an improved safety profile, but it still does
have more side effects than you get with a PD-1 agent on its own or with rilvegostomig. So we will
select that drug where it will make the biggest difference. And you'll see that as you see the
evolution of the evolved studies with volrustomig.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Next question is from `Andrew Berens, SVB at Leerink. Over to you, Andrew.
Q - `Andrew Berens, SVB `
Hi, thanks. And congrats on the strong quarter. Kind of a big picture question on the AKT class
given the results of Truqap. Just wondering how you see it integrating in the evolving paradigms.
It's obviously incredibly dynamic. And specifically would like to know how you guys see the AKT
class integrating with CDK-2 agents, CDK-4 selective drugs, the oral SERD, degraders, and also
the ADCs that are starting to spread their wings into a number of these areas.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Andrew, thank you. Thank you for asking one question. Actually, Susan, over to you.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, so thanks for the question. So AKT is obviously part of the PI3 kinase AKT pathway, which is
the most commonly mutated or aberrant pathway in cancer. So we think this is a very important
mechanism. And we are looking at combinations of capivasertib with our camizestrant, our oral
SERD, a drug that's already in multiple Phase 3 trials as well. So I think there's potential for it to be
further expanded beyond the current set of trials that we've already got in development. And I
do think there are data that it can be a potential combination agent with a number of the other
things that you raised.
We do have a CDK2 inhibitor, a highly selective CDK2 inhibitor, which we profiled at the AACR
meeting that was in San Diego earlier this month. We think that's a very exciting molecule that will
address the resistance mechanisms to the CDK4-6 inhibitors. And so I do think that this class of
agents can be combined with the emerging, both new endocrine backbone agents and thenewer versions of things that address the CDK4 mechanism and the resistance to CDK4, which
typically is represented by sensitivity to CDK2 inhibition.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Just maybe to also build onto Susan's answer. And I think what's important and great about this is,
we're talking about leadership in breast cancer. And as part of that leadership in breast cancer,
we're really looking to build and improve upon the two existing pillars in the treatment of
metastatic disease, and then adding a third. And the existing treatments and existing pillars are
ET plus or minus CDK4-6, and then obviously chemotherapy.
I think what's important about the AKT class is it gives an opportunity for patients to continue to
stay on ET-based therapies, which has a lot of benefits associated with it. We also know, though,
that at some point ET therapies are no longer effective, and that it's a time to start to switch
towards chemotherapy. And within that, that's where the ADCs now create a third new pillar that
sits in between classical chemotherapy and ET-based approaches. We hope that DB06 will
provide even a further therapy option that sits within this. But you start to see the opportunity to
begin to offer to physicians more options for how they can think about treating their patients as
the disease progresses. And we've got best-in-class therapies to go into each of those pillars,
and then gives us an opportunity to look at combinations down the road.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Actually, this discussion gives me a chance to go back to, I think, the question
Richard was asking earlier about the pipeline. I mentioned combinations, but also this pipeline
enables us to actually shape the treatment algorithm, as Dave was suggesting a minute ago, in
breast cancer or lung cancer. And it also enables us to better partner with lung cancer oncologists
or breast cancer oncologists, and really truly be part of the way breast or lung cancer or other
cancers are treated. And it's true for cardiologists, not only managing cardiovascular risk, but also
if you look at amyloidosis, we have 2220 which is an amyloid depleter. We also have Eplontersen.
So, again, all of those things will give us a great chance to partner with key physicians, but also
leverage our portfolio to shape treatment algorithms and look at combinations.
`Emily Field, Barclays of Barclays. Emily, over to you.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just two on respiratory. A lot of excitement about the
tezepelumab COPD data to be presented at ATS. Given what we've seen so far, is it your
expectation that this would be taken in late-stage development in a broader eosinophil
population, i.e., over 150s and over 300s? And then on the back of that, similar to the obesity
question that was asked earlier, you have so many assets in late-stage development in COPD,
maybe asking from our side, what should we be focusing on in terms of just all of the late-stage
COPD programs that you have? Thank you.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals, R&D `
Sure. Thanks so much for the question. So I'll start with your first one, which was about
tezepelumab in our Phase 2 core study, and then I will speak more broadly about this COPD
portfolio. So you touched on teze and our recent Phase 2 trial completion, and we look forward to
presenting those data at ATS in the very near future. As I'm sure you know, teze is a monoclonal
antibody directed against TSLP. It is the only biologic approved for severe asthma with no
phenotype, and we see tremendous potential for this molecule in COPD.The COURSE Phase 2 study was specifically designed to look at a broader population of patients.
So it included patients irrespective of inflammatory drivers, eosinophil levels, emphysema, chronic
bronchitis, and smoking status, while other trials were more limited. And this included a pre-
specified subgroup analysis in populations with different eosinophilic levels, so including below
150, above 150, and above 300. We will present the data that we fully analyzed at the upcoming
ATS meeting.
But I will only venture to say that we are excited about the possibility of teze in a broader
population. It is worth noting that other molecules in this class are playing in the high eosinophilic
levels at more than 300 eosinophils per microliter. And that's only about 35% of the population
that's eligible for biologics. But those above 150 eosinophils per microliter are about 65% of the
biologics eligible population in COPD. So we think that's a really important differentiator for this
molecule.
Now you also mentioned, I think you also asked us about our plans to go forward together with
our collaborators at Amgen. We are actively planning the next stage of development. You asked
about our overall portfolio in COPD. And I think it's worth mentioning here that COPD is a very
heterogeneous disease with multiple drivers. And to that end, we think that there are multiple
mechanisms that may have substantial clinical benefit. So we are testing multiple mechanisms and
we are testing them in populations that allow us to differentiate them from each other.
Tozorakimab, as we have previously described, is a differentiated IL-33 monoclonal antibody
because it can bind and block both ST2 and RAGE-EGFR signaling. We think that's really important
in this disease because it not only blocks the inflammatory pathways, but it can also block mucus
production and epithelial remodeling through RAGE-EGFR. So we view that as a differentiated
mechanism which we think may also have very broad utility in the COPD population. So early days,
we are reading into our Phase 2 data and thinking about our Phase 3 plans going forward. But I
think that we have the potential to be really paradigm shifting for people living with COPD.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. `Luisa Hector, Berenberg at Berenberg, Luisa.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Hi, thanks, Pascal. Perhaps I could touch on capital allocation. So your high burden of the deal-
related payments will start to ease at the end of this year. So that improves your cash flow
outlook. So will this lead to a change in the nature of deals which you can do? And perhaps you
could remind us of your dividend policy given the slightly unusual announcement of the 2024
dividend recently. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Louisa. Aradhana, your favorite question.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Luisa. So our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. As you've seen, we've
been very active on the BD front, but we also now sort of need to create value actually from the
acquisitions and the partnership transactions we've done. So we need to focus on execution of
those transactions. We did announce a 7% dividend increase in line with our progressive dividend
policy, but also recall that we did not increase dividends in 2022. And so the Board takes adecision on when and how they can increase dividends based on our overall capital allocation
priorities. But the capital allocation remains unchanged.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana. So, thank you very much for all your great questions. I think it is time for us
to respect your time and close this call. Again, thank you so much for all your great questions and
your interest in AstraZeneca, and have a good rest of the day.