Q3 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the U.S. Good afternoon to those in the U.K. and Central
Europe. And good evening to those listening in Asia. Welcome ladies and gentlemen to
AstraZeneca's Nine Months and Q3 Results 2024 Webinar for Investors and Analysts.
Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the safe harbor statement. The company
intends to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with respect to
the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca.
Although we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very
nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and may be influenced by
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking made on this call reflect the knowledge
and information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to
update forward-looking statements.Please also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the slide deck that
accompanies this presentation. There will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's
presentation. Please use the Raise a Hand feature to indicate you wish to ask a question at any
time and remember to unmute your line when invited to speak. You can also submit a written
question using the Q&A tab on your screen.
And with that, I will now hand you over to the company.
`Andrew Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
A warm welcome to AstraZeneca's year-to-date and third quarter 2024 presentation, conference
call and webcast for investors and analysts. I'm Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations. And
before I hand over to Pascal and other members of the executive team, I would like to cover
some important housekeeping points.
Firstly, all of the materials presented today are available on our AstraZeneca Investor Relations
website.
Next slide, please. This slide contains our safe harbor statement, which I'd encourage you to take
time to read. We'll be making comments on our performance using constant exchange rates or
CER, core financial numbers and other non-GAAP measures. And non-GAAP to GAAP
reconciliation is contained within the results announcement. All numbers quoted are in millions of
U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated.
Next slide, please. This slide shows our agenda for today's call. Following our prepared remarks,
we'll open the line for questions. As usual, we will try to address as many of the questions you
have during the allocated time, although please limit the number of questions you ask to allow
others a fair chance to participate in the Q&A.
And with that, Pascal, I'll hand over to you. Next slide, please.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy, and welcome, everyone.
In the third quarter, total revenue grew by 21%, driven by strong underlying global demand for our
medicines. Core EPS increased 27% to $2.08, reflecting our continued focus on profitability.
If you want to move to the next slide, please. In the year-to-date, total revenue grew 19% and
core EPS grew 11%. As a reminder, total revenue and core EPS in the first nine months of 2023
benefited from one-time collaboration revenue and other co-operating income, totaling $1.1
billion, which makes the 2024 year-to-date growth rate even more impressive.
Importantly, this performance is across all of our focus therapy areas, with each delivering double-
digit growth in both the third quarter and in the year-to-date. Given the strength of our underlying
business, I'm pleased to announce we have upgraded our full year guidance, and we now expect
both total revenue and core EPS to increase by high-teens percentages. Aradhana will provide
you with additional detail.
Please move to the next slide. Taking a closer look at our total revenue performance in the first
nine months of the year, we continue to benefit from our global -- our broad global presence.
Our company is growing across all regions, and we continue to strengthen our capabilities in
many markets around the world, most notably in the emerging markets outside of China, wherefor another quarter our performance is standing out from our peers with 30% growth in the year-
to-date.
And you can see now the very good distribution of our revenue across the world, 43% in the U.S.,
21% in Europe, 13% in China. It's very pleasing to see the emerging markets outside of China are
now bigger than China, with 14% of our revenue and 9% for the established rest of the world.
So very strong distribution, but we want to see even more growth in the U.S. over the next few
years as part of our 2030 ambition, and this is why we decided today here in New York to
announce this $3.5 billion investment in the U.S. in manufacturing and R&D. U.S. is, of course, a
very important market that supports innovation, and we will continue to invest to grow fast in this
part of the world. But very, very good growth across the world in the emerging markets in China,
but also very much outside of China.
With this chart, I'd like to take a moment to address recent developments in China, which, of
course, have been the subject of a lot of speculation. We are actually not privy to the details of
any of these investigations. If requested, we'll cooperate fully as we have in the past. As you can
imagine, I personally take these matters very seriously, and the whole company also takes it, of
course, very, very seriously. It's important to realize we don't have many details. We haven't been
approached as a company. We will, of course, collaborate with the authorities if requested to do
this, but we have very limited information, and today we would like to focus on Q3 to the extent
possible, unless there are questions relating to China that haven't been answered before by
Aradhana last week when she organized the call.
Importantly, we remain committed to our presence in China, and we will continue to invest in the
country to support the discovery and the delivery of our life-changing medicines. And finally,
we're doing what we can to support our employees in China. They're all hard at work. They're all
very focused and continuing to develop our pipeline, but also our portfolio of marketed products.
I just want to take a moment to thank all these employees for their continued dedication to our
purpose. We have 17,000 employees in China, and all these employees are working very hard
and making us all happy with how they have developed our presence in China over the last few
years.
Please advance to the next slide. Already this year, we delivered multiple high-value Phase III
readouts. LAURA expands the reach of Tagrisso in early-stage lung cancer. Calquence advances
into mantle cell lymphoma with ECHO and with AMPLIFY now has the potential to be the only
medicine in front-line CLL approved for both fixed and extended durations of treatment.
DESTINY-Breast06 broke new ground in Enhertu, moving it one line earlier into chemo-naive
metastatic breast cancer, and it showed clear benefit in HER2-ultra-low disease. And Imfinzi is set
to begin a new wave of growth in small-cell lung cancer and bladder cancer following positive
readouts for ADRIATIC and NIAGARA.
Finally, as shared earlier today, KOMET has potential to extend Koselugo use beyond pediatric
NF1-PN patients to adults, and WAYPOINT has the potential to bring a first-in-class mechanism of
action to patients with severe nasal polyps. If approved, these opportunities represent over $5
billion in combined peak year revenues on a non-risk adjusted basis.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will now hand over to Aradhana, who will take
you through our financials.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `Thank you, Pascal, and hello, everyone. Next slide, please. I will start by highlighting our broad-
based growth across our focus areas. As you can see on this slide, we delivered strong total
revenue growth across the portfolio with blockbusters in all key therapeutic areas delivering
strong growth in the year-to-date period.
Next slide, please. This is our reported P&L. Total revenue increased by 19% in the first nine
months. Product sales also increased by 19% with strong growth across major regions. Alliance
revenue increased by 50% to $1.5 billion, driven by increased sales for Enhertu and Tezspire in
regions where our partners book product sales. In order to remain focused on our growth
products, we undertake a regular portfolio prioritization, and in the third quarter, this resulted in
an impairment and related charges for Andexxa.
Next slide, please. This is our core P&L. As anticipated, our core product sales gross margin
declined slightly in the third quarter versus the first half. We anticipate a lower product sales gross
margin in the fourth quarter, partly due to the seasonality of FluMist and increased before it is
supplied to Sanofi following a very successful launch. We have previously said that for the full year,
we expect a slightly lower product sales gross margin percentage compared to 2023.
Operating expenses increased by 15% year-to-date, well below the pace of total revenue
growth. R&D expenses increased by 18% in part due to the integrations of recent acquisitions
including Gracell, Fusion and Amolyt, for which we incurred additional costs this year. We have also
accelerated a number of R&D projects and saw rapid patient enrollment across many of our
clinical trials. This is expected to continue in the fourth quarter. For the full year, we still anticipate
R&D costs to be towards the upper-end of the previously indicated low 20s percentage range of
total revenue. This would imply a step-up in R&D costs in the fourth quarter.
SG&A costs increased by 13%, partly driven by investments behind our new launches and growth
brands including Airsupra, Breztri, and Truqap. However, as we have previously highlighted, while
we expect to see some growth in SG&A costs in the fourth quarter, we do not anticipate it would
be to the same extent as we saw in the fourth quarter of 2023.
Core EPS of $6.12 represents a growth rate of 11%. Recall that the comparative period last year
benefited from almost $1.1 billion in one-time collaboration revenue and other operating income,
impacting year-over-year growth rates.
Please turn to the next slide. Our net cash inflow from operating activities improved by $989
million in the first nine months, driven by improved business performance. We still expect CapEx
for 2024 to increase by about 50% versus 2023 and have incurred $1.2 billion year-to-date. This
includes investments in our new cell therapy manufacturing plant in Rockville, Maryland, and a new
manufacturing plant in Qingdao, China, for our inhaled respiratory portfolio.
Net debt increased by $3.8 billion, mainly reflecting the acquisitions completed earlier this year
and $4.6 billion in dividend payments. Our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio currently stands at 1.8x. As
previously indicated, finance expenses are expected to be higher in 2024 compared to 2023,
given the $6.5 billion of bond issuances earlier this year, which came at higher interest rates.
As Pascal mentioned, following strong performances from both product sales and alliance
revenue year-to-date and increased confidence in achieving certain sales-based milestones, we
are upgrading our fiscal year guidance today. We now anticipate total revenue and core EPS to
grow by high-teens percentage at CER, an increase from our prior expectations for mid-teens
growth, which was upgraded at half a year.Heading into 2025, we expect to continue to see strong underlying revenue growth, driven by
indication expansion opportunities and continued strong global demand for our medicines and
are entering a catalyst-rich period for our company. We remain focused on creating P&L leverage,
and taken together, we are confident in our 2025 outlook. As usual, we will issue guidance for
next year in February at our full year results.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Dave who will take you
through oncology performance.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thank you, Aradhana. Next slide, please. In the first nine months of the year, oncology total
revenues grew 22% to $16 billion, driven by strong demand in the U.S., Europe, and emerging
markets.
Turning to our key medicine performance in the third quarter. Tagrisso global revenues grew 17%
with sequential growth of 4%, reflecting strong demand for ADAURA and lengthening duration of
therapy in the metastatic setting. In the U.S., initial adoption for FLAURA2 has been encouraging in
the first nine months following launch.
Calquence total revenues increased 25% in the third quarter, driven by sustained BTK inhibitor
leadership in front-line CLL and continued international expansion. Imfinzi delivered 16% and
Imjudo 22% growth in the third quarter supported by adoption in GI cancers, TOPAZ has rapidly
achieved peak market share as the standard of care in Biliary tract cancer, and HIMALAYA
continues to make gains in advanced liver cancer.
As expected, we realized an impact from the two mandatory price reductions in Japan earlier this
year, which is reflected in established rest-of-world performance in the first nine months. We look
forward to a new wave of Imfinzi growth, driven by key indication expansion opportunities,
including AEGEAN, and once approved, ADRIATIC and NIAGARA, which will contribute
meaningfully to peak year revenues.
Lynparza remains the leading PARP inhibitor globally across all tumor types, delivering product
sales growth of 13%, driven primarily by demand growth in the U.S. and Europe. Enhertu is now
the established standard-of-care across both HER2-positive and HER2-low metastatic breast
cancer, delivering total revenue growth of 55% and sequential growth of 8% in the third quarter.
We saw some spontaneous use in the chemo-naive setting following presentation of the
DESTINY-Breast06 data at ASCO and publication in the New England Journal of Medicine in
September. NCCN guideline inclusion and potential approval will be important catalysts for
expanded adoption.
Finally, we continue to see encouraging early uptake in tumor agnostic, particularly in gynecologic
tumors. Truqap delivered $125 million in the third quarter, supported by strong adoption in the
biomarker-altered population and further use in the late-line setting.
Since half-year results, we received a number of key regulatory approvals, including AEGEAN and
LAURA in the U.S., which accelerate Imfinzi and Tagrisso into early-stage lung cancer. In Europe,
we received approval for Imfinzi and Lynparza in endometrial cancer. And in China, we received
additional Enhertu approvals in gastric and lung cancers. Taken together with the performance of
our existing medicines, these new indication expansion opportunities give us confidence in the
continued growth of our global oncology portfolio in 2025.With that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll hand over to Susan to cover key R&D
highlights from the quarter.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. In September, we showcased important data at the World Congress on Lung
Cancer and the European Society for Medical Oncology Congresses, with five presidential
plenaries and eight simultaneous publications, including three in the New England Journal of
Medicine.
At ESMO, we presented the results from the Phase 3 NIAGARA trial of Imfinzi in a presidential
session. This is the first perioperative IO regimen to show a significant improvement in overall
survival versus standard-of-care in muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Together with the ongoing
VOLGA Phase 3 trial of Imfinzi in combination with enfortumab vedotin, Imfinzi-based regimens
will look to address the full spectrum of muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
We continue to advance our next-generation IO bispecifics, as well as our novel in-house ADC
programs. And we shared key data updates of both of these, both World Congress on Lung
Cancer and ESMO. We've now initiated 10 Phase 3 trials with our IO bispecifics, volrustomig and
rilvegostomig. And we continue to progress our late-stage ADC portfolio.
Importantly, we shared a key data update for our novel QCS technology. A retrospective analysis
of the TROPION-Lung01 dataset showed our TROP2 QCS-NMR biomarker is predictive of
progression-free survival outcomes with Dato-DXd, and recent analysis shows it's also predictive
of OS outcomes. We look to prospectively validate this biomarker in multiple ongoing Phase 3
trials. We believe that the novel advancement in the field of computational pathology will have
applications across our ADC portfolio, enabling better patient identification and unlocking
opportunities in multiple tumor types.
We will share data from the Phase 3 AMPLIFY trial at the American Society of Hematology
meeting in December. In this trial, fixed-duration Calquence in chronic lymphocytic leukemia
delivered a clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival, a trend to overall
survival, and differentiated safety in an all-oral regimen.
HCPs prefer finite therapy for around 50% of patients, including those that are more fit or have
IGHV mutations. AMPLIFY has the opportunity to drive BTK inhibitor class expansion in front-line
CLL by offering both fixed and extended-duration options as monotherapy and in combination.
Also at ASH, we'll be sharing new data for our CD19/CD3 T-cell engager, AZD0486, in
relapsed/refractory diffused large B-cell lymphoma and in follicular lymphoma.
CD19 is expressed across a broader range of B-cells compared with CD20, and therefore this
asset has the opportunity to be differentiated from CD20 engagers. It was also designed to have
lower affinity to CD3, with the hope that this improves tolerability compared with other engager
platforms. We believe that AZD0486 has the potential to be a foundational therapy across
multiple hematologic indications.
Next slide, please. Tagrisso remains the backbone TKI for the treatment of EGFR-mutated lung
cancer, spanning early to late metastatic settings. Earlier this year, we received U.S. approval for
the LAURA study in Stage 3 unresectable lung cancer, expanding Tagrisso's presence in early-
stage disease.
Last month, we read out the registrational Phase 2 SAVANNAH trial of Tagrisso with Orpathys inresponse rate. Importantly, the addition of Orpathys allows for continued use of Tagrisso in the
roughly one-third of patients that have high MET expression. We've shared these data with
regulatory agencies and await the readout of the confirmatory Phase 3 SAFFRON trial in the
second half of next year.
SAVANNAH is one of several trials that looks to explore novel combinations which can extend
Tagrisso use across multiple lines of therapy. We're also exploring Tagrisso and Dato-DXd in first
and second-line settings with the TROPION-Lung14 and 15 trials. We see potential to replace
systemic chemotherapy whilst maintaining Tagrisso use for patients with EGFR-mutated lung
cancer.
Finally, I'd like to provide an update on the TROPION-Lung01 filing. Following discussions with the
FDA, we've submitted a biologics license application for approval in later line EGFR-mutated non-
small cell lung cancer. With the encouragement of the FDA, we've also applied for breakthrough
therapy designation for this indication. In parallel, we've decided to withdraw the application for
the broader non-squamous non-small cell indication.
The FDA has noted the favorable benefit-risk profile in EGFR-mutated lung cancer based
primarily on the data from the single arm TROPION-Lung05 trial with supportive data from the
TROPION-PanTumor01 and the randomized data from the TROPION-Lung01 EGFR-mutated
subset. The ongoing TROPION-Lung15 study will serve as a confirmatory trial.
Also, we plan to conduct an additional registrational trial in the second-line TROP2 QCS-NMR
biomarker positive population, complementing the ongoing AVANZAR and TROPION-Lung10
trials in first line non-small cell lung cancer. We remain committed to our ongoing Dato-DXd
program in lung cancer and look forward to next year's readout for AVANZAR, the first Phase 3
data for Dato-DXd in first line lung cancer.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
BioPharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. Next slide, please. Our BioPharmaceuticals medicines delivered total
revenue of $15.9 billion in the first nine months of 2024, representing growth of 20%. In the third
quarter, total revenue increased 25% with every biopharma therapy area growing in every major
region. CVRM total revenue increased 20% in the third quarter. Farxiga delivered 27% growth with
double-digit growth in all major regions, driven by continued market leadership in the expanding
SGLT2 class.
In the third quarter, our recently launched medicine for ATTR polyneuropathy, Wainua, grew 44%
sequentially to $23 million with prescribers coming from a broad range of specialties. Wainua
secured positive CHMP opinion in Europe during the quarter, as well as multiple approvals in
other markets.
Our R&I business is expected to be a substantial driver of our growth through 2030. R&I
delivered total revenue of $2 billion in the quarter, an increase of 29%. Growth was particularly
strong in the United States at 43% and Europe at 30%, reflecting increased demand for our
biologic and inhaled medicines.
The strong growth momentum we have seen for Tezspire and Breztri continued with both
medicines on track to achieve around $1 billion sales in global sales in 2024. The long-term
outlook for Breztri is very promising, with potential to expand into asthma, and we're alsoprogressing the development of our next-generation propellant with near-zero global warming
potential.
Our ongoing THARROS outcomes trial is the only in the class to examine both pulmonary and
cardiac endpoints and, if successful, could be transformative for this medicine.
Our other inhaled medicines, Symbicort and Airsupra, are also experiencing strong demand.
While it is unclear to what extent Symbicort's recent growth in the United States will continue in
2025, we expect to see continuous strong demand in the emerging markets. Airsupra revenues
grew 50% sequentially, and the launch is progressing very well, with more than 50,000
healthcare practitioners in the U.S. having prescribed Airsupra to date.
Lastly, we are very pleased to see V&I return to growth in the quarter, with a 49% increase in total
revenue. Demand for Beyfortus is strong, supported by real-world evidence of Beyfortus' value in
preventing infant hospitalizations, and also the recent clinical data from the HARMONY trial, which
demonstrates its sustained efficacy to 180 days.
We are highly encouraged to see such a strong performance from all areas of BioPharmaceuticals
in the year-to-date and we anticipate this growth momentum will continue into 2025.
I will now hand over to Sharon to discuss the latest developments from the BioPharmaceuticals
pipeline. Next slide, please.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Thank you, Ruud. Today, I'm excited to share more about our ambitions to build the next wave of
transformative medicines addressing cardiovascular, renal, and metabolic diseases. We have
established a robust foundation with Farxiga, our leading SGLT2 inhibitor, in heart failure, chronic
kidney disease, and Type 2 diabetes, and we are progressing a number of key NMEs.
We remain focused on delivering novel, targeted monotherapies, including baxdrostat, our
selective aldosterone synthase inhibitor, which we believe has the potential to be the first-in-class
medicine for uncontrolled hypertension, and we look forward to a Phase 3 readout next year.
Earlier this year, we presented results from our Phase 1 trial for AZD0780, our oral PCSK9
inhibitor, demonstrating an additional 52% reduction LDL-C on top of standard-of-care statins.
Furthermore, we are investigating multiple modalities in cardiac amyloidosis, including two
molecules for ATTR cardiomyopathy. Eplontersen, a TTR gene silencer, and ALXN2220, a TTR
protein depleter, which have the potential to address the broad spectrum of cardiac amyloidosis.
To pioneer in an evolving landscape, we have intentionally built our pipeline to investigate novel
combinations to simultaneously target complex conditions and address comorbidities. We
recently presented early data from three assets across our weight management pipeline at
Obesity Week earlier this month.
Promising Phase 1 data from AZD5004, our small molecule oral GLP1 receptor agonist,
demonstrated good target engagement, safety, and tolerability. As a once-daily option,
AZD5004 is being developed as both a monotherapy as well as in combination with other small
molecules in our portfolio, such as dapagliflozin and AZD0780, our oral PCSK9 inhibitor. We are
rapidly progressing AZD5004 in Phase 2b trials, in Type 2 diabetes, and in obesity or overweight.
Data from AZD6234, our once-weekly, long-acting amylin agonist peptide, also demonstrated
encouraging safety and tolerability, as well as a robust profile designed to promote fat-specific
weight loss while preserving lean muscle mass. We have progressed AZD6234 into Phase 2b toevaluate body weight reduction for those living with obesity or overweight. Additionally, we
believe the triple mechanism combination of AZD6234 with AZD9550, our GLP1 glucagon dual
agonist, has the potential to achieve optimal weight loss, lean mass sparing, and organ
protection.
We are working at pace to deliver the next wave of transformative medicines across
cardiovascular, renal, and metabolic diseases, across a range of modalities and pathways
designed to address the interconnectedness of disease.
Please move to the next slide. Last week, we announced positive results from the WAYPOINT
Phase 3 trial of Tezspire in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. There is a
significant burden and unmet need for patients living with nasal polyps, with over 7 million
patients treated for this disease, of which 3 million are uncontrolled. Tezspire demonstrated
statistically significant and clinically meaningful reductions in both co-primary endpoints, reducing
the size of nasal polyps and the level of nasal congestion. We look forward to sharing these data
with regulatory authorities and at an upcoming medical meeting.
Beyond nasal polyps, we have several other Phase 3 trials ongoing or announced across multiple
indications, including severe asthma, eosinophilic esophagitis, and COPD, and we look forward to
updating you on our progress.
And with that, please move to the next slide, and I will hand over to Marc to cover our Rare
Disease portfolio.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Thank you, Sharon. Can I get the next slide, please? Rare Disease grew 14% to $6.4 billion in the
first nine months of the year, driven by growth in neurology indications, increased patient demand
and continued global expansion.
Ultomiris achieved its first blockbuster quarter, with revenue growing at 35%, primarily driven by
neurology indication. The NMOSD launch is progressing very well, and by the end of the year, we
expect the majority of patients in major markets will have switched from Soliris to Ultomiris. In
Europe, we saw a minimal increase of Soliris biosimilar utilization across PNH and atypical HUS.
Beyond complement, Strensiqup and Koselugo grew 21% and 39%, respectively, driven by
continued patient demand and new launches. We are highly encouraged by the strong
performance from our rare disease medicine in the year-to-date, and we anticipate this growth
momentum to continue into 2025.
Please advance to the next slide. Today, we announce positive results from the Phase 3 KOMET
trial in adult patients with NF1-PN, the largest placebo-controlled Phase 3 trial ever conducted in
this disease. NF1-PN is a rare, progressive genetic condition impacting multiple body systems
characterized by benign tumors that develop along nerve sheaths throughout the body. NF1-PN
affects over 60,000 in both the U.S. and the EU, 80% of whom we estimate are adults.
In the KOMET trial, Koselugo showed a statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction in
patient tumor volumes, as well as an encouraging effect across pain severities, rapid response
from patients and low discontinuation rates. These data support the potential to expand
Koselugo into the adult population. We look forward to sharing the data with regulators globally
and will present at an oncoming conference.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand back to Pascal.`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Next slide, please. In addition to the high-value trial readouts that I mentioned at
the start of this call, we are entering a remarkable catalyst-rich period for our company. Within the
coming year, we will see the results of significant indication expansion opportunities for our
marketed medicines, including Truqap, Enhertu, Imfinzi, and Fasenra, as well as pivotal trial
readouts for several important potential best-in-class novel medicines shown here on this slide.
We're also making excellent progress advancing key disruptive technologies with potential to
drive growth well beyond 2030. And we look forward to multiple earlier-stage data readouts
over the course of 2025.
Next slide, please. As Aradhana mentioned earlier, our strong delivery in the first nine months of
this year, together with our upgraded full year 2024 guidance, sets a strong foundation for
continued growth next year. And while we will provide formal guidance with full year results in
February, we're confident that the headwinds we anticipate next year will be substantially offset
by global demand for our portfolio of medicines.
This strong commercial performance, together with continued pipeline delivery and our focus on
profitability, mean we are on track to achieve the strategic ambitions laid out at our Investor Day
this past May. We remain confident in our ability to generate $80 billion in total revenue by 2030.
And as a reminder, this is a risk-adjusted number. We are also managing our P&L to deliver the
mid-30s percentage operating margin by 2026, as we previously communicated. Of course,
pipeline regeneration is critical to delivering leading growth and long-term value creation. To that
point, we've launched six NMEs towards our goal of at least 20 by 2030.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and we will go to the Q&A. As Andy mentioned
at the start of the call, please limit the number of questions you ask to allow others a fair chance
to participate. For those online, please use the Raise Hand function on Zoom.
And with that, we'll move to the first question, which is from `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan at J.P. Morgan. Over
to you, James.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Q - `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan `
Hello. `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan, J.P. Morgan. Thanks for taking the two questions. The first question was U.S.
election implications and where you're investing. So, do you see any impact from the U.S.
presidential election on Astra's business in terms of higher tariffs or maybe lower corporate tax
or anything else? And I saw the $3.5 billion U.S. investment in manufacturing research. Is there any
connection there? Are you going to shift more of your investment into the U.S.? Is that even more
of a focus now? I assume, for instance, the U.K. election doesn't make much difference, and
that's going to be potentially an area of less investment.
And the second question was confidence in the 2025 outlook. So if I look at the 2025 consensus
of the new updated 2024 implied EPS level, is looking for low-double-digit EPS growth. So how
comfortable are you with that growth outlook? I can hear comments on top-line strength and
leverage over SG&A, but also we've had a pull forward on the Lynparza milestone. There's
questions on China, IRA, financial expense, and maybe the election depending on what you saidin the first question. So should we be a bit more cautious than that on 2025 or is that achievable
maybe?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks. Thanks, James. So the first question, the pharmaceuticals typically are not subject
to those import duties. Having said that, it's academic in our case because we don't import
pharmaceuticals into the U.S. from China. So that is really a question that doesn't apply to us
because we source our products -- for the U.S., we source them either from the U.S. directly or
from Europe typically. So there's really no issue of sourcing products from China. And so that's
the first point.
And as we explained in the past, we really tried over the last few years to build supply chains that
can, on the one hand, supply what you might call the Western world, U.S., Europe, and a few
others, and then we have a separate supply chain for China and some of the emerging markets.
So that's the answer to the first question.
The second question, actually, and your first question about the U.S. elections, I mean, the reason
we invest very substantially in the U.S. is that we all know the U.S. is a very important market both
in terms of providing our medicines to patients, but also in terms of innovation. And we really
want to be at the heart of this country in terms of manufacturing, but also R&D. I mean, we are
building this new site in Kendall Square in Boston because it's an important location for research
and development.
Now, we see the economy should actually continue to grow strongly in the U.S. next year and the
year after. And then a number of participants in the economy seem to believe that, too. And a
strong economy will support a strong healthcare, which, of course, assumedly will also support
the delivery of medicines. So all of that makes us really enthusiastic about the U.S. market. In our
plan, the U.S. should increase its participation to our total revenue. The other area that is growing
very nicely, of course, is the emerging markets out of China.
Now in terms of your other question with 2025, it's relatively simple actually. I mean, look at
where we are today. We are growing almost 20% in top-line, right? So we've got enormous
momentum moving into the Q4, but also next year. So we've got this momentum into next year,
running at sort of 20% growth rate. Now we know what the headwinds are. I mean, we know
about IRA. We know about VBP, Farxiga in China. We don't know exactly when, but we know it's
going to happen next year. And so those are headwinds. But on the other hand, we have
enormous momentum across the entire portfolio, but also across the entire world.
So I'm not saying next year we will grow by the same amount of this year, of course not. But even
if you decelerate this a little bit and then you assume some leverage, because we've been
working on P&L leverage for many years, it's relatively easy to get to a conclusion that confirms
what Aradhana was saying before, we're very confident with the outlook for next year. Not only
for next year, but the year after actually. So net-net is we are actually confident for the outlook
next year. Aradhana, do you want to add anything to that?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
No, no, I think you covered it very well. And also just to make sure, the investments we
announced in the U.S. today, we've been working on them for several years. And the incremental
investment that was announced is partly this year, partly the next two years. And it's really driven
by the growth and the momentum that we see, whether it's in clinical trials and clinical trial supplyor the cell therapy. And so it's really a continued process. And I know we made the
announcement today since we are in New York, but that's been part of the plan.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe just going back to the U.S. question is, if you think about -- I mean, if you look at our
position around the world, in most cases we are in the top three companies in most markets, not
in the U.S. And the reason is the U.S. market is the market that actually rewards innovation the
most. But to do this, to be rewarded for your innovation, you have to have new products. And
that's what we've done with oncology, but there's more to come outside of oncology in the next
few years. And so that's why we believe that the share of global revenue coming out of the U.S.
over the next few years should grow, because our participation in the U.S. and hopefully our
ranking in the U.S. will improve.
Shall we move to the next question. `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas?
Q - `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas `
Thanks for taking my questions. `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas Exane. So a couple of questions.
Firstly, just one for you, Pascal. Just wondered if you could comment on what you would suggest
investors assume in terms of materiality of impact to your China business at this stage from the
investigation. Obviously, we've all got very little visibility on China, so is it safer to assume there
will be some negative implications and how would you characterize the materiality of that at this
stage? I'm just wondering what you would assume if you had to present an updated 10-year plan
to the Board tomorrow for the China outlook.
Then secondly, on Dato-DXd, one for Susan, I just wondered if there was anything that was raised
in during the FDA review that investors should be aware of that maybe undermined your
confidence in Dato-DXd or the TROP2 QCS biomarker. Obviously, the decision to withdraw the
filing raises question over confidence in your hypothesis of whether the drug works well. I'm just
wondering if we should assume that or was the FDA's requirement for approvals simply a higher
bar than you originally assumed? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So the first question, Richard, thank you, for China, I think really the answer -- the true answer to
your question is it's too early to judge. I think it's reasonable to assume that there will be some
impact, but today we cannot judge that. I mean, it's much too early. We don't have enough data.
We need to wait a little longer and see the trend. And on top of it, then we would have to see if
there was an impact, is it a short-lasting or long-lasting impact? So, much too early to judge.
But I think maybe what I can say is that China today is about 12%, 13% of our total revenue. And as
I said, the U.S. will continue to grow. Europe is growing. China will grow, for sure. But next year, we
know we have Farxiga VBP. And so certainly next year, the growth in China in any case will be
slower than what we see this year, which this year is a very good growth, by the way.
So we have -- the assumption is the share of sales is not going to be the 20% we saw a few
years ago. We are at 12%, 13% today, and the rest of the world will grow much more. So I guess
what I'm saying is we will navigate this difficult period, and we think we can actually manage to
continue to grow across the world, even if there was some impact in China. We hope there won't
be a sign impact. And certainly the team in the country in China is working very hard to continue
moving our products.We know our research and development in China is very appreciated. We probably -- I think we
are the largest company in terms of R&D investment. This is well appreciated. So, we believe that
we should be able to manage this difficult period. But again, as I said, very difficult to comment at
a very early stage.
Susan, do you want to take this?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, sure. So thanks for the question. So obviously, with every review, there's ongoing discussions.
I think it's fair to say that over the last period of time, the FDA has been increasingly interested in
looking at subgroups within clinical trials, and this isn't the only example of that. So the FDA is
interested in the particular subgroups where the greatest benefit is seen. And, of course, there's
not just within the TL01 study, but obviously, within the single-armed TL05 study, really very robust
activity that was seen within the patients with actionable genomic alterations, and, in particular,
those with EGFR mutations.
So I think, what you're seeing is a reflection on trying to focus initially on that subgroup where is
the greatest benefit, but I think there's also interest in the potential of the patients that have the
biomarker-positive subgroup that we've seen in the TROPIONLung01. We've had ongoing
discussions about the potential route for validation of that biomarker. Of course, we've
incorporated those plans into our ongoing Phase I trials, which AVANZAR, as I've said, is the first
one that we'll read out next year, but TROPION-Lung10 is another example.
And then, again, in combination with osimertinib in the TROPIONLung-14 and 15 studies, so that
we build out, really, a robust set of indications for Dato-DXd in lung cancer. So your question was
about confidence in the profile that we have with Dato-DXd. As I've said a number of times, I
think we've learned a lot from the TROPIONLung01 dataset, not just about the level of activity in
the EGFR mutant, but this potential for the broader patient population. These were things that we
didn't understand at the time that the original TROPIONLung01 study was designed, and that's
the nature of development that you learn as you go. So what we've done is taken those learnings
and adapted the program to maximize that potential benefit.
What I would say is, in terms of looking to the first-line, which is obviously the biggest indication
that we've got for non-small cell lung cancer, that given the safety and efficacy that we've seen
from the TROPIONLung02 and the TROPIONLung04 studies, for combination and the ability to
combine with platinum-based chemotherapy as well as IO, we're very confident about that
profile.
And also, as I've indicated as well, the biomarker data that we've seen in TROPIONLung01, we've
looked in other datasets as well, and we also think we've got evidence that that will translate
across different datasets, including from internal datasets in early-aligned settings as well. So I
think the overall profile that we have with Dato-DXd and the potential to maximize the benefit
using the biomarker in broader patient populations is something that we're now probably
increasingly confident about given the latest data that have emerged. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. So the next question is from Sachin, Bank of America.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `Yes. Hi, there. Thanks for taking my questions. Same two topics, if I may, please. So firstly, for
Susan, on Dato, you indicated at World Lung that you're in a debate with the FDA around
changing the AVANZAR stat plan. I just wonder how far progressed you are with that and whether
the TLO1 debate has influenced that at all.
And the second one is just back on '25, just to get a bit more color, if I could, from Pascal or
Aradhana. You've listed two main headwinds, Farxiga VBP and IRA. Will you just give us your best
quantification or expectations around those? The reason I ask the question, Crestor did better
than expected in VBP. IRA, you've historically framed as manageable. So neither seem like
material headwinds to existing high-teens growth, suggesting that revenues could continue to
double-digit for next year. So just any perspectives there. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So maybe let me cover the second one, and then I think, Susan, we can go back to Dato. And
Ruud and Dave, if you want to comment on the IRA. So on the China side, what you should
expect for Farxiga is what we saw with Crestor, which is a decline and then a stabilization and a
growth, because our plan is to do with Farxiga what we did with Crestor. And there is a market for
these products that patients actually buy directly online with electronic prescriptions, essentially,
and then get it delivered to their home.
Now, the sales will not be at the same level as they are today for sure, just like happened with
Crestor. But we believe we can go down and then grow again and keep Farxiga for quite some
time to come. But next year, you should expect a decline. I mean, we can't give you a specific
indication for 2025 Farxiga, but you should expect a substantial decline.
And then, Ruud, do you want to cover IRA, and anything, Dave, you would want to add?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, of course. And once again, currently, we are not assuming that Farxiga, in our guidance for
this year, that Farxiga will be in the VBP. It's not -- it hasn't been announced, but that's a clear
assumption. And let's see how it works for 2025, as Pascal mentioned, Sachin.
Regarding the IRA, I think it's a little bit of a mixed bag. On one hand, we know that the out-of-
pocket cost will be lower. It will also be smooth over the full year in the course of 2025. So patient
adherence probably will be better than what we have seen in the past. But of course, the liability
for some of our products, and I will hand over in a second to Dave regarding the oral oncology
products, we will see a certain impact. But when we will give the guidance in the beginning of
2025, that will be part of the way we will guide for that specific year.
But overall I think it's fair to say that from a biopharma perspective, the IRA impact will be
manageable. We have good programs in place to drive further volume. We've seen that clearly
with the Symbicort performance particularly. Farxiga is still performing very well in the U.S. market,
and we don't think that it will substantially slow down in the course of 2025. Dave?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thanks, Ruud. Sachin, I think that, again, we've talked about this in the past, but I also believe that
IRA is manageable coming into next year. We know that IRA has resulted in important
improvements in affordability for Medicare patients in the United States. That's resulted in
increased adherence, also lower reliance on free drug programs. We've seen that. I think that
you've also seen that in other earnings announcements that have come out from othercompanies on their oral, if you will, kind of more expensive specialty medicines, and you've seen
that across the board.
Obviously, next year, we take on the 20% liability in the catastrophic phase for the first time. So
that's a mechanic that we haven't experienced in 2024. But also within that, the affordability
improves even further, and I think that we would hope and expect more patients to be able to
afford to be on commercial drug and that capping is something that can benefit. And I think
importantly our oral oncolytics, Pascal talked about this, as did Susan, in the slides, we've got
really excellent growth drivers on Tagrisso and Calquence, and I think that that's where I'm
focusing my efforts in the year ahead on making sure that we get those to patients as quickly and
rapidly as we can.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
It really is important, as Dave said, to consider the new indications because as we launch those
new indications, for instance, Tagrisso or Calquence, patients will have the ability to benefit from
those indications without having to ask for free products. So we really have in part only, of course,
a partial shield to the negative effect of IRA. That's why we keep -- I mean, we've never
quantified it externally, but we've said many times it's manageable, and we continue to believe
it's manageable. Having gone through our planning process now and our budgeting process, we
continue to believe it's manageable.
There is an online question coming from Christopher Uhde --
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
I haven't answered the second --
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. Go ahead, Susan.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So, Sachin had a -- thank you for the question on Dato about AVANZAR. So just as a reminder,
once we saw the initial results from TROPIONLung01, we made some modifications to AVANZAR.
We've increased the sample size, 1,280 patients. We capped the number of squamous patients
so that we ensured that we had good power within the non-squamous patient population in both
the ITT and biomarker groups within AVANZAR. And to answer your question specifically, have we
discussed those changes with the FDA? Yes, of course, we've discussed those changes with the
FDA.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
Sorry, Susan, I thought you were discussing further changes to the staff plan --
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
There is a question from Christopher Uhde at SEB. And Dato, you've covered, but the question is
-- the second question is Lynparza, and it's an online question. It says, what are you seeing in
ovarian in the wake of PRIMA bombing on OS? It's probably more a question for Dave, actually.
What share do you think you can capture? And how confident are you in a positive outcome for
MONO-OLA as well as DUO-O, and when might we expect to see OS results? So a bit of Dave
and a bit for Susan, yes?A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Why don't I start first on Lynparza? I think very importantly, when we take a look at the year,
following second half of last year where the class, particularly in the U.S., was really undergoing a
lot of second-line headwinds from FDA-mandated changes to labels, we've now seen in 2024
two consecutive quarters of sequential growth in Q2 and Q3. We've got the highest levels of
sales for Lynparza globally that we've experienced to date and historically, and I think we're on a
good growth trajectory. That growth is predominantly coming from ovarian cancer and from
breast cancer, and that's true across the globe. Of course, within Europe, we are seeing uptake
within prostate cancer, less on prostate within the U.S.
Certainly, the PRIMA news represents an important opportunity. We do already have pretty
substantial market share in that ovarian setting, but we're also at a place with this medicine where
we are leaving no stone unturned, and that represents an opportunity and one where we believe
that we've got a great story to tell and a differentiated one with PAOLA-1, and we'll stay focused
in on that to continue on our growth trajectory for Lynparza.
Do you want to address the MONO-OLA and the DUO-E -- or DUO-O, excuse me?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So for the DUO-O, the mature OS is anticipated in 2025. I don't think we've guided more
specifically before that. Of course, that will be event-driven for OS. And in a number of our
ovarian cancer studies with Lynparza, we faced slowing event rates. So it depends a little bit on
that event rate coming in about the timing of that. For the MONO-OLA study, I also think that the
latest clinical trial appendix is the latest timelines for that, which is really in the second half of next
year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. Next question is from `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank at Danske Bank. Over to you, Gonzalo.
Well, sounds like we don't have the connection to Gonzalo. Let's move to `Steve Scala, Cowen and Company at Cowen.
Over to you, Steve, and we'll come back to Gonzalo maybe later.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen and Company `
Thank you so much. Two questions. Dave, you spoke on the second quarter call about a robust
Enerhtu acceleration in the second half of the year. In Q3, do you think a robust acceleration was
achieved? And should we look for further acceleration in Q4? So that's the first question. Second
question is, could you give us some clarity on the likely regulatory timing of Dato-DXd with the
addition of TLO-5? For instance, when was it filed? And given FDA is familiar with some of the
data and presumably the filing strategy, this new filing strategy was their idea, could approval
come by mid-2025? Or is that completely unrealistic? Thank you.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
So, Steve, on your question on Enerhtu, I think we remained very focused in the quarter on driving
against both DESTINYBreast03 in the HER2 positive setting, as well as with DESTINYBreast04.
What I was hoping that we would see in the quarter and we haven't seen yet is a inclusion of
DESTINYBreast06 into the guidelines. I think that, that is a catalyst that is important to be able to
really see a change in the growth trajectory within Enerhtu.That maybe begs the question, then why do I think that we haven't seen yet the guidelines
change yet? And I think that the primary reason and the answer on that is that I do think that in
instances of a new biomarker population where ultra-low is, I think, while something we've talked
a lot about, something that is really a new population. I think oftentimes the guidelines wait both
for FDA and also for the pathology community to play more of a leading role in helping the
definition there. So I look forward to Enerhtu going through a change in trajectory as we're able to
both see 06 within both the guidelines and also then ultimately approval so that we can promote
to it.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
And to answer the question on Dato, we submitted really very recently. And normally, of course,
we announce a file acceptance. But given the special circumstances around Dato, we've made an
exception to make that announcement now.
For the -- as I said in my prepared remarks, with the encouragement of the FDA, we have also
applied for breakthrough therapy designation. If breakthrough therapy designation were to be
granted, that would also give us encouragement about the opportunity for a potential priority
review. So we'll have to wait and see for that file acceptance and for the breakthrough therapy
designation decision in order to be clearer on the timelines.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. So the next question is from `Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs at Goldman Sachs. Over to you,
Rajan.
Q - `Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. So just on Farxiga VBP, so you mentioned that you're expecting
inclusion in 2025, but I think you previously expected it in 2024, which hasn't materialized. So it
would be just helpful to understand why that could be '25 and not, in fact, '26 or beyond.
And then the second question is just on operating margins into next year. I realize you're not
going to guide on the numbers specifically, but just your comfort around current consensus
estimates? So the trajectory is implying a slightly stronger accretion into '25 and then more
moderated accretion into '26. Is that how you're expecting it to materialize? Or should we expect
that to be more linear? Thank you.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, Rajan, let me take the first question. So, first of all, once again, we have assumed -- our
guidance assumed that Farxiga will not be included in VBP-10. In fact, the list hasn't been
announced yet, so we're still waiting for that. And of course, then the big ticket item is when VBP-
11 will be announced, and at this stage, I think it's too speculative in order to give any answer on
that. It can be the beginning of next year, but it can also be later. So we are a little bit in the dark
there.
So overall, we will give hopefully a little bit more guidance in the beginning of 2025 when we
have our first full year results. But so far, we are not able to provide any more clarity for Farxiga in
2025. It will not happen. I think that's highly likely now in the course of 2024.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `And then your question on 2025 and 2026 operating margins, again, we obviously will give
guidance when we do our full year results and guide to 2025. But what I'd point out is, if you look
at the third quarter results and the revenue growth rate at 21% versus the operating expense
growth at 15% and the SG&A growth only at 9%, that gives you a sense of the focus on operating
leverage and obviously growing SG&A at a much lower pace than the revenue growth, while at
the same time continuing to invest in the R&D portfolio.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana. So, Rajan, I mean, essentially, keep in mind, we will continue working on
leverage. And again, if you look at what kind of top-line growth we can deliver next year based on
the momentum we have, and considering the headwinds, and you look at a bit of leverage, you
can immediately conclude that we are very comfortable with the outlook in 2025. I mean, so we
are in a good place, really, based on the momentum we have today.
`Etzer Darout, BMO Capital Markets at BMO. Over to you, Etzer.
Q - `Etzer Darout, BMO Capital Markets `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. Can you hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Etzer Darout, BMO Capital Markets `
Great. Yes, just one quick follow-up question on Dato-DXd. Just wondering if maybe there's any
read-through to the TROPION-Breast01 upcoming regulatory decision in first half 2025, just given
that you think about the application, statistical benefit on PFS, directional OS benefit, I guess
similar to the non-squamous cell population from TROPIONLung01. Just wondered if there's any
read-through there. And then on the QCS biomarker strategy and the decision, did the QCS
biomarker strategy have any impact on the decision on TROPIONLung01, and is there any read-
through, positive or negative, on AVANZAR based on those decisions? Thank you.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Okay. So the TROPIONBreast01 filing is still under review. Again, what we've seen there is a
clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival. We've said the high level results
that we didn't see overall survival in that setting. And again, I think there's -- in the context of that
setting, there's both crossover with patients treated with other ADCs in that setting, which I think
has the potential to affect the later readouts such as that. So we're really in ongoing discussions
with the FDA, and I don't have any new updates at the moment. The regulatory decision is really
expected in the first half of next year, as you've said.
The QCS biomarker in terms of, did the biomarker strategy affect the discussions about the plans
for the indication? No, I don't believe so. What we said is when we saw the TLO-1 data that, that
biomarker would require prospective validation in another trial. So I don't think it's affected that. I
do think there's strong interest across the community, investigators included in this potential for
identifying a patient population that's particularly sensitive. And I think it does help to explain, as
we said before, the difference in the -- by histology in non-squamous versus squamous
population. So I think there's a high level of interest in that. But we've always said it would require
prospective validation. And that's why we've had those plans and discussions with regulatoryQ - `Etzer Darout, BMO Capital Markets `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic, Redburn. Simon, over to you.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic `
Thank you, Pascal. Two questions, if I may. The first one on China, but on the bit of China where
you do have visibility. I just wondered if you could update us on your usual dialogue with Chinese
authorities. Is that unaffected by what's going on with these investigations? I mean, you clearly
have a very strong relationship with the authorities over there. Has that been disrupted at all by
what we're seeing here? And then just a very quick rider on the end. Any color on that ex-China
emerging markets growth on a regional country basis would be quite handy.
And then secondly, a question that we've received quite a lot in the last couple of weeks, which is
on the question of buybacks. I know your view over more than a decade has been very clear on
that. But in light of recent moves and the egregious reaction to what's happened in China, is a
buyback any more attractive at sub-100 than it was at 130? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
That's great. Thanks, Simon. The first question, maybe I can quickly comment on China. And Ruud,
you can comment on China, if you want, but also the emerging markets. And then, Aradhana, will
you take the buyback? Knowing that, of course, this will be a bold decision, but certainly Aradhana
can give you some early thoughts.
So far, we haven't been approached. So in terms of the cases we said before, we haven't got any
details as to the cases. We haven't -- as a company, we haven't been approached. Our operation
is actually -- our company is operating as usual, including the work we do at the regional or central
level, and the various discussions with authorities. So we are really operating as business as usual.
I mean, China remains a very important country for us, both from the viewpoint of delivering
medicines to the many patients who need our products, but also in terms of the innovation that
can take place in that country. And we haven't seen, so far, any sign that we are not operating as
business as usual.
Having said that, as I said a bit earlier, it would be logical to assume some impact for at least a
period of time, but it really is too early to say anything at this point in time. We really don't have
enough data to say anything.
Ruud, do you want to comment on that?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, a little bit --
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Just to -- sorry, I forgot to mention, and I should mention it is, Ruud is actually, as you know, on an
interim basis managing the whole of international, including, of course, China, but also non-China.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `Yes. Thank you, Pascal. But coming back to China for one second, if you take the NRDL
discussions as a proof point, so far that is really going business as usual. So once again, it's too
far -- too early to speculate about any potential impact in the near future. But so far, I think the
teams are very dedicated in order to deliver a strong performance also moving forward.
Having said that, very pleasing to see the growth in ex-China. That remains a very strong story for
AstraZeneca and for, of course, the people working in those parts. The Latin region specifically is
doing extremely well, but also Middle East and Africa region is performing very well, and we have
good hopes that, that will continue in the foreseeable future. The portfolio we are having in those
markets is really fit for purpose in order to help those patients, whether it is in biopharma,
oncology, and more and more also in rare diseases. So we continue to see strong growth in that,
and equally in 2025, we don't see big hiccups in those parts of the world.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
I think it would be fair to say that every region with international is growing strongly. I mean, Latin
America, strong growth, Brazil, Mexico in particular. Strong growth in the Middle East, which is
really a big opportunity in terms of growth potential. I was personally in South Asia recently. I
mean, the team is very excited. The growth rates there are pretty good. So across the whole of
international regions, we are doing very, very well.
Aradhana, do you want to talk about buybacks?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. So you're absolutely right. Generally, our view around buybacks has been -- we've done
buybacks generally to offset the dilution from the share issuances, the employee stock issuances
in the past. I'll take a moment to remind you of our capital allocation priorities, which remain the
same, which is first and foremost obviously investing in the business. That includes the CapEx,
including stuff we have announced today, but really supporting the business from both a clinical
and commercial standpoint.
Second is on business development. You've seen us do very strategic and opportunistic business
development, which is continuing to progress. The third is to maintain a progressive dividend. You
saw that we increased our dividend this year and -- but given the circumstances now and what we
believe is an overreaction in the market, we will consider and think about buybacks as well as part
of our overall capital allocation priorities. Thank you.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic `
Thanks so much. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So the next question is `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question. Perhaps a quick follow-up on AVANZAR, if I may, just to clarify,
is all-comers still the intent for the primary analysis? And do you have agency alignment on that?
And then maybe a question on the outlook for the respiratory franchise. Very strong quarter for
Symbicort and Breztri. Maybe you could talk a little bit about the sustainability of the former
Symbicort. Can that continue to be a source of growth in 2025 and indeed beyond? And thenBreztri, what about the potential to accelerate that in 2025, given not only the IRA tailwind, but
more importantly, the asthma readouts you have coming in the first half of the year? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Susan, do you want to take the first one, and Ruud, will you take after?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So AVANZAR is powered for both ITT and biomarker-positive group, as we said, and I think very
well-powered in both of those groups, given the N of 1,280 in that group. So we're confident
about the confidence to see benefit in both groups.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Okay. So thank you so much, Emmanuel, for the questions regarding the respiratory portfolio.
Indeed, a very strong growth. Equally, I'll say a few words about Symbicort and Breztri in a
moment, but also the biologic portfolio is growing very fast as we speak, both Fasenra as well as
Tezspire. Tezspire is on its way to become a $1 billion brand, together with our colleagues of
Amgen.
Specifically, regarding Symbicort, I think it's fair to say it's a great question, but difficult really to
give a lot of guidance here in such a way that the mix of the different book of business is
favorable as we speak, and we don't know how that will evolve in the course of 2025. We're
following it. It is also clear that our strategy in order to launch an authorized generic as well as
lowering our list price, the WAC price in the United States, is benefiting us clearly at the moment.
But there are also uncertainties about the number of generics coming into the marketplace.
So all in all, a very promising 2024. Whether that will continue in 2025 needs to be seen, but of
course, it also clearly indicates that Symbicort is really one of the cornerstone medicines for the
treatment of asthma and COPD in the United States. The brand loyalty is extremely, extremely
strong.
Breztri is clearly a different story. It's still what we call in the early launch phases, very strong
growth across the board, not only in the United States, but more and more in other parts of the
world as well. I think 2025 is a crucial year because we are expecting the readout of the pivotal
COPD, the asthma story -- the asthma trial, the RESOLUTE trial for Breztri. So that's an important
one as well.
And equally, we are putting a lot of resources behind the product in order to make that a multi-
billion-dollar opportunity. And equally, of course, we're also looking forward to the outcome trial
of Breztri moving forward in the cardiovascular space. So that's -- I need to make one small point.
It was not the RESOLUTE trial. The RESOLUTE trial is the Fasenra, COPD trial. It's the KALOS trial
reading out, hopefully also next year, the outcome trial in asthma.
So all in all, I think a very promising start, and we are looking forward to see even better results
moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. `Jo Walton, UBS, UBS.
Q - `Jo Walton, UBS `Thank you. My questions go back to topics we've already covered, I'm afraid. But just to follow-up
and make sure I understand this on Dato-DXd. You've clearly learned that there's more of a
benefit in EGFR patients. But in AVANZAR, which is reporting next year, you've deliberately
excluded AGA patients. Does that increase the risk of the trial? I appreciate you've altered the
study design after TROPIONLung01, but presumably that doesn't impact the fact that you've
excluded the AGA patients who are potentially the ones that this drug works best in. So that's my
first question.
And the second one is I'm afraid to go back to China. I've had investor questions, those people
who unfortunately weren't able to hear Aradhana give that very helpful call themselves. So the
questions that we get are, of the roughly 100 reps that you talk about that have been, in your
view, potentially identified and charged, how many of those did you identify and get rid of for
having discovered potential malpractice yourselves, which would show confidence in your internal
compliance? And how many of them were only found to have potentially done something after
they had voluntarily left your employment? And has the current situation in China impacted any
senior management plans to actually, for people who are based outside of China, to travel in
China?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Jo, we still have -- thank you for those two questions. We still have a lot of questions waiting
and we have limited time. So for China, can I just refer everybody to the transcript? Aradhana had
a lot of good answers to those questions. Let me just say only that the point you raised about
people being -- some people not being with the company actually highlights the difficulty we've
had to identify the number of people because a lot of those people were not with the company
anymore. So we don't have any precise data. We have data based on what we can put together,
based on what we know from employees, but also what the families could tell us of people
who've left us. But in terms of the rest, I think the transcript would address your questions.
And on the Dato question, Susan --
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. So thanks for the question. So yes, you're of course right. The first-line studies exclude the
patients with actionable genomic alterations because the appropriate therapies for those
patients are the therapies directed against those actionable genomic alterations. But the
TROPIONLung02 and 04 studies that look at the combination of Dato with platinum-based
chemotherapy and IO give you confidence about what you can potentially achieve in terms of the
response rate, progression-free survival and later outcomes. And that's what that is built upon for
the ITT population. And as those datasets continue to mature, I think we continue to have
confidence that we've got a good probability of success in the ITT population, particularly when
focused on the non-squamous patient population, which is what we've done when we learned
about the TROPIONLung01 dataset.
The opportunity to then also look in the biomarker positive, again, based on the effect size that
we saw in that group in the TROPIONLung01, is further confidence that you can build. And as I've
said, looking at internal datasets, we think that the biomarker that we identified in
TROPIONLung01 can also enrich for activity against those endpoints of both response rate and
progression-free survival in the earlier line setting. So when you look at it as a totality, I think we've
got the safety profile, the efficacy profile, and the opportunity to enrich within those first line
studies. And that's what underpins the confidence in the AVANZAR study.A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
I think, Jo, if I could add two points on your question. The first one, I think, is an important
reminder, is that in TROPIONLung01, we didn't have a pre-planned stats plan for non-squamous.
And I think that that's an important part of how the dataset was then being interpreted. But I think
that had we shown the results that we did in a statistical analysis, those would have been
statistically significant and clinically meaningful. And I think that we've applied the lessons from
that into the front-line. So I think that's an important piece.
And I think that your question on the AGA patients coming out, I mean, it's a really different
population when we're talking about EGFR, TKI-naive population, and so we are interested in that
population, and that's TROPION-Lung14, which is looking at Tagrisso plus Dato, in addition to the
other studies that are being looked at in the non-AGA population.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Two great points. And maybe just one more, which is really these combinations of Tagrisso and
Dato, I think, will represent a great opportunity to defend Tagrisso and extend the treatment
duration. So not only they will be good for Dato, but they will be good for Tagrisso. And we know
that there is combination out there, but we will be the only company with -- or the only EGFR
third-generation with a combination with Dato. So that will be very material to life cycle of
Tagrisso as well.
`Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken at Handelsbanken.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken `
Yes. Thanks a lot for the question. One more, please, on China, and I don't think it was covered
on the (inaudible) course. So on back of the medical insurance fraud case in 2021, it was clear that
AstraZeneca tightened and changed its compliance system in China with more compliance
officers and a new whistleblower system put in place. My question goes, what's been the main
change in your view from then and today? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. If I get your question correctly, Mathias, I'm not 100% sure I do. Let me just make a few
comments, and then you can say whether I have not addressed your question.
First of all, you need to understand that the series of cases that have unfolded over time, they
have unfolded over time as a result of the investigation that we conducted, but also importantly
the authorities conducted, and it's important to remember the authorities have access to a lot
more data than we do, because we cannot actually check people's personal WeChat systems.
We don't know what they do with their telephone, their personal telephones, et cetera, et cetera.
So, a lot of this data has come about over time, and the cases refer back to this period of time
that when we had reimbursement for T790M mutation, but no reimbursement for Tagrisso.
And I think it's also important to keep in mind in the whole context is we had -- with this one and
also with the illegal importation, we had a temporary situation. The illegal importation really
happened because Enhertu was not approved in China, and that is now gone because it's
approved in China. So hopefully moving forward, those, for the lack of a better word,
temptations, if you want to, that some of our reps in the field can have are gone. So that's maybe
one point.In terms of -- yes, so the testing opportunity ended in March 2021, just like the opportunity to
import on Enhertu to from Hong Kong disappeared also early '24 when we launched in China. So
all those things are no longer there. So the environment is suddenly a lot more -- a lot simpler, if
you want, right?
In terms of the improvements we've made to our systems, we've really retrained everybody, we
have whole sorts of measures in place to improve compliance. But the most important ones I
believe are the compliance changes we've implemented more recently that go beyond our
systems because I think we have really top-notch systems to monitor our internal data, so
monitor expense reports, monitor internal emails, and by the way, people now really are told to
use our internal systems only and not their external -- their own systems. But we have lots of
policies and systems in place to track expense report, use of credit cards, use of certified food
suppliers, et cetera, et cetera.
Now we have to look at what's happening outside our system. And two changes we've made that
I think are important is we now have a number of compliance officers in the field. Every region has
a compliance officer because those people will be close to our sales force and able to identify,
hopefully by talking to people on a daily basis, identify early anything that could happen that is not
controlled by the policing of our systems.
The second thing we've done is we are rotating, we're going to be rotating the original sales
director, so they don't stay too long in the same place because, of course, if you stay in the same
place you can actually be impacted in your behavior. And so those -- I mean, we've made many
other changes, but those are maybe the two most, I think, fundamental. And they relate to
people because you have systems and the systems you can track. Then you have people and
what they do and that you have no way to track them, unless you really are close to them in the
field. So hopefully, I addressed your questions. If not, maybe you can come back later.
And the next question is `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel at Stifel.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Stifel `
Yes. Thank you, Pascal. Good afternoon. First question relates to CapEx, maybe question for
Aradhana. You mentioned after nine months $1.2 billion in CapEx this year, which would analyze
around $1.8 billion. And today you're announcing a $3.5 billion CapEx investment in the U.S. spread
over two years, nonetheless represent about doubling CapEx for each of the next two years if
that's incremental. Maybe you can elaborate of how we should think about modeling CapEx into
the second part of the decade. You were roughly between $1 billion and $1.5 billion a year, now
you're moving into roughly $2 billion. Should we think about getting up to $3 billion or more every
year into the second part of the decade? You also talked about increased CapEx on the weight
loss management call. So just to put that into perspective.
And a shorter question on Airsupra, maybe for Ruud. At the very end of last year, you made
significant investment in commercial marketing to support the launch of Airsupra. And we're now
one year into the launch. You're pleased with how the drug is doing from a prescription and
number of prescribers and et cetera, but it's not fully reflecting in numbers yet. Are you still
confident in reaching blockbuster status with this drug? And when should we expect an inflection
point? Thank you.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thank you. So I'll address the -- I think there were several subparts to your CapEx question.
So first of all, CapEx for 2024, we always see in every year a big spike in fourth quarter CapEx. SoI think that's still to be expected this year. But the guidance we had given for the full year was it
would be a 50% increase over our CapEx in 2023, again, driven by several projects that I had
listed.
Also, we had mentioned that these projects that we started are multi-year projects. So it's not
like we start a facility this year and it's built and ready next year. So these are multi-year
investments, whether it's the cell therapy facility or the API facility in Ireland or the respiratory
inhaled facility in Qingdao. These are all multi-year, anywhere from between three to five-year
type projects that we've started. So that's one element and how you can think about on a going
forward basis.
I think the second question was around how do we think about CapEx, broadly speaking. And I'd
say as our portfolio expands and you mentioned the GLP1, we will again need to make the
investments to support our portfolio. So the announcement today is also related to some of the
investments we would need to make for clinical trial manufacturing. But again, there's not only
manufacturing investment, there are also R&D investments. So in Kendall Square in Cambridge,
we're building brand new labs and bringing together all the researchers that we have in the
Boston area and growing that footprint. So it's both investments in labs as well as in capital form
of manufacturing standpoint.
And again, the portfolio success will drive some of that investment and many of the new
technologies, as you know, require investment at risk. So that's what we'll continue to do. Then I'll
hand over to Ruud on Airsupra.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes. Okay. Thank you so much, Eric. So first of all, to answer your question about do we still
believe it's $1 billion plus opportunity, the short answer is a clear yes. I think also the recent
BATURA data further emphasized the importance of these medicines for the treatment of
asthma as a rescue medication.
Secondly, yes, we are very pleased with the progress we are making with Airsupra. As I said in my
prepared remarks, we have now more than 50,000 prescribers in the United States. More than
200,000 patients are on the drug. And this is all about getting more access. At the moment, we
have roughly 60% commercial access that will increase in the next few months. But more
importantly, also from the 1 of January, we are expecting our first Part D access as well, and that
will further boost the product. We're buying down very substantial amounts of scripts as we
speak, and that will diminish in the course of 2025. So my clear remark is stay tuned, but we are
very committed, and this product will move to $1 billion over the next few years.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. And by the way, we're also exploring opportunities outside of the U.S., which
certainly gives further confidence in the product on a global basis.
Next question is `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC at HSBC. Rajesh, over to you.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I will come to a question related to China, but not
China itself. I appreciate you don't know much about China and you have tightened a lot of
compliance policy around there. Should investors think about any other regions where you mighthave to tighten your compliance policies? Or was there something peculiar about incentive
structures in China that drove that behavior, which does not exist elsewhere?
And the second one is on Dato. I appreciate you have a biomarker. Your confidence seems to
have gone up. It's great to see a setback has not detracted you from trying out again. How can
you give investors confidence that this time this confidence is not misplaced, but is rooted in a lot
more data or information that has informed decision to double up on Dato?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Rajesh. So let me cover the China question and, Susan, you could cover the Dato
question.
So, yes, there was something peculiar in China, but it has nothing to do with the sales force
targets. And in fact, if you look at the last few years, last six years, China achieved its target
overall, except during the COVID period. But COVID, we knew that the reasons, everybody was
wearing masks or we had lockdown, et cetera, and the sales force actually reached the bonus,
the target bonus.
The peculiar thing -- and so the target in China were not specially stretched. And then if you look
at it, in fact, our biopharma business has no issue. So the peculiar thing is very simple. It is that,
unfortunately, we had a period of time when there was a disconnect -- not a disconnect, but a
difference in reimbursement. Tagrisso was only reimbursed for T790M. And as you can imagine,
patients who were not positive and then wanted or could benefit from Tagrisso wanted it if they
were EGFR mutants. And that created an issue in terms of creating an incentive for people to try
and misbehave on this front, unfortunately.
The other peculiar thing was launching new products in Hong Kong that were not yet approved in
China Mainland. Over the next period of time, this won't happen again because we're not
launching new products in Hong Kong that will not be approved in the -- on the Mainland, simply
because we don't have new products to launch. In the future, we'll try to time align, if we can,
those two launches. And what is giving us hope is China's approval is happening much faster now
than in the past. And if we cannot time align, we will certainly make sure we really follow supply
very, very closely.
But this is what was peculiar, is that a specific environment around a few products in oncology, I
think that specific peculiar environment is no longer there, but certainly we are tightening our
compliance outside our systems, as I explained.
Now, we run a very large organization. I don't have any reason to believe there are issues
anywhere else. But the whole industry has had issues in the U.S. many years ago. So you can
never say we'll never have any issue. But today, we think we have a very good compliance
system, we have people who actually follow our code of ethics, compliance is a priority
everywhere.
I also want -- I mean, I don't want to underestimate the issue we've had. And trust me, we take it
very seriously. But I also want to make sure that we realize there is another -- I mean, we have
12,000 people in sales force. We have another 11,900 people in sales force that are doing a
good job in a compliant manner. And we should not throw all these people, all this team in the
same bag as the 100 who misbehaved. And then also we have several thousand people outside
the sales force that are also doing a good work every day.So that's what I can say, but we of course will continue to manage compliance. We have more
than 200 people in our global compliance team around the world. And then we have local
compliance people also that are connected and report to the global teams. So this is certainly a
big priority for us.
Susan, Dato?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, sure. So one of the reasons why I enjoy my job so much is that I've constantly got the
opportunity to learn. That's the nature of drug development and what we do, we're constantly
learning. And the reason why I'm more confident about Dato-DXd now is that we know more than
we did at the time that we designed the TROPION-Lung01 study. At that point, we didn't
understand that there was going to be a difference in outcome between patients with non-
squamous versus squamous cancer, and we didn't have the biomarker data that we currently
have now.
We also didn't have as much data from the studies that obviously I've mentioned a couple of
times, the TROPION-Lung02 and 04 studies, which show the ability to combine safely with
platinum, the increase in response rate that, that gives, and the ability to combine safely with the
IO drugs. So we know much more now than we did at the time that the TROPION-Lung01 study
was designed. And we're taking those learnings and embedding them into the first-line studies in
non-small cell lung cancer, but also taking those principles and embedding them across the rest
of the Dato program.
And I think the computational pathology technology is something that will help us optimize the
benefit-risk profile for antibody drug conjugates across our portfolio. These are inherently
targeted medicines. They're targeted to the cell surface receptor. In the case of TROP2, though,
just immunohistochemistry alone doesn't give you all the information that you need about the
patients that are most likely to benefit, and we've mentioned a few times that we need to look at
the internalization rate as well. So we know a lot more, and that's what gives me confidence
about the ability to maximize the potential of Dato-DXd, which I think has the potential to be a
very important medicine. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Maybe going back very quickly to the previous question, I said we have more than
200 people in the global compliance team around the world. In China itself, we have more than
200 people doing compliance-related work, either in the global compliance team or in finance
functions. People are doing really compliance work and checking on our internal systems on a
regular basis.
Gonzalo at Danske. Go ahead.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank `
Hi. Can you hear me now?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank `Great. Just one on Dato-DXd filing, I'm not sure if I missed it, but could you clarify if you will also
follow-up after approval of this Dato initial indication outside the U.S. based on current available
data? And if so, are you planning to file in the near term? Thank you very much.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Okay. So thanks for the question. So we announced in the last quarter that we had submitted the
European filing in particular. That review and that regulatory review is ongoing. So I don't have any
more information to share with you at this point. Obviously, the background regulations in the U.S.
and other regions do differ in some regards. So we have to wait for the feedback from the
regulatory authorities in other regions. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. For the last few questions, can I ask everybody to try and stick to one question?
And maybe I remember that we have more than one product, more than Dato in our portfolio.
But over to you, `Peter Welford, Jefferies at Jefferies.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies `
Hi. Thank you. Very quick, two-factor question. One, just on, I'm afraid it's China and Dato, but
China, can you just confirm, is Leon still an employee of AstraZeneca at this moment in time? And
then secondly, on Dato, is there any plan to change at all the TLO7 and TLO8 trials, because
they're the ones with KEYTRUDA, to include a QCS biomarker analysis, the primary endpoint, as
is done with the AVANZAR? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So first question, in the interest of time, it's in the transcript, so I would refer you to it. And second
question, Susan, you want to?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So, again, I would just say for TLO8, which is in the PD-L1 high patient population, I think that's a
different context in terms of the opportunity there. For TLO7, the primary endpoint for that study
is obviously in an intent to treat patient population. So again, in contrast to a AVANZAR where we
had designed the study with the opportunity to look in a biomarker positive patient population, I
think it's a little different for TROPIONLung07.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question. I think we still have a couple of questions. `Emily Field, Barclays. Emily, go ahead.
Emily, you may be on mute. We can't hear you. Okay. Could we try the next question? Sounds like
-- oh, `Luisa Hector, Berenberg. Luisa, over to you.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Thank you. Can you hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, go ahead, Luisa.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `Thanks, Pascal. So my question is linked to the FDA focus that we've seen for some time now in
those subgroups looking for patients that really see the benefit. So could you remind us the
rationale for running SERENA-4, which is in a smaller subgroup, and then SERENA-6, and perhaps
your levels of confidence ahead of those trials, and how we should think about those two
potential outcomes. Thank you.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thanks, Luisa. I'm very happy to talk about camizestrant, our next-generation SERD inhibitor. And
as you rightly point out, two important catalysts that are upcoming with, it's SERENA-6 that's in the
selected patient population, patient with ESR1 mutations. So this study is a novel trial design,
which is guided by circulating tumor DNA detection of rising ESR1 mutation levels. Obviously, right
at the beginning of patient's journey with ER-positive breast cancer, there's low levels of this
mutation, but it tends to be clonally selected over time, particularly on aromatase inhibitors.
So the trial design is camizestrant plus a CDK4/6 inhibitor versus continuation on the aromatase
inhibitor and a CDK4/6 inhibitor. And I think given the data that's been seen with this class of
drugs in ESR1 mutants, we've got a high probability of success here. It's also built off the PADA-1
dataset, where we'd looked at fulvestrant, which isn't as potent a SERD inhibitor versus
continuation on aromatase inhibitor in this setting. And again, that gives us confidence about that
trial.
However, the actual target for camizestrant is the estrogen receptor. The original targeted
therapies were hormonal therapies targeting the estrogen receptor. And so it's not just those
patients with ESR1 mutations that are likely to benefit. It is the broader wild-type patient
population that are endocrine sensitive that are likely to benefit.
And again, we've previously seen that improving endocrine therapy can improve the outcomes.
And that's really across a range of both adjuvant as well as first-line, in particular, metastatic ER-
positive breast cancer. So I think the data that we've seen from the SERENA-2 dataset, which was
a randomized study in the second-line, if you look at the subgroup that was endocrine sensitive
with that group, we also saw a very positive hazard ratio compared with fulvestrant, which was
the previous best SERD that was available.
So I think both the SERENA-2 data and then the SERENA-3 data in the window of opportunity
study give us confidence that we've got a really best-in-class profile here from a safety and
efficacy perspective that gives us good probability of both those studies being positive, and that
would be a big combination of indications.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So one last question, `Emily Field, Barclays at Barclays.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi. Thank you so much for getting to me. I really appreciate it. And hopefully, this is a good, fun
one to end on. So I know you've said earlier in the year that by the end of 2025, we'll have a
good idea of the achievability of the 2030 $80 billion revenue target. And you have so many
catalysts coming up next year. What would you consider to be the most important ones in
determining the achievability of that target? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Sure.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Great question, Emily, by the way. But a long answer, I suppose. But go ahead, Dave.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
It'd be my pleasure. I think just as we kind of go through and do a little bit of roll call here, I think in
hand already, Emily, really importantly, we've got AMPLIFY, which is very important for Calquence,
opportunity to really establish both a finite and a treat to progression leadership opportunity with
Calquence. And I think that this is going to be an important part of that medicine going forward.
Luisa's question just teed up another really important piece. I think that SERENA-6 and then
following SERENA-4, that's a major readout in 2025. I think that certainly those studies give a
read-through into the CAMBRIA studies as well. So in terms of longer-term unwind of risk.
And then I would really then just highlight, if I was to pick one other additional one on here,
Enhertu moving into earlier lines with DB-09. We know based on what we saw with the 03 study
and how it compares to the front-line studies that we had seen before that there's a really great
opportunity to move in the front-line. The trial design allows for with and without PERJETA. And I
think that this represents another very important growth opportunity in the near term.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, David. Ruud?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes. First of all, I think baxdrostat, I think, it's a great opportunity if the study is positive in a very
difficult-to-treat hypertensive population. But clearly also our entry potentially of Breztri, which I
mentioned in the asthma indication. And last but not least, Fasenra in the COPD indication. So all
of them are very large, either new molecules or new indications. So, very exciting to move into
2025.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And last but not least, Marc for rare disease.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Yes. I mean, my expectation is we have a -- we presently have 10 ongoing Phase 3 on different
molecules for complement. And most of them are going to readout in 2025. So I would expect
that we beat the statistical average of the Phase 3 clinical trials and demonstrate that these
products are safe and active. So this is going to be a very interesting period for Rare Disease in
2025.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Beyond C5, we also have eneboparatide that we'll readout next year, which is
clearly an important product for rare disease, but also for the company overall.So thank you very much for all your great questions and your interest. Let me just quickly
conclude. First of all, I want to say regarding the matters in China, we are really taking this matter
seriously. I mean, I've said it a few times today, but I want to say it again. I also want to say the
investigations are directed at individuals, as we understand it now, so we haven't been really
given access to many details. In fact, we have very limited information, which explains why we
give you the answers we give you.
Aradhana gave a great call last week, and you have the transcript that will give you more
information if you are interested. Again, the fact is, we are trying to be as transparent as we can,
but we have very limited information. And last point is, we are really strengthening our
compliance to make sure that we learn from this issue, we learn from this situation, and then
continue to improve and become even stronger in China, but anywhere in the world.
Second, a quick closing comment is, we had tremendous results in Q3 and in nine months. So
we're very excited with the actually momentum we have to the extent that we are doing better
than we expected, actually, and we've been able to increase, to raise our guidance for the year.
And I think it's important to think about that kind of momentum, I mean, we have a company that
is, on annual basis, around $50 billion now, growing at 19%, 20%. So this is the kind of momentum
we're taking into 2025, with headwinds, for sure, but also new indications to launch new products
that are approved, and we also will continue working on leverage.
So when you take all of this together, you can see why we are confident in the outlook, both from
a revenue, but also an EPS viewpoint. And we are on track to achieve our long-term strategy
ambitions.
As we said before, not everything is going to go perfectly, of course. This is not an easy business
we're in, and we will have, of course, issues, setbacks in our pipeline, but also we expect to
deliver a lot of new news and new products, new indications. And so there's really all -- every
reason to believe we are on track and can deliver on our long-term strategic ambitions.
So with this, thank you again, and I wish you a good rest of the day.