Q1 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
(Call Starts Abruptly) Our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management; and our CFO, `Walter Mertl, Board of Management, Finance, are also back in the room
with me. The line will be open shortly for your questions. The operator will first give you some
technical instructions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) (Operator
Instructions) Our first question comes from `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank. Please unmute your
line.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you very much. It's Tim from Deutsche Bank. I'd have two questions, please. The first
one is, I think the key element to discuss today is the pricing element of your EBIT bridge. All of
your competitors have already reported, we've seen reporting season with very clear trends.
Volume was generally weak, pricing was generally very strong for your competitors. For you that's
not the case. Less volume issues clearly speak for your superior supply chain and model cycle
management. We love that about you guys, that's great. But the pricing raises a few question
marks.
So two questions on that. Is all of the negative pricing that we've seen in the bridge in Q1 BEVs or
do you also see this for ICE? And secondly, will pricing stay as negative, get worse, or better over
the remainder of the year? And as an add-on question, Oliver, you are always very outspoken in
your opinions. All German OEMs are against an import tariff from China, you said it as well again
this morning. Why is this probably still coming nonetheless? Does Ursula von der Leyen just like to
listen to Luca de Me too much? Or are there key points when you talk to EU politicians that
express where that would be the case? Thank you.A - Unidentified Speaker
We start with Walter and then Oliver. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Board of Management, Finance `
Hello, Tim. Thanks for the first question with respect to pricing. As I mentioned, Q1 is already an
exceptional quarter in '23. And we do know that the softening side on global pricing was
happening in Q2, Q3 last year, moving into the Q1 '24. So we are running on the same level.
If you have a look for our average revenue, you see that we are constantly maintaining roughly
EUR50,000 a car, plus/minus FX. So I think we are quite proud about that we are so disciplined,
not just in Europe, but also in the U.S. or in China, because we can elevate these ones. And of
course we have more BEVs, and of course we have fantastically a good upper segment growth
which is more than 20%, which are really helping.
So, that means with respect to your question on the EBIT bars with EUR300 million, yep, that is a
softening effect on pricing between Q1 and the later quarters. You won't see this effect in this
level anymore if you would compare Q2 with Q2 or Q3 with Q3. That's leveraged then already.
And with respect to pricing, it is also an effect as we all do know how much stock we have on-site
on dealers. And just having a look on the dealers in the U.S., the average days outstanding in the
industry increased by 13 days. So this time point in year was 35. Now the average in the industry is
48. We, with the BMW Group, we also increased from 21 to 28 days, but just 28 days, and only 7
days worse than we've been last year. We're leveraging our effects operationally, in my eyes,
quite good. And that also has an impact straight away on our pricing levels in the fields. So I think
we're doing an excellent job.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Walter. The second part was the discussion or the political discussion about
the territories between Europe and China. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Tim, good morning. Why do you raise import taxes? The only purpose is to protect an industry.
We don't think that our industry needs protection. First of all, because we are global market
players. Unlike many other countries, we have many players, not only BMW, who act on a global
base. And that is an industrial advantage. And you can easily endanger that advantage by
introducing import tariffs. That's the first point.
The second point is, we are currently a strong player in China and also as an export location to
Europe. This is quite a different situation for other countries. So that's the current thing. The third
point is, and maybe that is the most fundamental point, we have bilateral dependencies, not on
the final product, but on the component side and also on the raw material side.
Let's just look at the year 2025. In the year 2025, and that is what we are preparing for, and that
is mostly forgotten, we have the first introduction of the next step of CO2 reduction for European
new car fleets by minus 15%. And that is only possible if you increase your level of battery electric
vehicles, emission-free vehicles. And there is no single car in the European Union without having
components from China in there, and if it's only the raw material in the battery. So there is a
mutual dependency. And I would not risk that dependency just by introducing an import tax on the
final product. So we should always have this dependency in mind.In China, you cannot compare China with other countries. And that to compare China is like other
countries, this is not true, it's quite a single entity and has to be dealt with differently. And there is
no Green Deal in Europe without resources from China, it's impossible.
And I'm -- you said I'm outspoken. I say this because afterwards politicians will say, if I would have
known. That's why I say this, they know now. And I'll strictly warn for import tariffs for Chinese
products, specifically because they are just starting. They're not even here yet. Their market
share is very small to this very point. And the rest is about competitiveness. And BMW is
competitive. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Tim. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Thank you very much. Jose from JPMorgan. A few questions, please. First of all for Walter. If you
can please remind us, you announced recently some investments in Shenyang. Can you elaborate
a little bit where the money is going to, is it capacity expansion, is it battery? And which vehicles
are being currently being electrified in Shenyang? Also, if you could discuss a bit, how do you see
the share of electric cars in China in 2024 for BMW? Obviously, you are delivering a much higher
share of BEV versus your competitors, which continues to support that growth on a year-on-year
basis. Where do you see it towards the end of 2024?
And then for Oliver, I would very much like, please, to hear your views on, your competitors seem
to be insourcing further components within the -- within production and assembly of the vehicle.
Some examples are gigacasting and also front bumpers across the production line. Do you see
any opportunities for BMW to insource components to be able to reduce further the cost of the
car? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, thank you very much, Jose. I think we'll start with your first part of the questions about
investments in Shenyang with Oliver, because he was in Shenyang two weeks ago. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yes, thank you. Thank you for your questions. I was two weeks ago I was in Shenyang and we
announced a large investment into the factory infrastructure up in Shenyang. And that is
specifically dedicated in the refurbishment of the oldest factory up in Dadong. So we will take that
factory there because it also has production licensing. So, China is a country where you need a
production license to produce cars. And our mid to long-term vision is to keep our market share
there, which by the way, is substantially higher than the rest of the world. In the rest of the world
we have about 2.93% for BMW, we already have 3.7% in China.
And since the industry in China is growing, we need additional capacity for the future, specifically
because we currently increase our market share on the BEV side. I repeat that, in the first quarter
our BEV sales in China grew by 18%, the average market grew only by 15%. So our ambition is
there to keep or even increase the market share. And that's why we need these productionlicenses in that Dadong plant, which needs refurbishment. So that's the background of that
investment. So, very much in line, by the way, with our long term strategy up there.
You were question about insourcing. Let's have a look at what we do in-house on the high voltage
battery side. The high voltage battery, so that's the element where we make out of single battery
cells, which is an external component developed with us, but it's delivered from external sources,
where we make a high voltage battery, which is then assembled into the car. This is 100% in-
house activity. We're currently building up five factories for these high voltage batteries, one also
in Germany, one in Hungary, one in China, one in the United States and one in Mexico. So that's a
complete in-house sourcing activity.
On the more traditional components like bumpers, we currently see a stable sourcing
environment there. We're always looking very closely are there any changes in our supply
landscape. But that is a very, not robust, but there is a lot of multi-sourcing underway that we will
always have other options to do. There is no major insourcing besides on the EV side. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Jose. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs at Goldman Sachs. Please unmute your line.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Good morning, and thank you for taking my questions. Oliver, I really have two questions for you,
which come back to the comments you made at the full year results, and a lot of the conversation
this morning around EU fleet CO2 legislation. I mean, firstly, I would probably say thank you to
BMW for openly raising this topic, and I think you can raise it because you're in a position of
strength with respect to CO2 compliance. However, investors have been asking whether it is now
too late to make changes? And does changing the legislation not potentially lead to greater
uncertainty for both OEMs and the consumer, and therefore put at risk the fact that there could
be incremental challenges for the industry with the transition and also lower returns on the
investments you've already made in your battery electric vehicles versus what might have
previously planned.
So, I don't know what your thoughts are on this. Is it a case that we do need to change it and that
changing it can lead to better economics for yourselves and your peers going forward? Or do
you actually think change could create risk? And then related to this, what actually do you believe
can be changed at this point? Obviously, 2025 is now very close, is the change you referenced
more for the 2026 and onwards time frame? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, George. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yes, thank you. Thank you for that question. I think I'll try to circumscribe the framework we are
working with. There is the three-step approach. 2025 is the first step with minus 15% on the CO2
fleet. Then in 2030 comes the next step with minus 55%. I think these two will be inevitable, and
that has been for the last eight years already. So that's not a new regulation, and all our strategygoes towards having products which are -- have such a high attractiveness that they are at the
same time compliant with the regulation.
So what we cannot do to create products which create a non-compliant situation, but the other
thing is also wrong to say the regulation is correct but you don't have products to comply with. So
they go hand in hand. And that's all what this game is about. And that is why we strictly are
against taking the competitive element out of this game to say, well, to provide you planning
security we make that regulation. You completely forget customers and products, and that is
counterproductive to any form of CO2 reduction. You can only do that with markets and not
against the markets.
Because in our industry, customers always have a choice that can always keep their old product.
That's unlike in the energy industry, they don't have a choice. Our customers always have a
choice, they just don't buy new cars they just keep their old products to the determent of CO2
reduction because that's a standstill in further development. I think that is very important to
understand. And BMW does not need planning security because we told all along that technology
openness is the key to profitability, and at the same time, to be compliant with the regulations.
Open markets and technology openness is the key to everything. And I cannot comment on what
others do, but if you don't follow that principle, you will have a very dire future. I'm absolutely sure
about this. You might be compliant, but you will have a very dire future.
And that's why I say, it's never too late to talk about regulations which only come into effect in
2035. You cannot talk about regulation which comes into effect in 2025, and that's not our point.
But I think there are better regulations which keep the competitiveness of the European industry.
And at the same time, do a better service to the environment. There is a solution which I
explained earlier, to have, first of all, a gradual evolution of CO2 reduction policies. And the
second is, to have a similar regime for the fuel industry at the same time. And I think there is a
better solution and it's never too late to speak up. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, George. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, UBS Securities at UBS. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS Securities `
Yes, good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Oliver, maybe the first one to you regarding
the situation in China. If I look at the Q1 bridge, and especially in light of the strong performance
of the high-end products, I have to assume that the BEVs are very mix dilutive. And just looking at
pricing in China, which keeps getting tougher and tougher for everybody, that seems to be the
very dilutive part in your bridge. And I'm just wondering, what's your strategy there? Do you want
to defend your market share at any price? Because you highlight that you could keep participating
in market growth or even grow faster than market, but it feels like you're doing that at a
significant margin dilution. If you can comment on that, please.
And the second question relates more to the coming quarters, and maybe that's one for Walter.
You highlight that this year the quarters will be more evenly distributed in terms of the auto EBIT
margin. Nonetheless, from prior years, we know that Q4 has a high skew in terms of cost. So can
you just talk about the key building blocks and how you see them moving forward from the firstquarter that make you so confident that we won't see a deteriorating margin trend in the coming
quarters? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Patrick. Thank you very much. Both parts of your question will be answered by Walter.
Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Board of Management, Finance `
Hello, Patrick. Well, with respect to China, eventually I have to reiterate two things. Number one,
'23 was not just exceptional for non-China, but also for China with respect to manufacturing cost,
in principle. But we also have in the quarter one, the 5 Series ramp down in China that happened
in non-China already in Q4, but in China in Q1. And the ramp-up of the 5 Series just happens more
or less after Chinese New Year. So, and we're just in the ramp-up phase.
With respect to that, we see still our net price effects positive, because ultimately it all belongs to
attractive products. And if we have a look for the BEV market in China, as we discussed last time
in New York, I think, we have to understand that 90% of the BEV sold in China is under
RMB300,000, which we had touched on from RMB300,000. And we said, yep, it's eventually an
effect on the 3 Series on the X3, but not above. So, and even if you have a look for the next 400
-- between RMB300,000 and RMB400,000, that's further 5%, right?
So, again, reiterating also what Oliver mentioned beforehand, we grew on our BEV sales in China
by 18%, whilst the total market, even with all these lower segments, grew by 15%. And not to
forget, our localized X5 is also contributing in China for China. So we are producing it in China. We
all have these positive local effects already in, not just in now, but also since we build it and
produce it. And the prices are really stable on the X5, you can check that out. So, with all that, we
are moving even in China ahead. So, in Q1, of course, you see a total sales down by 4%, but that
is mainly because of the 5 Series ramp-down and ramp-up. So, I'm not worried about that.
And with respect to the quarterly developments of our EBIT margins, yes, in principle, Q1 is
always a strong one. But if you have a look for 2022, you can see that we manage it always over
8% and within our strategic corridor. And that is what we guided and that was what we executed.
So, we deliver as we promise, as I say. Many thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Patrick. Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `Daniel Schwarz, Stifel Financial Corp. at Stifel.
Q - `Daniel Schwarz, Stifel Financial Corp. `
Thank you for taking my question. I had one question on the financial services. Could you say
what's driving the increase in penetration in the first quarter? I think you mentioned competitive
pressure in the past. Is that easing somewhat? Or are you pushing the business a bit more? And
with the higher leasing penetration, why did the elimination line not become more negative? And
what's your expectation for the next two quarters?
Then I had just one follow-up question on pricing, again. I understand the high base from Q1 last
year, the negative effect, as you said that's easing in coming quarters. But does it include theexpectation of improving pricing sequentially from Q1 to Q2 to Q4 this year? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you very much, Daniel. Walter, it's your turn.
A - `Walter Mertl, Board of Management, Finance `
Well, to you, financial services is really turning around. Last year, you'll remember that Q1 and Q2,
we shrank compared with the year '22. And since Q3, we are elevating Q3 '23. And we still do. So
that means we had 422,000 new contracts, a growth by 21.5%. And that is not just new car
business, but also used car business for lease as well as finance. And both new as well as used
grew by between 20% and 22%. And with that, we organized good margins for the future with it.
And the total new contract volume was at the level of EUR15.6 billion. Mainly Europe and the U.S.,
but even China grew compared with previous year Q1 in the financial services business. So, that is
quite positive.
On the elimination, of course, with new business, you have in the eliminations a negative effect.
But this is not the only one hitting the elimination segment. We also have to convert more or less
all the interest subsidies we have, especially in the U.S., with the IRA topics. And that, of course, if
you have an automobile, you have the positive effect in the consolidation. So, I really also assume
that interest rate over the course of the year, especially in the second half year, will slightly be
reduced. And then, of course, the support can be reduced, too. And then the math is ending up
in the way you expect it.
So, and I think I have to reiterate also our pricing level with respect to the sequentials. We
mentioned in our guidance that we are leveling it on the same average like previous year, which is
roughly EUR52,000 in average, plus/minus FX. And that's the level we presented in Q1. And that
will be more or less the same level in Q2. So we assume rather keeping the average of previous
year's level, rather than having ups and downs over the course of this year.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Walter. And thank you very much, Daniel, for your question. I think we have
two more questions, yes.
Operator
The next question is from `Horst Schneider, Bank of America at Bank of America. Please unmute your line.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Bank of America `
Yes, good morning. I hope you can hear me. I have got two questions left, please. The number
one that I have is, I mean, first of all, big compliment to U.S. BMW on production and process. I
think you're the only German carmaker not affected by supply shortages. And while that is a
compliment and positive, of course, I have got in mind that when the other carmakers basically
get rid of their shortages, for example, if Audi can sell again six and eight-cylinder engine
vehicles, Mercedes gets rid of the 48-volt shortage, do you envisage a situation basically where
there could be some supply pressure in the market, that we get an imbalance of supply and
demand? Or how do you think about it that all your competitors talk about it to ramp up volumes
to a stronger extent when they get rid of their shortages? That's number one.
The number two question that I have is a more structural one for Oliver. It's a question that I ask
myself constantly and also ask myself when I was visiting the Beijing Auto Show. We see there area lot of PHEVs with a range of 200, 250 kilometers. Li Auto with a special concept in its extended
range concept. Why are the German carmakers not doing that, respectively? Why is BMW not
doing that, just extending the PHEV range? because my view is on BEVs, it's difficult really to, I
don't know, to stand out. And on PHEVs, with a combustion engine still in, I think it would be much
better offer, or not, for the German carmakers and BMW? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, thank you very much, Horst. Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
I don't know what to respond to your first question. We will keep our supply chains intact and we
lived for the last 100 years in a competitive environment. I cannot give you an answer to that. I
don't know what to answer to that. We will keep our supply chains intact. And as we said before,
we have a growth ambition for this year. You see in the first quarter that the strategy works in
there. And if we can gain market share with supply chain interruptions at the competitor side, we
will continue our path.
The second one is, BMW Group is committed to technology openness and that, of course,
includes PHEVs. And I think the range of PHEVs, this is a very individual discussion. What is right?
This is a matter of cost effectiveness. There is a balance between when do you step into a BEV
with a much larger battery. I think there is a limit to the range where it makes sense to offer
PHEVs. And our PHEVs with currently around 100 kilometers range, I think, are at the perfect point
where the customer says this is what I would like to pay for. Never forget that the larger the range
is, the larger the battery gets. And to have a very large battery, plus a combustion engine in
there, there is a limit to the financial logic in that.
But on the PHEV side, we have that offering. They are, by the way, very stable. Over the past
year, they always linger about 200,000 units, and especially in the X5. The X5 PHEV is always
sold out. So we are quite happy with our offering in that segment. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Horst. Last question, please.
Operator
The last question is from `Henning Cosman, Barclays Capital at Barclays Capital. (Operator Instruction)
Q - `Henning Cosman, Barclays Capital `
Yeah, thank you very much for taking my question as well. I appreciate the comments on pricing. I
think we understood most of the building blocks volume getting a little bit better in the course of
the year. Sequentially, mix also affects commodities staying positive. So, I wanted to perhaps ask
you on the other cost changes sequentially. So compared to Q1 2024, do manufacturing costs
and remarketing gains, does that get less negative in the course of the year? And does that help
in terms of sequential margin development perhaps into the upper half of the full year range?
And then if I can just ask you point blank, if you would be prepared at this point to indicate if you
hope to be in the upper half or if you think you could be in the lower half of the full year
automotive EBIT margin range? Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified SpeakerGood, thank you very much. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Board of Management, Finance `
Hello, Henning. So of course on the manufacturing cost side, if you compare quarter-by-quarter
even versus '23 quarter one, there was the big one-off already in Q1 versus Q2 within 2023. So
the run over, the beneficence of the lower cost manufacturing cost from 2022 rather was all in Q1.
And since Q2 '23, we are rather running on this inflated manufacturing cost. So that means in
comparison if we compare Q2 this year with Q2 next year, the manufacturing cost will be more or
less gone.
But with respect to remarketing profits, that is still coming down. Now it's just a question we
recognized in '23 already a deterioration of the profits quarter-on-quarter, as we mentioned. And
this is going alongside. So with respect to the difference between Q2 and Q2 previous year, it's
just a question how fast it could deteriorate this year. So we have our understanding and
expectations, but I would assume that this hit shouldn't be that big anymore as it was already in
Q1 because we definitely had an extra supply of new car vehicles from Q2 last year onwards with
all these effects which lasted already in the course of last year Q2, Q3, Q4 still moving on. So
from that perspective I think that was the leverage.
And with respect to the total impact on price mix and volume, we mentioned that this should be
slightly positive. Never forget that the 5 Series ramp-up is just now even in China, as I mentioned,
just since mid-February moving on. And our GKL, our upper segment class, also compared with
the first half year last year is leveling up. So all that in combination makes me positive that we are
in the quarter always between this range of 8 to 10 rather consistently and constantly than we
had last year, because Q1 '23 was exceptional. Many thanks.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Many thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the telephone conference.
Thank you for joining us. All the best to you. Bye, bye. And Servus from Munich.