Q1 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Francesca
DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President. Please go ahead, ma'am.
`Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Good morning, and welcome to Pfizer's earnings call. I'm `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief Investor
Relations Officer. On behalf of the Pfizer team, thank you for joining us. This call is being made
available via audio webcast at pfizer.com. Earlier this morning, we released our results for the first
quarter of 2024 via a press release that is available on our website at pfizer.com.
I'm joined today by Dr. `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and CEO; and `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO. Albert
and Dave have some prepared remarks and we will then open the call for questions. Joining for
the Q&A session, we will also have Dr. `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President, EVP and Chief Oncology Officer; Alexandre
de Germay, EVP and Chief International Commercial Officer; Dr. `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Pfizer Research and Development, Chief ScientificOfficer and President of R&D; `Doug Lankler, General Counsel, Executive Vice President, EVP and General Counsel; and `Aamir Malik, US Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President, EVP and
Chief US Commercial Officer.
Before we get started, I want to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements
and discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. I encourage you to read the disclaimers in
our slide presentation, the press release we issued this morning, and our disclosures in our SEC
filings, which are all available on the IR website on pfizer.com. Forward-looking statements on the
call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties, speak only as of the call's original date, and
we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Francesca. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call. In the first quarter,
we had a solid start to the year and we are cautiously optimistic about what we will achieve in
2024. I am pleased and appreciative of how our Pfizer colleagues are executing with discipline as
they focus on the patients and others we serve. This helped us deliver a strong performance
during the quarter in our non-COVID product portfolio, drive progress toward our oncology
leadership, advance our pipeline, and continue to strengthen our business.
Today, we will discuss highlights from the quarter and provide updates about how we Are
continuing to make progress with the five strategic priorities we shared with you at the start of
the year. We are proud of the positive impact we achieve around the world with our deep
capabilities and global scale. Through the first 3 months of the year, we reached more than 119
million patients with our medicines and vaccines. We will continue to build on Pfizer's 175-year
history of driving medical and pharmaceutical breakthroughs as we maximize the opportunities in
front of us.
Our confidence in the year ahead comes from our focus on executing the strategic priorities that
we believe will deliver operational, commercial, and financial success across our business. The
priorities are: Achieve world-class oncology leadership. Deliver the next wave of pipeline
innovation. Maximize performance of our new products. Expand margins by realigning our cost
base. And Allocate capital to enhance shareholder value.
In the first quarter, we made notable progress with each one, and I will share some highlights.
Many of you joined us at our Oncology Innovation Day in February, and I hope you found it to be a
valuable opportunity to see how we are well positioned to achieve world-class oncology
leadership. We are pleased with the excellence we have been able to achieve in both integration
and commercial execution. With a strong mix of Pfizer and Seagen colleagues in the newly
combined team, we believe we have one of the most experienced and talented groups of
oncology leaders in the industry. We're also already seeing the benefit of strong commercial
execution with our newly cross-trained sales and field medical teams.
In the first quarter of 2024, our oncology revenues grew 19% operationally over the same quarter
a year ago, driven in part by the acquisition of the four in-line products from legacy Seagen, and
in particular, the strong ongoing launch of Padcev in front-line locally advanced metastatic
urothelial cancer regardless of cisplatin eligibility, following FDA approval based on the
groundbreaking EV-302 data. We have an increased demand for Xtandi, which continues to be a
backbone therapy across the prostate cancer treatment continuum. And we have continued
growth from Lorbrena, which could emerge as the potential first-line standard of care in ALK-
positive metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer.Earlier this week, we also announced the full FDA approval of Tivdak to treat recurrent or
metastatic cervical cancer. Tivdak is the first antibody-drug conjugate to have positive overall
survival data for patients with previously treated recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer.
Going forward, we are guided by a strategy focusing on our greatest opportunities to make a
difference for patients with cancer. With the power of our deep expertise, broad and diverse
portfolio, and global scale, we are confident we are well on our way toward our 2030 goals of
doubling the number of patients treated with our innovative cancer medicines; increasing the
number of blockbuster medicines in our portfolio from 5 today to 8 or more; and, driving an
anticipated tenfold increase in the proportion of revenue from biologics. This is important
because it brings the potential to provide more durable revenue based on several factors,
including Inflation Reduction Act considerations and the greater challenges of copying complex
biologics. We will look forward to sharing continued updates with you on our progress in
accelerating oncology breakthroughs.
Now, I'll turn to our progress with delivering the next wave of pipeline innovation. In Oncology
during the quarter, we had three pivotal Phase 3 study starts, including the first Phase 3 trial for
our selective CDK4 inhibitor, atirmociclib, our integrin-beta-6-directed ADC, sigvotatug vedotin,
SV; and the fourth Phase 3 trial for Elrexfio in multiple myeloma. At the upcoming American
Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting, we will present data spanning each of our tumor
areas of focus and core scientific modalities, including new five-year progression-free survival
data for Lorbrena, Phase 3 data for Adcetris in diffuse large B cell lymphoma, and additional
developments from across our deep and diverse pipeline.
We are also driving continued execution beyond oncology with a sharpened focus on key value
drivers expected to build potential multi-billion-dollar product portfolios. Through the first quarter,
we are on track with delivering on our anticipated milestones and have important updates in both
our growing respiratory and hematology portfolios.
With Abrysvo, we believe we have the opportunity to further expand what is currently the
broadest approved range of patients for the RSV vaccine, including adults 60 years and older and
infants from birth to six months via maternal immunization. We recently reported positive results
from the Phase 3 MONeT trial evaluating Abrysvo in adults aged 18 to 59 at increased risk for RSV
disease. The trial met its primary endpoints and we intend to submit these data to regulatory
agencies. We believe Abrysvo has the potential to become the first and only RSV vaccine for
adults 18 years and older.
Hematology is another priority area. With the progress of recent and near-term milestones, we
are confident that we could establish a potential multi-billion-dollar product portfolio across
hemophilia and sickle cell disease.
We recently received the first US FDA gene therapy approval for Pfizer with FDA approval for
Beqvez, a one-time gene therapy for adults with hemophilia B. This program builds upon our
growing presence in hemophilia. We expect an FDA decision before year end for marstacimab,
which has the potential to become the first once-weekly subcutaneous treatment in the
hemophilia B market; and the first treatment delivered as a flat dose for both hemophilia A and
hemophilia B.
Moving to sickle cell, we recently started the Phase 3 study of osivelotor, our potentially best-in-
class next-generation hemoglobin S polymerization inhibitor. We are committed to addressing the
underserved needs of the sickle cell disease community, and we are leveraging our capabilities
for potential breakthroughs for these patients.Now, I'll turn to our strategic priority of maximizing performance of our new products. While it may
take a year to realize the full benefit of the changes we put in place, as we speak, to bring a
more efficient structure to our commercial operations, we are pleased by the impact we are
already seeing from our sharpened focus and Pfizer colleagues embracing our high-performance
culture.
Earlier, I mentioned the momentum with our oncology products. Our Pfizer US Commercial and
Pfizer International Commercial organizations are also moving ahead in driving progress and
growth in their respective markets. We have several potential key growth drivers for this year and
into year 2025.
With Abrysvo, we are very pleased with the positive data in the 18 to 59 age group that
differentiates our product and we are encouraged by our opportunities to continue increasing
overall RSV market growth and market share.
Another example is our enthusiasm for the potential of Nurtec to help the more than 1 billion
people living with migraine worldwide. With oral CGRP penetration leaving room for potential
significant growth, we will continue to focus on reducing access barriers for healthcare
professionals and patients, as well as on education through direct-to-consumer marketing.
With Oxbryta, we will continue to educate healthcare professionals and patients on the
importance of proactively treating the underlying cause of sickle cell disease by reframing
treatment goals to chronic and proactive treatment.
Velsipity is coming off its annual launch, and we are focused on ensuring patient access as a first-
line advanced therapy oral option for moderate to severe Ulcerative Colitis.
And, I will mention Litfulo. We will work toward continuing to accelerate the consideration of
advanced systemic treatments for appropriate patients with alopecia areata and further unlock
access to Litfulo. Additionally, we continue to protect and grow our core brands and key
blockbusters, including PREVNAR, Vyndaqel, and Eliquis.
In a moment, Dave will provide updates about how we are also making progress with two other
strategic priorities, expanding margins by realigning our cost base, and allocating capital to
enhance shareholder value. When we consider what we achieved in the first quarter, along with
our continued progress in executing our five strategic priorities, we are cautiously optimistic
about the year ahead. We are continuing to focus on commercial execution, protecting and
growing our products, and driving strong starts with new commercial launches.
With the progress we are making in advancing our cost-realignment program, as well as our
confidence in the underlying strength of our business and our continued execution, we have
raised our outlook for 2024 Adjusted Earnings Per Share by $0.10. We have confidence in our
Company. With some of the most experienced and talented colleagues in the industry, we have
demonstrated many times before that we are very good at execution and we expect to continue
delivering life-changing medicines for hundreds of millions of patients globally and meaningful
value for our shareholders.
Now, I will turn it over to Dave to discuss the financial performance during the quarter as well as
our progress in strengthening our business and enhancing shareholder value. Dave?
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert, and good morning, everyone. As we continue to navigate a challenging post-protecting and growing our core brands while investing in building a more effective organization.
Our relentless focus on execution is positioning Pfizer to improve shareholder returns. This
morning, I will briefly review the highlights of our first quarter results; then I'll touch on our capital
allocation priorities. I'll wrap up by outlining our 2024 financial guidance, as well as our key
priorities for the remainder of this year.
Turning to the first quarter, let me walk down the P&L. Total Company revenues for the quarter
were $14.9 billion, reflecting an operational decline of $3.5 billion or 19% vs last year. As you know,
our business continues to be negatively impacted by a declining COVID environment on a global
basis. To that end, we expect our COVID products will continue to have an outsized effect on
both our top-line and our bottom-line throughout this year. However, I do want to point out that
we expect our COVID products will continue to be contributors to revenues and cash flows for
the foreseeable future.
Strong commercial execution across the enterprise drove 11% operational revenue growth in the
quarter when you exclude Comirnaty and PAXLOVID. Performance was positively impacted by our
renewed focus on key products and markets; refined allocation of commercial field resources
globally; and further alignment of marketing resources into key priority areas. Contributing to this
performance were our acquired products from Seagen, alongside in-line products such as
Vyndaqel, Eliquis, and Abrysvo. Dampening our growth in the quarter was the expected lower
global demand for Ibrance, and Sulperazon, driven largely by lower demand in China in the first
quarter of 2024 vs last year.
Adjusted Gross Margin for the first quarter improved by 530 basis points to 79.6% versus Q1 of
last year. This improvement was driven by three factors: First, where lower sales volume of
Comirnaty resulted in favorable sales mix; Second, in the quarter we recorded a product return
adjustment for PAXLOVID associated with our US Government contract, and I'll touch upon in a
moment; and finally, we executed strong cost management across our manufacturing network.
Improvements in our gross margin rate will continue to be an important focus for the Company
going forward.
Total Adjusted operating expenses increased modestly by 1% to $5.9 billion compared to Q1 of
last year, despite adding expenses associated with the acquired Seagen business. This
disciplined cost control puts us squarely on track to delivering on our $4 billion net cost savings
commitment by the end of the year. Adjusted SI&A expenses increased 3% operationally in the
quarter driven primarily by an increase in marketing and promotional expenses for recently
acquired and launched products, partially offset by a decrease in expenses for both PAXLOVID
and Comirnaty.
Consistent with our strategy, we are prioritizing our R&D spending to enhance overall returns
while supporting growth from our pipeline. For the quarter, adjusted R&D Expenses were $2.5
billion, a decrease of 1% operationally versus LY. The slight decline was driven primarily by lower
spending resulting from our cost realignment program and lower spending on certain vaccine
programs, largely offset by increased investments mainly to develop certain assets acquired from
Seagen.
Q1 Reported diluted earnings per share were $0.55. Our adjusted diluted EPS was $0.82 which
exceeded our expectations due to favorable gross margin performance as well as strong cost
management across the enterprise. As I stated earlier, during the quarter we recorded a
favorable product return adjustment associated with our US Government contract for PAXLOVID.
Recall that during Q4 of last year, we estimated that the US Government credit for PAXLOVID
was $3.5 billion. Earlier this year, the US Government announced that the EUA-labeled productwas no longer authorized for emergency use and the agreed-upon return period had now
expired. Given those facts, we could now finalize the total value of the US Government credit.
This resulted in a favorable adjustment to revenues of $771 million for PAXLOVID and contributed
$0.11 to the Company's earnings per share.
Now let me quickly touch upon our capital allocation strategy, which is designed to enhance long-
term shareholder value. Our strategy consists of maintaining and growing our dividend over time;
reinvesting in our business at an appropriate level of financial return; and making value-enhancing
share repurchases after de-levering our balance sheet.
During the first quarter, we returned $2.4 billion to shareholders via our quarterly dividend,
invested $2.5 billion in internal R&D, and as expected, completed business development activity
was minimal in the quarter. We are committed to de-levering our capital structure with a gross
leverage target of 3.25 times, which we expect to achieve over time. In support of that goal,
during the quarter, we paid down approximately $1.25 billion in maturing debt and in May, we will
pay down another $1 billion of outstanding notes. And, importantly during the quarter, we began
to monetize our Haleon stake through an initial sale of $3.5 billion which reduced our equity
position in the Company from 32% to approximately 23%.
Looking ahead to the next couple of quarters, I'd like to point out that we expect operating cash
flows to be significantly below typical levels, largely due to the timing of certain payments.
Despite this near-term pressure, clearly, our objective is to return to a more balanced capital
allocation strategy over time.
Now, let me spend a few minutes on our outlook for the remainder of the year. As we entered
2024, the Company was highly focused on delivering on its financial commitments and our
performance in Q1 demonstrates that we are off to a solid start. With that objective in mind, and
the fact that it's still early in the year, we are modestly updating the earnings outlook for this year.
We are raising our full year adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance range by $0.10 to a new
range of $2.15 to $2.35. Looking ahead, this increase takes into consideration both our improving
line of sight to our cost savings target, and continued strength in our underlying business. As a
reminder, our EPS guidance also includes an anticipated $0.40 of earnings dilution from the
Seagen acquisition, largely due to the financing costs.
While the PAXLOVID revenue return adjustment moves us to the upper end of our revenue
guidance range, our top-line revenue expectations remain unchanged for the year. We continue
to expect revenues in the range of $58.5 billion to $61.5 billion. In addition, even though
Comirnaty revenues continue to perform consistent with our plan, it is important to remember
that we expect approximately 90% of our sales to occur in the second half of the year, mostly in
Q4 given the seasonal nature of this product.
Lastly, we remain on track to deliver at least $4 billion of net savings from our cost-realignment
program by the end of the year. Improving our cost base will put us on strong footing towards
margin expansion and improved financial returns moving forward. As you know, over the past two
years, the Company has made significant investments to drive growth in the back half of the
decade. And we remain encouraged by the long-term growth outlook for Pfizer. 2024 is clearly a
year of focus (technical difficulty) The foundation we establish this year sets the stage to deliver
on our commitment to enhance shareholder value both this year and through the end of the
decade.
And with that, I'd like to turn it back over to Albert as we begin our Q&A session.`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David. Now, let's start the Q&A session. Operator, please assemble the queue.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I had a question for you on your RSV vaccine sales. Just curious
what drove the downtick versus the fourth quarter. It looks like GSK had a similar downtick. And
then how do you think about potential competition coming into the market for vaccines and
treatments? Does that impact your future growth projections for the franchise? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I think Aamir, that's a question for you. Then maybe Alexandre also you can add because now we
started already to register and approve the product in international markets. Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, US Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Louise, thanks for the question. So, it very much appears like the RSV vaccination market is
following a seasonal trend. So you expect the dynamics in Q4 versus Q1 to be different. In Q1,
what we saw for the market is for older adults, it certainly attenuated over the course of the
quarter. So there was a peak in the second week of January and then a steady week-by-week
decline since then.
Now in terms of the dynamics for our business and Abrysvo, our performance was in line with
what we expected. We think this will follow a seasonal trend. And we think we're very well-
positioned for the fall season for several reasons. One is, we're progressing our retail
contracting. Second is, we have a real strength in the non-retail channel. You referred to GSK,
they reported their revenues. When you look at the mix of US revenues as reported, it's about a
60-40 mix. Our retail share is lower than that, but our non-retail share is much higher and that
portion of our business really doubled between Q4 and Q1 from about 9% to 17%. And I think that
just speaks to our strength in doctors' offices and the relationships we have with organized
customers.
And I'll also note that later this year, if approved, we will have a new presentation of active vial,
which demonstrates ease of administration, and also our clinical data, which Albert referred to in
his remarks for label expansion for Abrysvo for 18 to 59-year-olds as well as -- that are at-risk, as
well as durable efficacy through two seasons. I think the combination of these commercial efforts
as well as potential label expansion really position us well for a fall season.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aamir. Now, Alexandre?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `So, Louise, thanks for the questions. On the international front, we actually made great progress
on the Abrysvo. As you know, we got approval in the second half of 2023 in Europe and in the UK.
And since then, we've been working with the health authority and the expert to provide medical
evidence and healthcare system benefit associated with the protection against lower respiratory
tract infections associated with RSV and through immunizations of maternal or through the
immunization of all the other.
So, we're making good progress. And actually, we have already received the recommendation in
the UK, in Australia, in Norway, and we are progressing and waiting some recommendation from
the Vaccine Technical Committee in many other European markets. We also had good progress
from a regulatory standpoint because it was a milestone with the approval of older adults in MI,
during the maternity immunization in Japan in the first quarter as well as Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
So overall, they don't yet translate into financials because it takes time to get to the approval, to
get to VTC, and to get funding for those campaign, but we see significant opportunity that we
can address unmet medical need in the international. Just to give you one example, in Europe,
for instance, half of the hospitalizations due to respiratory tract infection in the first year of life
were caused by RSV. So, there is definitely a great opportunity and the majority of those
hospitalization occur for the first three months of age. And as you know, Abrysvo is the only
maternal vaccine that help protect infants from a lower respiratory tract infection caused by RSV
immunization from birth to a six months. So, we see a great opportunity.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alexandre. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley. with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley. `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. Maybe just a two-part for me. Just wondering if you can
comment at all about any potential impact in 2025 from the Part-D redesign. We've heard a
couple of other companies already comment here. And then one on the pipeline. Can you give us
any update on danuglipron and your plans more broadly in obesity? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you. Clearly, danuglipron is in the invest -- let me take that one so to clear the way. It's
not news. We don't have news on danuglipron. Everything is as we had discussed before. So, we
are waiting around mid-year to get the totality of the data that relates to the once-a-day
formulation. And then based on the data and everything else, we will make decisions for future
plans. So, we'll speak about them when we have more to say.
However, now let's go to Aamir about the Part-D redesign in 2025, what you expect then?
A - `Aamir Malik, US Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. Terence, thanks for the question. And as you can imagine, there's many moving parts to
Part-D redesign. I think relevant to our business, I think it's important to first note that as part of
what already went into place with the redesign, there is no cost sharing imposed on vaccines. So,
that given our significant vaccines portfolio is a positive. And then obviously, over the course of'24 and '25, there's other dynamics with out-of-pocket cost caps, which create better access for
patients and that is helpful to volumes, and we're starting to see that in '24 in some parts of our
business, including on Vynda.
And then there is things to come, including a change in that cap as well as patient smoothing. So,
we'll see how that plays out. And obviously, there's also changes in how costs are shared
between plans, manufacturers, government, and patients. So how all of that gets implemented,
we're tracking that very closely. We're not offering any specific guidance in terms of direct dollar
impact on our business in 2025 because there is still a lot to come on this. And when we are
ready to do that, we certainly will.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aamir. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Akash Tewari, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Your line is open.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hey, thanks so much. On tafamidis, really strong quarter, but I wanted to ask on patent life. Given
we've seen the EU Patent Office strike down multiple invalidity oppositions. And on the US side, it
looks like defendants are conceding infringement. How should we think about IP for this product?
Why shouldn't this stay patent fit-out to 2035?
And then number two, really strong quarter for PADCEV and you do have the pending TIVDAK
launch in first-line cervical. Is there any possibility we could see Seagen become accretive to Pfizer
earnings by next year? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a very good question. Why don't we go first to you, Dave, to speak a little bit about, clearly
Seagen is doing very well, if you expect that can become accretive earlier. Also, I would like to
hear some comments from Chris about the progress of the Seagen portfolio and then Doug can
comment on the IP situation or legal council. So, Dave.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
So, yes, so just maybe on Seagen from a financial perspective, obviously, clearly a very solid
quarter and a very solid start to the year. I think we're not changing our expectations both short-
term and long-term for Seagen, but I think we're cautiously optimistic as we look forward. So,
probably nothing to update financially other than our continued commitment to the financial
metrics that we've already established. And again, we're probably cautiously optimistic on the
trends that we're seeing underlying that business at this point in time.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Do you want to make some comments also, Chris, about the performance of the Seagen
business?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. I think just to add to what Dave has said, you've -- it's early days for PADCEV as we pointedyear-on-year pro forma growth. It's early, but we're very pleased that we've got NCCN Guidelines
Category 1. We've got the New England Journal publication. We've got uptake in both academic
and community settings. In fact, 70% of the current accounts on the community and we're looking
forward now because I think we're well set for the future in the muscle-invasive bladder cancer
setting and those two studies that will read out later in 2025, '26, and '27.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Chris. Doug, what about the situation with the IP disputes?
A - `Doug Lankler, General Counsel, Executive Vice President `
Yes. VYNDAQEL and VYNDAMAX currently has US patent exclusive -- exclusivity, excuse me,
through the end of this year, but we have a patent -- pending patent term extension, which would
take it out to December of 2028, and we may be filing additional requests for patent term
extensions while that is pending. In major European markets, our patents expire in November of
2026. And in Japan, the patent expires in 2026, but there's regulatory exclusivity through March
of 2029 for Cardiomyopathy.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Doug. And operator, let's move to the next question. Thank you, Akash.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets. with BMO Capital Markets. Your line
is open.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets. `
Hi guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. I want to touch on gross margin. Obviously, a
nice improvement in this quarter and I believe back in December, you had said for the full year
you'd be around 70%. Do you expect that we could actually see a better gross margin for the full
year given kind of the benefit we've seen or are there some other puts and takes that we should
be aware of?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. So, this is Dave. We're always looking to improve our performance from both a gross margin
and operating performance perspective. So I'll say we'll continue to focus on that. Obviously, as
you know, there is three things that improved our gross margin rate in the quarter. Some of those
are temporal, some of those are more permanent. I think what is encouraging within our gross
margin performance is the fact that our cost control element across our manufacturing platform
was really strong. We expect that to be -- continue to be a focus.
Keep in mind that our Comirnaty volume is very back-half weighted. Comirnaty, as you know,
carries -- because of our profit share, carries a very low gross margin rate. So, that mix will
reverse itself in the back half of the year, compressing and putting pressure on our gross margin
rate. So, you should expect that dynamic to occur as that product plays itself out through 2024.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. All right. Let's go to the next question, please.Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Guggenheim Partners with Guggenheim Securities. Your line is
open.
Q - `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Guggenheim Partners `
Great. Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the quarter. The two products I
want to just kind of touch on in terms of on the sort of newer growth drivers. So, one is Nurtec,
which came in a little bit lighter than we expected. Obviously, the first quarter there tends to be
impacted a lot by gross-to-net. So, I'm just trying to understand if you can just give a little more
details on what the dynamics were in the quarter and any sort of change to your sort of
expectation on that product's outlook.
And then the second one is on the myeloma side, Abrysvo, just noticed in your slide
presentation, that used to be listed under the sort of key growth drivers in prior quarters. This
year on Slide 9 when you show your key growth drivers, it's no longer listed there. So, I'm just
curious about, it looks like it was an intentional change. I'm just curious sort of what drove the
decision to remove that from the group of key growth drivers.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Vamil. Aamir, Nurtec; and then, Chris, myeloma?
A - `Aamir Malik, US Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thanks for the question, Vamil. So, I'm happy to talk a little bit about Nurtec. We'd like to
accelerate the momentum of Nurtec and we're taking several steps to do that. For the quarter
itself, what we're encouraged by is the demand and the volumes that we saw. And then on the
flip side, as you already alluded to, the performance in the quarter was impacted by gross-to-net.
So, on demand, a few points to just keep in mind. Nurtec continued its market leadership within
the class with a 49% TRX share and that was up 28% from Q1 of last year. Secondly, NBRx share,
which we keep a very close eye on, that volume as a whole hit its high point since we closed the
Biohaven acquisition at the end of '22. So, that was up versus last year, but also importantly, up
versus Q4 of '23. And there were about 11,000 new Nurtec writers in Q1 and this is 90% of all the
new writers within the oral CGRP class. So, there's a lot about the volume and the demand that
we're encouraged by.
Now on gross-to-net, there were three issues this quarter. One is, you typically tend to see this
dynamic in the first quarter of every year. We saw that last year too, just given the benefit design
dynamics. Secondly, we did have some payer mix issues between government and commercial
channels this quarter. And then finally, there was an unfavorable one-time prior period adjustment
to our GTNs in Q1.
To your question about the rest of the year, for Nurtec, we expect continued growth. We've
talked about the fact that the fundamentals in terms of untreated patients and undertreated
patients remain strong. We also think that some of the gross-to-net that I described is going to
be temporal and will slowly abate over the course of the rest of the year. And then we have
made a number of changes in our commercial execution in terms of what we're doing with
patient engagement and focusing our field force resources on physician awareness in a different
way and also working to reduce friction for patient access. So overall, we do expect continued
growth from Nurtec in the balance of '24.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Chris, about Abrysvo?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
And thank you, Albert. So the reason Albert didn't list Abrysvo as a major growth driver, just to
remind, so he pointed out Lorbrena, Xtandi, and Padcev as the immediate biggest growth drivers
for oncology, but we're absolutely confident that Abrysvo will become over the next couple of
months and years, a major driver for oncology.
Just a reminder, we've seen very promissive -- very promising efficacy data in highly refractory
patient populations with deep and durable responses and we reported the longest reported
median progressive-free survival in the recurrent relapsed refractory setting of 17.2 months. So, of
course, recognizing there is no definitive conclusion because there's no head-to-head studies.
We're currently encouraged by what we've seen with the uptake and with the bulk of new patient
starts as we are -- as we have planned and we remain very optimistic for the future from the
current indication as well as from the future indications.
And a reminder that we have four ongoing registrational studies. In the next 12 months, the first
Phase 3 study will read out multiple -- and the MM5 study. We've also recently received J-code
for access and we smoothened reimbursement process and continue to gain favorable positions
on various pathways -- and in some, the most favorable pathways. We are looking forward to
update you very soon on more things for Abrysvo.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Maybe Alexandre, do you have anything to add about the product in
international markets?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. On Abrysvo, we actually have -- is we're progressing very nicely because as you know, we
got approval in Europe in December of 2023 and in the UK in January and in Japan in March
2024. So, we are now moving into reimbursements and we've got early access considering the
clinical profile -- exceptional clinical profile of the product. So, that's why we got in some market
early access and that's why we started doing sales in the first quarter. But we are very satisfied by
that we could close gap -- the time-to-market gap versus competitor. And in some cases, like in
Japan, we actually indeed became first-in-class approved. So, that we are moving into
registration -- reimbursement discussion, and introduction of the product later in the year.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Overall, in most international markets, there is a gap between the approval and the access
grant. But because of the profile of the product, we saw early access, which is basically
something that happens on an exceptional base if the product is unique, but some countries
before they approve the price, they are allowing you to have access with your own price and then
they may get us. So, that is a very good signs for this product. We are really feeling very
embolished when we see the clinical profile and opinions of the Key Opinion Leaders.
Thank you. Let's move now to the next question, please.
OperatorWe'll take our next question from Dave Risinger with Leerink Partners. Your line is open.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Yes. Thanks very much. So, how many questions am I allowed to ask?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
You, Dave, you don't have a limit.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Very kind of you, Albert. Okay. So, I have -- I'll keep it to two. So, first, regarding the Company's
cost structure, I'm just trying to get a sense of whether it bottomed out in the first quarter or if
there are additional cost reductions ahead after March 30th, such that the cost structure of the
Company is coming down after the first quarter.
And then second, with respect to Vyndaqel, I appreciate the comments in response to the
question earlier, but I'm just trying to get a little bit better understanding of how to think about it.
So, there was a comment about patent term extension potentially applying beyond December of
'28. So, if Pfizer is successful, what would the date be instead of December '28 for the US? And
then for the EU, the comment was November of '26, but I've heard that there was a positive EU
patent development and I'm trying to understand what that would extend the EU to. Thanks so
much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Dave. So, `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, please, you take the cost structure.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. First, as you well know, rightsizing our cost structure is incredibly important for us from -- as
we think forward for margin expansion and improving our financial returns. As we look through Q1
and through the balance of the year, keep in mind, the cost of changes that we've made in the
US are largely complete. Obviously, in ex-US, some of those changes lag. So, you will see
changes in the cost structure ex-US for the balance of the year.
Those are probably not quite as large as we look forward compared to what has already
happened at this point. But I would just say that this will be a constant focus for us as we think
about cost and margin enhancements going forward. This is -- this is a -- now we're on a continual
cycle of thinking about how we invest and what is the appropriate cost structure in support of our
revenue objectives for this business going forward.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. And Doug, can you please clarify a few things about Vyndaqel to David
Risinger's question?
A - `Doug Lankler, General Counsel, Executive Vice President `
Sure. Just to be clear, Dave, we shouldn't think beyond December 2028 on VYNDAQEL and
VYNDAMAX. So, we've got a patent term extension that is filed and is pending. And all I was
saying was that, in addition to that patent term extension, which would take it out to December
2028 that we filed and is pending, we may file additional patent term extensions again thoughA - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for clarifying, Doug. Okay. Now let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS `
Hi, guys. `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Thanks for taking my questions. One on the ACIP meeting
coming up and just a clarification on the guide, if I may. So, on ACIP in June, what's your
expectations on the recommendation for the 50 to 59 population? Could this be a shared clinical
decision like the 60-plus or do you think this is going to be risk-based? Is there any chance you
can get the 18 to 59 data on the agenda for this meeting?
And just on the guide, a clarification here on the credit for the quarter because you've kept your
$3 billion guide for PAX. I appreciate the comment you're now going to be at the upper end of
guide, but on PAX, do you expect to have $770 million less PAX sales than you imagined at the
start of the year, given that you updated your EPS guide or was this expected?
Thanks.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Well, maybe I'll take that first. From a guide perspective, I would not -- we obviously did not
expect this final adjustment. It was an estimate that we did at the end of the year. We're now
finalizing the adjustment based on the returns that we've seen and it's now complete. I would say
that as we look forward for the full year, both for PAXLOVID and for the full year of all of our
products, we're cautiously optimistic about where we are. I think PAXLOVID started off from a
very solid utilization and keep in mind, that product will trend consistent with infection rates across
the globe. And we're still cautiously optimistic that we will achieve our objective and we do not
expect anything less than our original expectation at this point in time though.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David. And Mikael, on the ACIP meetings and the June-October recommendations
well.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Pfizer Research and Development
Yes. First, to punctuate, we're good to hear your interest in our RSV vaccine. We have a lot of
positive and informative datasets coming, 18 to 59, we have already been out sharing a robust
outcome for that, and filing is imminent to happen in US FDA. We also have data coming on
second season, full second season and data so far that have been available show robust and
probably best-in-class profile for us. And you heard Aamir mention, we also have new delivery
formats. So, there is a lot of positive things happening to further strengthen Abrysvo.
For a formal decision on a recommendation, ACIP normally wait until the product is FDA-
approved. We don't know exactly when FDA will potentially approve. We think clearly given this
unique age range that it can happen to be meaningful for the fall, but that needs to be, of course
pending FDA's views. But we will certainly be very open to share data from several of these new
important datasets that could help ACIP to understand the planning of the various RSV products.And we think that would be very helpful for ACIP as Abrysvo dataset are robust and in some
sense, unique in a positive way. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
In general, a couple of comments for both of these questions. On the ACIP, we always don't
speak for ACIP. So, it's not appropriate. So, ACIP will do what they think to do. Of course, typically,
as we say, they wait to see FDA approvals and we hope that they will ask us to present the data
in June, but it's something that we don't know. What we know, it is that whatever they decide,
whenever they decide, we have prepared our marketing and commercial plans in the US as we
do, of course, in other countries, so that we can maximize the approvals or the recommendations
or the data that we have there. So that's one thing.
And the other thing, Dave explained that we are cautiously optimistic, of course, about that
comes through the entire line of guidance that we gave. We are cautiously optimistic on earnings,
we're cautiously optimistic on margins. And of course, we improved the -- again, cautiously that
we think the EPS, and you need to see all of that in the context of guys who have been there last
year with a big misalignment between what we were expecting to come for COVID and
eventually what came.
And that, it is something that makes us to be double cautious when we speak about projections.
We know credibility is extremely important for us. So, everything we say, we feel are rock solid
that we will achieve and we don't say anything more than that. We prefer to achieve rather than
say. So, that is a context to all the guidance that we have provided this time.
So, with that, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is now open.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. A couple of financial focused questions, if I may. First, on
gross margin, Dave, I remember last time you mentioned two specific things, in-sourcing of
recently-acquired products as well as new launches as being a drag on gross margin. Considering
both those things were presumably baked into 1Q and 1Q looked more like what the historic
margin build would have implied, wouldn't that suggest full year margin is tracking meaningfully
north of the full year guidance of 70% or were there one-offs like some inventory work down
from recent acquisitions in 1Q that helped it?
And secondly, and maybe this is for you and Albert, both, is there potential for a significant
monetization for -- for some of your excess manufacturing capacity from over the years, be it fill,
finish, or beyond, just considering what the broader environment is and some of the questions on
dividend.
Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I think Dave, you can take both of them. Dave?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `Yes. So, on the gross margin side, as I said, there was a couple of things that impacted favorably
our performance in Q1. The items that you listed both new product launches and in-sourcing, the
in-sourcing is probably a longer-term implication to us because those don't happen in a -- in
immediate quarter. So as you think about Seagen, it probably will be a multiyear phenomenon
that we have here. But I don't think there was an outsized impact to that. And obviously, the new
launches, we plan for those to be compressing our gross margin rates of which they did. And I
think we're off to a very solid start.
But keep in mind what I said earlier, in the back half of the year, Comirnaty sales will begin to
ramp up. They compress our gross margin rate fairly significantly given the partner contribution
and payment that we have to our partners. So, I would expect that to dampen our gross margin
performance in the back half of the year. But Umer, as you well know, is we're focused on over-
delivering if we can. So, I think we will do everything we can to continue to improve our
performance there.
And then finally, as we think about the balance sheet, first and foremost, I just want to reiterate
that our number-one priority from a capital allocation perspective is both supporting and growing
our dividend over time, and that is not at risk. Secondly, yes, we always look at the assets that we
have across our platform and understand what's the best way to capitalize on those assets and
some of that may be monetizing some of that, some of that may be operating them more
effectively. So, everything is on the table from that perspective.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. And although your answer was very complete, I would just reiterate something
that you said because it seems like that some people, they want to hear it again. The dividend is
a separate power for us. Dividend, it is secure and we will continue our policy on dividend as we
had promised repeatedly, and we don't have to monetize things to be able to achieve that. The
reason why we are looking at all our assets is because we want to maximize return on the capital.
And of course, we will see opportunities and when it makes sense, like the ones that we
described, there is a serious now issue with sterile capacity that people are looking to apply. We
will look for everything, but it's not that we are looking right now on this or that because we need
to support the dividend or we need to support the de-levering opportunities or need to support
the investments in the business, right? We can do that without doing any of that. Thank you very
much.
Let's go to the next question.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America. Your line is now open.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, everyone. Thanks for the question. I just have two quick ones. The first is, now that Seagen
has been fully integrated and you'll see some commercial leverage from the deal, would you
expect to see more of a gradual impact on the PADCEV and etc., trajectories looking out a few
years or could you have a more near-term inflection?
And then the second question, Dave, Albert, the capital allocation commitment to the dividend is
super clear. Would we view on Slide 12 as dividend and deleveraging as the two highest priorities
or is bolt-on BD still in the mix for this year or next? Thank you.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Let's go to Chris to understand the commercial impact on Seagen and then how that will
take time.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
And thank you very much. So, as you know, we did a number of months planning prior to close to
ensure we had a seamless integration and we completed cross-training of our commercial field
force teams in January, and especially for breast scans between Tukysa and Ibrance, but also for
hematology -- hematology between Adcetris and Abrysvo. And we should start seeing that
further playing out now over the coming months. As we've mentioned, we're obviously very
pleased that there's been tremendous colleague retention. So, we haven't had an issue with
colleague retention, both from the legacy Pfizer and the legacy Seagen organization as we build
the new business. And we expect to continue to do well. There's significant enthusiasm from
healthcare providers, from patients, from patient advocacy groups because of the
groundbreaking data, double the overall survival.
So, we can see -- we are confident that we'll continue to see PADCEV growth. We've also seen
Tukysa, for instance, 21% year-over-year pro forma basis growth. And in fact, last quarter was the
highest performance of Tukysa. And so overall, great confidence and we started the first new
Phase 3 study with an NDE -- NME from the Seagen portfolio with Sigvotatug and we hope to
update you on other Phase 3 studies from their portfolio -- from the Seagen portfolio -- legacy
Seagen portfolio.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And then, from my perspective is, of course, we have invested so much into this business and we
think this is an area that we can make a huge difference to the world. I'm monitoring that very
closely. I'm very impressed actually, I would say, nicely surprised on the positive side, how well
both on the Pfizer impact of the one plus one equals three rather than two, but already we have
started seeing it both in the recept organization because we are putting now a lot of Phase 3 on
start and you don't see, but I have high-visibility on what's going on in earlier stages where we
put a lot of stuff in the clinic.
And then also on the commercial that you can see now a stabilization of Ibrance on the Pfizer side
and then high-growth of the Seagen assets despite the fact that as I said, you should expect a
decline in the first six months. When you have an integration, always you have a decline. I haven't
seen a single integration that we have done, but we didn't face challenges because people are
changing territories, people are changing, let's say, jobs, marketers are moving around. All of that
creates, let's say, a disruption. Here, we have the opposite. We have a very, very strong growth
on both sides. So, I'm really, really pleased. Now, of course, cautiously optimistic, it will take time
to see the full benefit. But certainly, under Chris' leadership and he has formed a terrific team, we
are off to a very good start.
Now, Dave, why don't you take also the next question?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
So, as it relates to your question regarding capital allocation, clearly, our first priority and number
one priority is supporting both the dividend as well as de-levering our balance sheet. So, that is
job one from my perspective. As it relates to bolt-on acquisitions, in the near term, you would notexpect us to do much there. We are -- that is a lower priority in the near term until we get
ourselves (technical difficulty). Hope that helps.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Kripa Devarakonda, Analyst, Truist Securities with Truist. Your line is open.
Q - `Kripa Devarakonda, Analyst, Truist Securities
Hey, guys. Thank you so much for taking my questions and congrats on the progress. I have a
question about your breast cancer franchise from the Ibrance perspective. You have pivotal data
from the estrogen receptor PROTAC, the collaboration with -- the partnership with Arvinas
expected later this year. One is, what are your expectations for these data? And how important
are these data for you to make decisions around either continuing or initiating that Combo Phase
3 trials like to -- whether it's CDK4/6 combo or CDK4 combo or both of them? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Chris?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
Albert, thanks. Yes. Thank you very much for the question. Just a reminder to point out, with
Ibrance, that over 773,000 patients have now been treated globally with Ibrance. So, it is currently
still the CDK4/6 leader. We're very excited about two programs, vepdegestrant, which we
believe could be best-in-class next-generation S1 receptor degrader, and also atirmociclib, next-
generation CDK4 specific inhibitor.
For vepdegestrant, as you point out, we'll get the data later this year for VERITAC-2, but we are
planning additional studies as well. So you can expect to see first-line studies, both a first-line
study with atirmociclib and standard-of-care endocrine therapy as well as atirmociclib plus the --
plus vepdegestrant.
And for atirmociclib, you -- and as you've seen in a heavily pre-treated population, we've seen an
overall response rate of 32% with median progressive survival of 8.1 months. We're therefore
highly encouraged and definitely very encouraged by the safety profile and we see more
continuous dosing, very good compliance, and more complete coverage of CDK4. And that's
why we're confident to accelerate CDK4 into a registration strategy. And the first study is already
started, as you know, the second-line study.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays `Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to ask a follow-up -- I -- because as I
think it's important and I fully respect the focus on '24 and Albert's commentary on conservatism
around guidance. But to come back to the IRA impact for thinking about '25, when do you think
you'll be in a better position to comment a little bit under -- your contracting discussions are
underway, pretty late in the earnings season here and most of your peers have already made
comments and your Part-D exposure isn't exactly a surprise. So, any color there on timeline would
be helpful.
And I guess for David, you've talked about the operating margin improvement being sort of a
multi-year process, is there risk that the IRA sort of presents a little bit of a hiccup to that in '25?
Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Aamir, do you have any comments on that?
A - `Aamir Malik, US Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. So, Carter, I think you heard us describe the dynamics and later this year, we will have more
clarity on what that means. And so we can certainly share that. I think there's also a specific
question that comes up often about Eliquis, so let me just address that now because we are
clearly in a live negotiation on that. BMS, our alliance partner is leading that process. You've heard
them describe and we also describe that there will be transparency around the outcome of that
for impact in '26 in the September timeframe. And so at that point, we'll be in a position to share
more.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. And I guess as it relates to 2025 and the impact of the IRA from a margin expansion
perspective, I would say without giving any specifics on that is, as we look forward, we obviously
run multiple scenarios around how our business might perform. And in those scenarios, we would
model different impacts to the IRA because it's still unclear because there's still a lot of moving
parts, specifically as we just spoke about. Under those scenarios, we will work hard to offset any
implication we might have through improving our cost structure.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And I want on the IRA also to say something that, clearly in 2025, we will have two events are
happening, which are -- we will have to contribute to as pharmaceutical industry, so that will put
pressure on the pricing, let's say. But also because of the significant pains in the out-of-pocket
dynamics, and which I hope that will be implemented as the law says immediately because I'm
hearing efforts to try to play with that. But if that is the case, which we are certain because that's
the law, we will see significant more update, right, for everyone, not for us, of course, for
everyone because there is huge number of abandonment that is happening at the pharmacy
level when people are asked to pay this very-high out-of-pockets, particularly the first one-
quarter and maybe two when they need to exhaust their, let's say, the co-pays or the deductible.
So, that I think, dynamic, you know that the industry always asked that we contribute to the out-of-
pocket payments as long as the patients are paying less because there is a significant benefit for
all, for the healthcare system, for the patients, for us. And so I'm not that concerned about that
for the industry as a whole. I'm very concerned for the industry as a whole with the mandatory
cost reductions, there is no negotiation there. They are just cutting prices that are occurring for
biologics and for more molecules particularly.One good thing for us, it is first of all that we have good exposure on vaccines that they are not
part of that, actually they are benefiting from the IRA because there is no co-sharing. So, we can
see that in the volumes again. But on the small molecules where we do have exposure, I would
say that we were lucky only one product was selected for '26. We could have three or four and
only one was elected. And so Eliquis, as Aamir said, we will wait to see. We know of course, but
we can't discuss in the middle of negotiations about anything that is happening. And so we'll see
the impact of whatever that is in 2026.
Then, if next year, they bring some of the other products that they could be included and they
were not in this year, that will be the Ibrance of the world, that will be the Xtandi, Xeljanz, those
are products that anyway they are approaching their LOE. So, even if they come into the IRA, the
NPV risk that we have in place is not that big because really will cut the price for something that
will not be for very lengthy period of time, but will be for smaller than others' period of time. This
doesn't mean that this is not very bad for the industry and for innovation and we're clearly
opposing and we will try whatever we can to defend it.
Let's go to the next question because we are running out of time.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Rajesh Kumar, Analyst, HSBC with HSBC. Your line is open.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, Analyst, HSBC `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. First question is, you very helpfully provided
some color on the gross margin. What are the takes and puts there? If we look at your early 70%s
guidance and the gross margin you achieved in Q1, do we see below 70%s gross margin at some
point in some quarter this year or you sort of will get to early 70%s with throughout the year,
maintaining over 70% margins.
And then the bit which is quite difficult to work out from the disclosures is, how did the PAXLOVID
number impact the gross margin? So any help there so that we can model that right would be
much appreciated.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Great. So, yes, I think we just gave some color around gross margin being closer to 70% versus
closer to 80% when we entered 2024. We are maintaining that color at this point in time. I would
say that it's unlikely for our gross margin rate to fall below 70% in any given quarter. But I want to
just emphasize the gross margin rate will fluctuate a bit, primarily given the mix of sales,
specifically within the vaccine portfolio, which carries a lower gross margin, number one.
Number two, when you look at our performance for gross margin in Q1, the dominant -- a
dominant effect of that versus last year is the mix, the lower sales volume of Comirnaty in the
quarter in Q1 versus last year's Q1. Obviously, the final adjustment of the PAXLOVID reserve
actually did also have a one-time positive impact on the gross margin rate in Q1, but that was less
of an impact compared to the mix. So, I hope that helps. And thus, I want to emphasize that on
PAXLOVID, what really makes me pleased, it is the underlying demand of the product, right. So, it
was I think approached approximately in the first quarter only in the US 2 million scripts, right. So,of go-to-market approach to a commercial model, right, but I had a lot of mines in execution, but
we didn't step into any of that. So, it was -- again, I'm very pleased how Aamir and the US team
executed on that, meticulous execution. So, we had a very smooth transition with very low co-
pays on the commercial plans for the vast majority of the insured lives. And then at the same
time, very good execution with thousands of pharmacies participating, almost 90,000
pharmacies, if I remember well -- 90%, excuse me, of the pharmacists participating into the
Medicare part. And that went extremely well. And also I want to remind that the Medicare that
goes clearly with different price level because it is through the credit of the US government
compared to the commercial plans that they are at 1,000. It's a different list price. And that
difference exists for this year on. Next year, everybody moves to the list price and of course, the
discounts that we give plan-by-plan. Let's go over the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs. with Goldman Sachs. Your line is
open.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs. `
Thank you. Two questions, if I may. The first on pneumococcal vaccines with PREVNAR as well. Last
quarter, you provided some commentary about your thoughts on the tone of the markets,
particularly for adult being somewhat more mature and obviously competition is coming across
the different categories, adults and pediatrics. Can you comment about your view given that
performance was relatively strong and how you're preparing for competition?
The second question I have is on commercial models. There has been some nascent efforts in
the industry to go more direct-to-consumers. I say, for instance, Lilly has the Lilly-direct for their
obesity products. Aamir, I'm curious about your thoughts about integrating this type of approach,
particularly as I think about certain product categories that you have like migraines and Nurtec.
How might this work? Where is Pfizer in terms of exploring these opportunities? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, US Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Okay. Chris, thanks for the question. So, on PREVNAR, you alluded to the commentary we
provided around dimensionalizing the market. And I think it's worthwhile just reiterating that. So,
the adult market continues to contract and that's for two reasons. There are increasingly fewer
eligible 65-plus adults. And then the 19 to 64 underlying medical conditions population is
obviously more difficult to activate. So, that is a dynamic that is true for our business, but it's also
true for any competitor that's going to come into the adult vaccine market. So, I think that's
important to note.
Now, for our overall franchise, we continue to expect growth. We did very nicely in Q1. We saw 6%
growth. And the big driver of that is increased uptakes as well as market share growth in the
pediatrics segment. So, pediatrics in Q1, we saw a lot of conversion PCV 13 to 20 and our share
exiting Q1 was at 80%, and that was from 71% at the time of launch of PCV 15. So, we see good
momentum on pediatrics.
Now back to your question about the adult segment and competition. We're continuing to see
very good performance where we are. We have 98% market share. We acknowledge that D-116 iscoming. And as Albert alluded to earlier, we're not going to speculate on what the regulatory
outcomes or recommendations are going to be. But there are a number of things that we can do
to defend our business in the adult segment.
Firstly, we have a portfolio approach to contracting that we're deploying in the retail setting, but
also in the non-retail setting. And it's also important to note that in the non-retail setting, many
organized customers have a preference for workflow management to stock one vaccine that
satisfies all the current ways of recommendations. So, until we know more, I think the best way to
defend our share in the adult segment is to continue to do what we're doing and that's to be
laser-focused on maximizing the opportunity that we have in the adult segment, albeit
contracting, and then continue to drive growth in pediatrics.
On your second question around consumers, look, engaging and activating consumers is, as you
pointed out, a very, very important part of our business. It's true in vaccines, it's true in categories
like PREVNAR and Nurtec, just to name a few examples. And we are always looking at ways to
enhance that connection. One example I'll point to is the work that we've done on VaxAssist as a
mechanism to help consumers determine their vaccine eligibility, but also book appointments.
And that's a really good example of value that we can bring. And to the extent that we can do
more of that, create value for patients as well as for our business in other categories, we'll
certainly look to explore that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Alexandre, very quickly, anything on PCV international markets?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. No, we had a great quarter. As you know, we grew by 8% operationally. But more
importantly, we also have achieved some key milestones. So, we got the European approval of
pediatric 10.20 in Europe. We also got it approved in Japan, which are a very important market,
and Australia and many others. So, this is great because then we want to build on the very
successful 10.30 franchise around the world. As you know, we have exclusive NIP status in 130
market, and now we're going to be able to build on that.
Just one comment on the adults. We still are in the process of getting BTC recommendation in
most of the European market, but where we got it in Germany and in France, we see very nice
pickup. And why? Because they extended the population covered by the 10.20 adults. For
instance, in Germany, sickle gave us 18 to 59 population at-risk and alzheimer's 60 and above.
And since that -- and we got this recommendation in February, we get very nice pickup and
utilization in Germany, and we are about to launch in France as we speak. So, in adults, all as well,
we see a great potential opportunity.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And it's very nice cadence of approval and a very nice cadence of recommendations. Next
question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo `Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. Maybe a question for Dave. Just wanted to
understand the cadence of margin improvement as you are embarking on the cost management
journey throughout the year because I mean like, so you had a really high EPS because of the
one-time item. But if you think about margin profile over the year, how should we think about it? I
understand fourth quarter could be impacted with Comirnaty revenues. And then when we get
into 2025, should we think about a better leverage or do you think there could be more
opportunity to reduce expenses in '25 as well? Thank you.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. Thank you for the question. I would say that, without giving -- since we don't guide to
quarterly expectations for gross margin, I would just say that the focus that we have around
improving our cost of goods sold is a multi-year journey. And these costs that we are working to
improve take time to adjust and to further implement ways to be more effective and efficient in
this infrastructure. So I wouldn't think of that having a significant impact on 2024, but more -- if it
would, it would be late 2024, but more '25 and '26. So -- but more to come as we know more.
And as we develop our plans more specifically, we'll be certain to share some specifics around
that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Chris Schott, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Great. Just two ones for me here. Just on -- first of all, just really quickly following up on the
earlier commentary. Can you just update us on where we are in terms of contracting efforts and
progress in the retail channel, just addressing some of the market share issues you highlighted
last year. I guess my specific question is, do you have line-of-sight on contracting at this point or is
that still something that's going to evolve as the year progresses?
And then the second quick one was just on Vyndaqel, obviously, very strong numbers. Maybe just
a quick update in terms of where we are with penetration in that market and where do we -- how
much higher can this go, and just how much more of a growth runway is there for that drug?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, US Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Chris. So, on Abrysvo, as I said, we're -- we're progressing our contracting conversations.
So, we'll have more to share on that as we do later. And in terms of your question on Vynda,
Vynda had a really strong quarter. We were up 96% year-over-year, but importantly also 41% over
last quarter. When you look at the drivers, I think there's a few things. Some of that is temporal.
So, there were some purchasing patterns with wholesaler and specialty pharmacies. And then we
also made a lot of efforts towards the end of last year to ensure that the re-enrollment process
for patients was very smooth at the beginning of this year. So, all of that leads to a little bit of a
Q1 bolus.But importantly, at the heart of it, part of our strong performance on Vynda is that the
fundamentals around diagnosis and demand are really strong. So. we saw a 33% quarter-over-
quarter increase in new patient starts. And diagnosis rates over the last several years, we had
talked about getting into the 30% to 50% range. We're approaching the top end of that. And
there is still significant opportunity to identify more patients. That's the biggest unmet need and
that's where we're concentrating our commercial efforts going forward. So, we do think that we
will sustain this momentum, probably not at the same rate that we saw in Q1, but we will continue
to perform well with Vynda.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Alexandre, anything to add?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. Very quickly on the international front, we also had a very strong quarter because we saw a
28% operational growth, but a 43% volume growth, which is comparable to what we see in the
US. Exactly as Aamir said, there is still opportunity because we basically have established
Vyndaqel as the standard-of-care and we have worked with the healthcare professional to
establish robust infrastructure so that we can screen, diagnose, and treat faster. And the reality is,
we still have opportunity to grow because, yes, in markets like France, we are approaching 50%,
but in other like Italy, we are around 30%, Japan 28%. So, there is still opportunity to grow and
increase diagnosis rates.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Next question. We'll take two more questions because we are running out
of time. So, next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your line is
open.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Tim?
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yes. Can you hear me?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yes. So, it's a busy pipeline readout year. I'm wondering, Mikael, can you just point to perhaps the
one or two bigger upcoming readouts that excite you the most, where your confidence is highest
that could be value-creating? So, I'm not looking for a description of everything reading out, just
maybe one or two that excite you the most.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Tim. Mike, excite us all, please.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Pfizer Research and Development
Yes, yes. I am excited about the potential approval for marstacimab for both hemophilia A and B
to continue to grow our hematology franchise momentum. DMD gene therapy, we actually today
got the equivalent of breakthrough designation. (inaudible), based on the early clinical data
available, so we are super excited about that. And relatively near term, the readout is coming.
COVID flu combination vaccine, 1859 readout, Phase 3, and then one mid-pipeline on cetuximab
[ph] and TUKYSA which I think are pending readout has really a breakthrough mechanism.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
That's fantastic. Anything from your side, Chris?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
And perhaps just to mention again the potential unprecedented new five-year data for Lorbrena,
which will be presented oral at ASCO, which could define the growth of Lorbrena over the next
decade. There's two other upcoming readouts.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
That would be good if you are talking to that. That would be fantastic.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Oncology Officer, Executive Vice President `
And there's two other and readouts that's important to us. One is BREAKWATER, which is the
first-line opportunity in BRAF-positive colorectal cancer. A reminder that that's up to 12% of
colorectal cancer, particularly poor prognosis. So, we're looking forward to that readout,
BREAKWATER. And then also, as mentioned earlier, VERITAC-2 in second-line ER-positive breast
cancer, which can define -- also help to define the future path for VERITAC as well.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. And the last question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our last question will come from `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Your line is now open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you. I have two questions. In the Pfizer, mRNA flu vaccine efficacy trial, was superior efficacy
versus approved flu vaccine shown in the 65-plus cohort? This data was to have been presented
last year, but I don't believe we've ever gotten an update.
And then secondly, your interest in obesity more broadly. So, the outlook for danuglipron is not
good, bolt-ons don't look likely, but -- and this is just one very simple data point. There are
postings on pfizer.com for obesity clinical lead positions suggesting something is moving forward.
So, what exactly is moving forward in obesity at Pfizer? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yes. On the obesity, and Mikael also can comment, of course, together with the mRNA flu
vaccine. But I said multiple times that first of all, metabolic is an area where we have traditionally
very big strength in terms of research and this is an area that we have the right to win. So, we are
strong and we keep investing in the whole area because we have the infrastructure. And obesity
is a very big part of it, given the magnitude of the market. So, we will be very active in the obesity
with current mechanism of actions and new mechanism of actions. We said repeatedly that we
have three agents right now in the clinic and we have multiple that they are pre-clinical and that
we are progressing. But we don't have anything to say per se right now because on danu, we are
waiting some other data and for the other ones, it's too early to speak about them. So, that's why
we are not commenting much of that. And we will, let's say, continue being very active in the
obesity space, one way or another.
Now what about the mRNA flu vaccine? And anything you want to add also to the obesity, Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Pfizer Research and Development
I think you said it so well on obesity. I'll focus on mRNA vaccine and just say that, we did share that
we had a very robust pebble [ph] data for 18 to 59 in the Outcome Event Trial on the first-
generation flu mRNA platform. We actually further refined that product in order to expand activity
against B serotypes, although the disease is dominated by A, we saw an opportunity to do that.
And that technology is now with the COVID flu combo vaccine running for 18 to 59 years old and
relatively soon, we'll have a readout. We think that's really the near-term opportunity to bring
both of the variant viruses under one simple administration approach. For the 65-plus, what you
referred to was an early trial with the first-generation. We have now moved focus to the second-
generation and are in preparation of subsequent clinical studies on that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. So, thank you, operator, and thank you everyone for your interest. That was a
very good call. In summary, we are very pleased with the solid start in 2024. We are cautiously
optimistic about the year ahead. And with our continued progress in executing our five priorities,
we are confident that we will continue to deliver for our patients, shareholders, and our Company.
Thank you again for your interest in Pfizer and we hope to have -- you have a wonderful week.
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may
disconnect at any time and have a wonderful day.