S1 2026 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us today, taking time out of your
presumably busy schedule. Now we would like to begin TMC's FY2026 Q2 financial results
briefing.
I am Irie from Corporate Communications. Pleased to be your MC today.
Now I would like to invite our Chief Financial Officer, `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, for his presentation. Kon-san,
over to you.
`Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer `
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the introduction. I am Kon.
Before I begin, I would like to start by sincerely thanking our customers around the world who
love Toyota cars, our shareholders who support our efforts, our dealers and suppliers and other
stakeholders.
Here is a summary of the Q2 results. Our operating income for H1 of this fiscal year was JPY2
trillion. Despite the impact of US tariffs, strong demand supported by the competitiveness of
products has led to increased sales volumes, mainly in Japan and North America and has
expanded value chain profits.
The full-year operating income forecast is JPY3.4 trillion. Despite the impact of the US tariffs, we
have continued to build upon our improvement efforts such as increasing sales volume, improving
costs and expanding value chain profits. We are steadily translating comprehensive future
investments into improved productivity and increased returns with a strong focus on improving
the breakeven volume.
As for shareholder returns, to reward our long-term shareholders, the interim dividend is raised
to JPY45 per share, and the full-year dividend forecast is JPY95 per share.
As announced at the Japan Mobility Show 2025, we will clearly define the five brands of the
Toyota Group with clear directions. A diverse range of products meet the needs of each
individual customers and thereby expanding choice for our customers.
I will now delve into our financial results for the period ended September 2025.
Consolidated vehicle sales for H1 reached 4,783,000 units or 105% of the same period last year.
Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales totaled 5,267,000 units or 104.7% compared to the previous fiscal
year.Thanks to a strong demand from customers around the world, vehicle sales increased mainly in
Japan and North America.
The ratio of electrified vehicles rose to 46.9%, driven mainly by strong HEV sales in regions such
as North America and China.
Consolidated financial results.
Sales revenues of JPY24,630.7 billion; operating income, JPY2,005.6 billion; income before
income taxes, JPY2,478.1 billion and net income of JPY1,773.4 billion.
The factors that impacted operating income YoY are shown on the slide.
Now the geographical operating income.
In Japan, operating income decreased mainly due to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations
and increased expenses.
In North America, it decreased because of the impact of the US tariffs.
Other regions saw an increase mainly due to higher sales volume, improved model mix and other
factors.
Our China business saw increase in operating income and share of profit of investments
accounted for using the equity method.
Operating income in the financial services segment increased largely due to an increase in loan
balances.
Now we will move on to the shareholder returns.
We will raise the interim dividend by JPY5 compared to the previous fiscal year to JPY45 per
share. The forecasted full-year dividend will also be increased by JPY5, reaching JPY95 per share.
We will continue to increase dividends in a stable and continuous manner to reward our long-term
shareholders.
As for share repurchases, in June of this year, we passed a resolution to establish a repurchase
program of approximately JPY3.2 trillion as part of taking Toyota Industries Corporation private.
Therefore, no new share repurchase program will be established at this time.
We will continue to conduct flexible repurchases of shares considering factors such as common
stock prices.
Next, I'll explain the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 2026.
Consolidated vehicle sales remain unchanged from the previous forecast. Toyota Lexus vehicle
sales have been revised upward by 100,000 units to 10.5 million units.
Through the strong competitiveness of our products, we will capture even more robust demand,
particularly in North America.
Next, let me explain the full-year consolidated forecast.
We have adopted the full-year Forex rate assumptions of JPY146 per US dollar and JPY169 perOur forecast for the full-year consolidated performance are sales revenues of JPY49 trillion,
operating income of JPY3.4 trillion, income before income taxes of JPY180 billion and net income
of JPY2,930 billion.
The factors impacting operating income YoY are as stated on the slide, despite the impact of US
tariffs amounting to JPY1.45 trillion, improvement efforts such as increasing volume, model mix,
cost reductions and expanding value chain profits are expected to result in a positive impact of
JPY0.9 trillion.
To maintain and strengthen our earnings power, we will work with all stakeholders, including
suppliers and dealers to leverage results of the strengthening of our operational foundations to
further improve productivity.
I believe everyone here has seen the models we unveiled at the Japan Mobility Show.
These cars speak more for themselves than I ever could. Each and every product is something
that could not be created overnight.
Toyota is a company managed through its products, which are the results of long-term efforts
built up by many people. Our products were created by our development teams, production
teams, suppliers, dealers and of course, our customers and the market.
The H1 financial results reflect these efforts, and our cars have generated solid profits.
And now in addition to Toyota, Lexus, Daihatsu and GR, we are able to introduce the new
Century brand.
By having each brand take on clearer roles within the Toyota Group to form complementary
relationships, we can expand customers' choices even further with a diverse range of products
that meet the needs of each individual.
We hope we will continue to have even higher expectations for the Toyota Group moving
forward.
A diverse range of products supported by such strong brands has led to 150 million units owned
by our customers worldwide, and the value chain business has expanded to the order of JPY2
trillion in operating income.
This is a result of efforts by teams on the front lines in service, sales finance, used car sales,
insurance and others to maximize the value of each vehicle supported by product strength such
as ease of repair and strong supply of parts as well as high residual values.
The new RAV4 is the first to adopt Arene, a platform designed to efficiently develop software.
RAV4 is our best-selling global model with an annual sales of 1 million units. We deliberately chose
to lead with this challenging model.
By utilizing the vast amount of data collected from roads and vehicles around the world, we will
develop and refine SDVs together with our customers.
By adding our SDV strategy to the virtuous cycle of new cars and value chain businesses, we will
further strengthen our profit foundation.
Over the past two years, we have grappled with certification issues and lack of capacity head onfocused on safety and quality while securing additional capacity, leading to a stable production.
On the other hand, investments in human resources and future-oriented investments have
expanded and combined with the impact of US tariffs, our breakeven volume has risen
significantly.
To bring our breakeven volume back onto a downward trend, we are launching a company-wide
initiatives. We will review the allocation of people, materials and capital and turn the results of the
reinforcement of our operational foundations into earning power. We will pursue waste-free
value-added work and improve productivity and also continue to focus on improving the
breakeven volume.
This concludes my explanation of the financial results. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much, Kon-san.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Now we would like to open the floor for questions. Let us prepare the stage. Your questions will
be addressed by our Chief Financial Officer, `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer; as well as our COO, Takanori Azuma
from the Accounting Group.
Please allow them to be seated as they respond to your questions. Now I would like to open the
floor for questions.
Q - Unverified Participant
I am Kawaguchi from Nikko Kogyo Shimbun. Two questions.
Number one, first of all, for the past several years, you are focusing on earning power. There
must have been various external factors. But how have you raised your earning power with those
efforts? And how has that been reflected in the Q2 results? Now 15% in September is something
that we heard about the US tariffs as determined. And further throughout the year, how do you
plan to minimize the impact? I am sure you're working in various fronts, but probably you can tell
us your directions.
Operator
Thank you very much for your questions. Well, earning power. So the first question was how our
efforts have delivered, and that certainly is a question about our financial results themselves. As I
mentioned in my presentation, JPY2 trillion and JPY3.4 trillion in operating income is what we
have announced. We do have external factors, of course, but we do have global customers with
very strong demand for our products. And we feel that day in, day out because of the high quality
and the power of our products, which has been the result of our accumulated efforts.
Regionally, North America, as you know, because of the impact of the tariffs, the situation is not
rosy, although I cannot share with you other than North America. For example, China, Europe,
Asian markets and Africa. These markets, although the situation is not easy, but in terms of both
revenues and sales volumes, we have seen some healthy situations. Brazil experienced some
typhoons and hurricanes. But yesterday, we announced the restarting of the production. Actually,that has been brought forward by tremendous efforts made in the front line of our business, and
that certainly is a part, a very important part of our earning power.
In terms of our value chain, JPY2 trillion annually is the revenues that we can expect for 150 million
cars being owned, of course, is the basis of the value chain revenues. But once again, that
represents the power of our products. Residual value of used cars, for example, is maintained
very high. And also Toyota vehicles often said as being very easy to repair because that concept
is already built in, in the design of the cars. The repair personnel is involved in design so that easy
to repair is an important part of our product, although it is not visible from outside. All of those
components put together have been integrated into our earning power, thus the Q2 results.
As for the second question of yours about the impact of the US tariffs, how we responded
successfully. I think I showed you some slide about that. Did I? Well, JPY1.45 trillion is the impact
from the US tariffs. At the beginning of the year, our President, Sato-san talked about this. We
really should not panic and try and respond hastily by raising prices of the cars. That's not our way.
For each vehicle, each model, each region, we will scrutinize the competitive landscape and the
market and we carefully determine the price point.
And as you can see on this slide, and of course, the efforts were not solely made to respond to
the tariffs. But as you can see on the right-hand side, our improvement efforts amounted to
JPY90 million, excuse me, JPY90 billion, JPY900 billion. And of course, that includes strong sales,
reflecting strong capacity of the product as well as the value chain revenues. Do you have
anything to add?
Q - Unverified Participant
Probably not.
Operator
Thank you for your question.
Next question. So next to the previous questioner. Mizuno from Yomiuri Newspaper.
Q - Unverified Participant
My question is to Kon-san. The Chinese semiconductors at the next, the issue of nexter. What
sort of countermeasures are you taking against that shortfall? Has it impacted you? And what sort
of measures do you intend to take going forward, please?
Operator
Mizuno-san, if you could ask two questions at once or are you satisfied with just one?
Q - Unverified Participant
Just one is fine.
Operator
Okay. Well, most recently, we have not seen any impact so far, but we do know that there's a risk.
Therefore, we're trying to scope the impact and the areas where the impact would be felt, and
we are currently monitoring the situation very closely. And of course, this is not only for Toyota,
but it's, I think, for the entire supply chain, and we're looking for alternatives and what otheroptions we have available, we are researching such alternatives and also monitoring very closely
the impact and situation.
We have a person with a white jacket in front.
Q - Unverified Participant
I'm from [Nagai] TV Tokyo. I have two questions for Kon-san.
Number one, about the US market forecast. For the entire year, you have made some changes or
not, no, you have not made any changes. But according to researchers, after October, because
of the tariffs, car prices could rise in the general US market. So how do you view the North
American market going forward?
The second question is about what you mentioned in the second part of your presentation,
earning power. In order to regain the downward trend, the all-out efforts will be made. What sort
of efforts will you be making in terms of breakeven volumes, for example, what level would you
like to bring it back by what time frame?
Operator
Thank you very much for your questions. As for the North American markets going forward, as
you mentioned and very rightly so, the volumes that we expect have not been changed from the
previous announcement. As we hear from the US, we see lots of very strong demand for our
products. You may know that the sales incentives tend to be very low, reflecting the strong value
of our products. We can barely cover the demand and our inventory level tends to be rather low.
And of course, on the front line, they are doing their very best in producing the number of cars
needed. In terms of sales, therefore, we expect very healthy situations going forward.
Now about the breakeven volumes in our earning power. I said that we will be making an all-on
efforts involving different and various activities and initiatives. There are so many. I don't know
which one should take the highest priority, but enhancing the value-add work, eliminating wasteful
tasks, for example, wasteful time of meetings with lots of people involved without many
contributions. And of course, we'll be very careful in determining price point and increased sales
certainly reduces breakeven volumes, our value chain revenues as well. We do not have the clear
goals in terms of quantities, but we have seen this trend of increasing volumes, and we would like
to see it decline.
Second or third row from the back, yes.
Q - Unverified Participant
[Chikaoka] from Nikkei xTech. I have two questions as well.
First question about hybrid. Hybrid is growing quite rapidly. So going forward, do you have any
expectations about the future growth of hybrid going forward? As for EV, in 2030, 3.5 million
units, I think, is your base volume, and you don't intend to change that base volume? That's the
first question.
Second question is about the price pass-through of tariff costs. Tariffs, basically speaking or in
essence, should be borne by the US side. That is my recognition. If so, well, you mentioned that
there's a strong demand for Toyota, which means that perhaps 15% of the entire tariff could be
passed through to prices. And then for Toyota and for your cooperating companies, that wouldlead to increased profit and would be beneficial for both. So would you say this is not as simple
as that? Could you tell me about your thinking on this point on this issue?
Operator
Yes. May I? Regarding hybrid vehicles, it is growing very rapidly. And would that continue going
forward, I guess, is the gist of your question. Well, we believe that the growth will continue. And I
can't say but from what I hear from my observations of the market, the request for increased
production toward hybrids and the demand from customers for hybrids is very strong. So we
would like to accommodate such requests through production, through increased production and
accommodate the customers' requests, thereby increasing our volume for hybrids, I believe.
As for BEV, well, we're looking at the actual demand, and it seems that compared to our initial
estimations, things are actually declining. That is, there's a shortfall against our expectations. And
therefore, we have to look at the customer and market situation to at an appropriate timing,
deliver good products that meet their needs.
And the next one was about price pass-through of tariff costs. Well, if you say that because you
have such competitive product, if you increase your prices by 15%, it will be beneficial for all you
said. But well, for many years, in the case of Toyota, we have many cars that's really been loved
and used by our customers. For example, Corolla, Hilux Surf or 4Runner in the US or Highland
Cruiser. We have many, many different models and many customers are loyal to these brands.
They continue to use them many, many years. And many of our customers are fans of our cars,
which means that for us to price these vehicles out of the expectations of customers is very
difficult for us to do.
So we want to enhance the value of these cars in order to charge the customers an appropriate
price that meets that value because if you outprice the customers' expectations, you can really
lose their loyalty. So our method would be to take it step by step. As for hybrids, in 2025, I think
somebody said it will reach 5 million units. Perhaps it was a goal that somebody mentioned.
Q - Unverified Participant
I'm sorry, I'm not quite sure about this, but 5 million in 2020 something, do you have a goal like
that, a numerical target?
Operator
You mean hybrids?
Q - Unverified Participant
Yes, hybrids.
Operator
Well, at least I don't have any numbers firsthand on when we'll reach 5 million, but the hybrid ratio
amongst our 4.46 million units this year. That's about 200,000 units up from last year. So this
pace of growth, I think we should maintain this pace of growth going forward.
Thank you very much for your questions. Now this person in the second row in the section,
please.
Q - Unverified ParticipantI am Nakano from Nishi Nippon Daily. Now I have two questions.
The first question is about Kandamachi in Fukuoka Prefecture, the battery plant for EVs. In April,
you were to sign the MOU with the prefecture, but now it has been prolonged and postponed to
autumn. What is the progress? And also 2028 start of operation that has been planned as well as
the production capacity, have there been any changes to your original plans?
The next question is about taxes. Under Takaichi, Prime Minister Takayichi, the tax treatment
Minister has been appointed. and some special measures could be taken in terms of taxes. And
what is the view on that situation? And also with the outlook for any preferential tax treatment, do
you have any outlook for that?
Operator
Thank you very much for your questions. As for the first question, Fukuoka Kanda battery factory,
ongoing study continues. So I heard that is. Well, we are talking with the Fukuoka government and
stakeholders in Fukuoka prefecture currently.
As for the taxation, well, we have seen the changes in the administration in this country. Now
there are various taxes involved in automotives and revising and changing of those taxes have
been something that JAMA and other organizations have been advocating towards the
government. Well, when it comes to taxes, we have to consider how we may be able to maintain
monozukuri in production in this country in a healthy way. It's very important for the entire industry,
not only for the automotives. I hope any form of taxes will be able to enhance domestic demand
for the industrial products. Therefore, it is my belief that JAMA will continue to advocate for that.
And then the person in white at the very back of the room.
Q - Unverified Participant
From Kyoto, my name is [Kokumitsu]. I also have two questions.
First question, the Japan Mobility Show is now on. And I saw the exhibit there. And the Century
branding has come to a milestone, I think. But I think that some of these pilot cars are also viewed
toward mass production. So do they represent the future production plans of Toyota?
The second question is about the impact of tariffs. You said it was JPY1.4 trillion, but now that's
been increased to JPY1.45 trillion, so a slight increase. And in August, you had calculated on a
reduction in auto tariffs, but you did make that modification after the imposition of the actual
tariffs in September.
Operator
Is that the reason for this slight increase is the question?
Q - Unverified Participant
Yes. Thank you.
Operator
Regarding the Japan Mobility Show, thank you very much for coming to our booth at the Japan
Mobility Show. As you said, well, I don't know if we intend to mass produce all of them. But of
course, several of these models will be marketed in the future, at least I believe they will be. AndBut especially the Century brand, was launched, we were able to launch a totally new brand
called Century, which I thought was a very big step forward because currently, new car names,
new models are very hard to come by, but to start from starting a totally new brand, I think, was a
major initiative in the company, and it's also a big message from us. The launch, you may have
heard the presentation to launch Century.
Our Chairman, Toyoda said, this is the pride of Japan. He said Century, the car and the brand is
the pride of Japan. He said, from that perspective, it goes beyond just car model. I mean, I think
in Toyota, it represents not just a model, but something beyond that. So I do hope that you will
take it as such.
Regarding the second question, may I address that question? In Q1, it was JPY1.4 trillion, but now
we've added 5 million. And as you said, from mid-September, there was a 15% tariff imposed that
is the tariff level was decreased. And so this is based on a recalculation of the impact of tariffs.
And the tariff impact will hit not only Toyota, but also our suppliers and about 70% of parts and
components well, the components and parts manufacturers account for 70% of the market.
So we want to work together with them to overcome this. When I visit the suppliers, each supplier
has, for example, embarked on labor saving and also changing their processes, et cetera, to
challenge new initiatives to address the impact. So in addition to the product competitiveness, we
would like to master our forces together as a manufacturing industry to overcome the tariff issue.
Thank you very much for your interest. The person on the left, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
I am Toyoshima, WBS TV Tokyo. Kon-san, I have some questions for you.
As a result of the US Japan tariff agreement, what do you think of it? Well, actually, the end result
was as Toyota had expected, 15%. But now you are expecting the JPY5 million in negative
increase. Is it because you have taken the very conservative way of revisiting your numbers? Or is
the situation really, really difficult? Well, shortly after the announcement of your Q2 results, your
stock price went up a little bit, but now it began to decline. Probably the market expected more
of the improvement in revenues and profit. But how do you view that? Are there any risks of
downward revisions going forward or upward revisions in your view?
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much for your questions. Well, to be honest with you, what do we review the
situation? Well, striking the agreement itself is something that we are extremely thankful to the
government officials without anything being decided, we really cannot plan on production in the
automotive industry, which certainly is a very big industry.
So uncertainties would not lead us to focus, cannot plan on cost reduction, cannot plan anything.
Therefore, I really would like to thank all those people who are involved in the negotiations. And it
is not a small improvement. And certainly, we will have to work on what we can do, both short
term and mid- to long term in order to make further improvement, not only North America, but
procurement production, sales and marketing, all of us have to work together to bring about
some positive results.
Q - Unverified Participant
Are you relieved? Or do you still see the situation to be rather difficult?Operator
Well, I would say both. Well, upward revision or downward revision possibilities. Actually, we are
often called being very conservative in our projections. But I do believe we are being pretty
neutral about this. But of course, towards the end of the year, we certainly do make efforts so
that we can provide you with even the slightest upside.
Thank you very much for your questions. Now we'd like to entertain questions from participants
online. And after that, we'll come back to the people in the audience for questions.
Q - Unverified Participant
This is Terasaki from the Editorial Department of B Car. I have two questions.
First question, well, it's been mentioned several times about the value chain and that it takes up a
big portion of your operating profit. And looking at the graph from 2020 for five years, you
probably increased your operating profit from value chain by double. You're doing many things. I
think, of course, the value of used cars is increasing. But five years ago, I believe the residual
value of your used cars was still very high, but the operating profit doubling, I think, is something
really a tremendous feat. So specifically, what pushed up the operating income so much? And you
have 150 million cars in position. That's quite a large number. But five years ago, I think you had
similar numbers. So what changed to boost the operating profit in the value chain so much over
the past five years? To the extent that you can disclose. That's the first question.
Second question, this is a good opportunity, you talked about the Japan Mobility Show, but in your
booth in the southern hall was very popular in Century, there was a 40-minute waiting line to view
the Century. And so for the mobility show as a whole, I think the Japanese market will be boosted
and galvanized. So if you could, Kon-san talk about your impressions about the heat at the
mobility show.
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you. First question will be addressed by myself, Azuma, the value chain, well, about
seven years ago, for the employees and to the outside, the then President talked about
leveraging on the ownership and 6,000 stores and overseas 16,000 dealership network,
leveraging that strong dealership network to communicate on a one-to-one basis with our
customers. And that declaration was made in 2017 or 2016. And then we started Kinto about five
years ago, the car ownership was a little more than 100 million. But over the past five years,
thanks to you, new car sales has been increasing 10 million a year. And also our ownership of our
cars has also increased. And against that backdrop in Europe, we extended our guarantee period
so that we can entice customers to come to our dealers more often. And as the years go by, we
lose contact with our customers, but we wanted to recapture that content, to have them come to
our dealers. and purchase supplies and accessories. And that cycle has now begun to turn, and
that's now expanding from Europe to the other regions.
So that's one major initiative that led to this. And in Asia, we offer second part that is more
inexpensive accessories and supplies and also financial services are provided. So we want to
utilize the dealership network to extend our touch points with the customers. And just the head
office telling these regions what to do, you'll not come up with good ideas, but such good
practices are now being leveraged across various regions, and we are building on these good
practices, sharing these good practices, and that's leading, I think, to the very good results we
are seeing today.About the Japan Mobility Show, thank you very much for your attendance. And my question about
the Japan Mobility Show was your question. Well, we had such a large turnout of so many
customers who were viewing our cars with joy. And I was very, very happy to see the delight on
their faces. The Japan Mobility Show Motor Show. Well, I think all across the world, you see
regions where the scope or scale of these mobility shows are being reduced and they're shifting
toward the electronics and the electrical components on cars. But in Japan, we call this a mobility
show. It's a show for mobility. To have so many people come and delight in these exhibits and
how fun, we were really encouraged and heartened by them. And looking at the smiles on the
faces of customers, we are very, very happy ourselves. Thank you.
Operator
Terasaki-san, thank you very much. Now let's come back to the on-site journal. In the middle
section, the second row from the front.
Q - Unverified Participant
I am [Matsumi] from Trinity Daily. About the US, I have two questions.
President Trump the other day talked about USD10 billion investment for Toyota to build a new
plant in the US. So what is your take on what he has said? And have you made any changes to
your investment plan in the US? So that's the first question.
The second question, the US government talked about Toyota expanding its dealer network to
sell other brands cars. Is it true? And if it is, when are you starting that effort?
Operator
Thank you for your questions. For one thing, USD10 billion, I read that in news. Well, the US really
wants to see employment increasing and customers should be served with next generation of
cars and services. Therefore, we do plan sizable investment plan going forward. I cannot really
say it's USD10 billion, but I would say Toyota will continue to make a sizable investment in the US. I
have to limit myself to that.
Now in terms of Toyota's dealership to sell imported cars. Well, Toyota makes cars in the US. So
we are considering doing something about the Toyota cars made in the US. Now how about
other OEMs vehicles being sold in Toyota's dealers network? Well, it is not for us to decide. But if
there are any demand or requests for that end, then we may consider it.
Yes, the person in front of the microphone with the spectacle.
Q - Unverified Participant
From Asahi Newspaper. It's related to that issue. I have two questions on tariffs.
First question. Toyota, you're considering selling US-made cars in Japan, and that was announced
when President Trump came to Japan. But considering the briskness of the US market and also
the US and Japan production capabilities and cost of transportation, it doesn't seem to be very
economically rational. So what would be the goal or what would be the motivation of doing this if
you're going to do it?
Also, second question in relation to that, for the cars assembled in the US, conventionally, you are
procuring parts from across North America. Now these parts may be replaced by US domestic-
made parts.Are you considering such a shift? Or have you already started such initiatives?
Operator
Yes. Thank you. First question. I would like to address the first question about the economic
rationale, what's the meaning or rationale behind engaging in reverse imports? As you say, when
you look at the economic situation currently, it may not be such an economically rational initiative.
But it may deliver to Japanese customers products that are not easily available in Japan. And of
course, the model segments, et cetera, and how to price these models, what sort of supply
structure we will take. There are many challenges. So we will consider all these challenges to
consider what sort of business we can make out of that offering. So we are currently making
preparations now. So that's it for the first question.
Regarding the second question, about the local production in the US. And of course, this is not
just limited to the US, but in all regions of the world, we want to produce locally and procure
locally so that we can manufacture cars on that basis in each region. For example, this year, in
North Carolina, we have built a battery plant, which was a major decision. And this led to
increasing the local procurement rate in North America. So our plan to produce locally as much as
possible remains unchanged. So we would like to move or make efforts toward that end going
forward.
How about Mexico? How about replacing with Mexican parts? Are you considering such a
possibility? Well, currently, we have no concrete plans to do that yet. But when we consider the
suppliers who have already made forays into the local market and the manufacturing, they do
there. And of course, they are hiring employees and they have to, of course, create the livelihood
of their families as well. Therefore, I think we'll have to take all that into consideration when we
make such decisions.
Thank you very much. The two people who have raised their hands will be the last to ask
questions. Let's begin with you.
Q - Unverified Participant
I am Fukui from Nikkei Daily. I have two questions.
So your sales remains brisk because of your product competitiveness. Even ever better cars that
you have advocated for the past 10 years certainly delivered the results. Now at the mobility
show, you announced a new brand strategy, which sounds a bit futuristic. In 2024, you
experienced the certification irregularities. And at the time, you revisited your product plans
altogether. and you launched various projects do so, revisited them and some projects, I
understand, have been either delayed or canceled. What sort of impact do you see now out of
that? Because development takes two to three years. Your healthy product portfolio towards the
latter half of 2020, do you think you will be able to maintain momentum and that would impact
your profitability. So I would like to learn your mid-term view.
In relation with that, your investment in the United States has been mentioned this year, for the
year, you increased the number to about 130 units. But then your production plan remains at
around 10 million. And in the United States, you have a very low inventory level because your cars
are selling so well. So how do you plan on your capacity increase in terms of production? Because
just increasing the capacity would only increase your fixed cost. So how do you plan to go over 10
million vehicles? Do you plan to enhance your alliance within the Group and to be more efficient in
procurement of components? So what's your plan going forward?Operator
Thank you very much for your questions. About the product competitiveness for the midterm
future, it seems that you may have a question about that well, two years ago, we did experience
the certification irregularities, and we put on lots of efforts in reinforcing our foundation. Well,
sometimes we had to halt our production lines. So two years ago, one year ago, we experienced
that quite frequently. That is not about the product competitiveness, but it was about the
production.
But certainly, those hiccups we experienced in the past, they have been decreasing very rapidly. It
is true increasing the fixed cost rapidly will have a future impact. Therefore, we really have to be
careful when we plan for that. For example, it may be an impact of 1 second or 2 seconds on the
production line, but we have to make steady efforts in order to enhance our productivity step by
step. We are not talking about thousands of, or hundreds of thousands of vehicles or million
vehicles to increase in our production. So when it comes to the product competitiveness in the
midterm, we will make sure that we will maintain that going forward. That's all from myself.
Anything would you like to add?
Final question, the person in the very front row.
Q - Unverified Participant
From Nihon Newspaper. I have also two questions as well.
First question, your management is based on product and region. So one of your access is, of
course, the region, and you want to be the best in town. So compared to other manufacturers,
you have a revenue structure that's not biased in particular countries or regions. So what sort of
impact do you feel from the tariffs on this regional-based sales operation?
And another is related to this, about maintaining the production capacity of 3 million units a year,
domestically in Japan. In the previous financial results, you also announced about the new
construction in Toyota City of a factory. But due to increased tariffs by the United States, your
export costs will increase. And I believe that you announced that you will adjust destinations to
adjust for that. So how do you intend to work toward maintaining the 3 million units production
capacity in the domestic market in Japan?
Operator
I'd like to address the first question. Well, we manage our company based on product and also
region. And we are also managing the Company based on that. And about 10 years ago, we
were skewed on North America. More than half of our sales was from the United States and the
remainder from the rest of the world. But if we had been imposed such tariffs with the same sort
of situation, then the impact would have been much larger. So we have to think first about the
customers in each region to engage in our business operations, and that's done by the regions,
the same for revenue, Lexus customers GR customers and the many car companies, each are
attended to by each of these divisions or regions.
So the regions are working hard, not against each other, but in a balanced manner. And that's why
we have a very good revenue structure. For example, in Africa, in the past, Africa was part of the
other, the rest of the world, also Latin America was the same. But these regions have been
referred or transferred to Toyota Tsusho and with I think it's being run by that business is run by
people who think first about Africa. So they support very high revenues in Africa. And in the
earnings report, Japan, Asia, Europe, Africa and the other regions and the other regions areactually leading the revenue for us. And within Asia, India and also in Europe, there were some
very difficult regions where Toyota were using these markets to polish our products. But now
these regions are seeing an increase in revenue. So we're very well balanced in terms of regions.
And so all of Toyota is making a global effort to accommodate the US tariffs. So we would like to
ask each of the regions to actually focus on their respective regions. and the businesses there.
Regarding the 3 million production capacity and our strategy vis-a-vis local production, well, 3
million units domestically is a very, very important goal for Toyota.
We have the field Gemba right next to the production facilities, which enables us to turn that cycle
very rapidly. And that would help Monozukuri or manufacturing prowess in Toyota. And so that
becomes a source of our global competitiveness, I believe.
Of course, to safeguard Monozukuri or manufacturing in Japan, we need to maintain or retain a
significant amount of domestic production because if that declines and then the supply chain will
also weaken, that could lead to or impact jobs and others. So we have to earn foreign currency
and purchase resources to run the domestic business. I think that's how we survive. And so
domestic production in Japan must be safeguarded and protected.
On the other hand, local production is important too in many ways. And I think to manufacture
where the customers are, to sell where there is a market for the product or to produce where
there's a market for the product. And also, we must develop components and parts or vehicles
that match those needs. And then that's best produced locally.
So in Japan and non-Japan areas, perhaps we can allocate the production of different models.
That sort of adjustment is done. But we don't intend to transfer something drastically from Japan
to the United States or overseas to Japan. We're not discussing such drastic measures. We will
continue as we have in the past.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. It is now time to close the session.
Thank you very much for being with us today. Please excuse the presenters.
With this, we would like to conclude TMC's FY2026 Q2 financial results briefing. Thank you very
much.
[END]