Q3 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q3 2025 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode, and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) A
recording of the conference call including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly
after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Ms.`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, madam.
`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sharon. Good morning, and good afternoon everyone, and welcome to our Q3 2025
earnings call. The information presented today contains forward-looking statements that involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. These may cause actual results to be
materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied
by such statements. Please refer to the company's Form 20-F on file with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission for description of some of these factors.
The discussion today is not the solicitation of a proxy, nor an offer of any kind with respect to the
securities of Avidity Biosciences or SpinCo. The parties intend to file relevant documents with the
U.S. SEC, including a proxy statement for the transactions, and a registration statement for the
spin-off. We urge you to read these materials that contain important information when they
become available.
Before we get started, I want to reiterate to our analysts, please limit yourselves to one question`Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Sloan, and thanks everybody for joining today's conference call. If you turn to
Slide 5, Novartis delivered solid sales and core operating income growth, and I think importantly
for us, important pipeline milestones through quarter three.
Sales were up 7%, core operating income was up 7% with our core margin at 39.3%. And in the
quarter we were able to deliver some important approvals including Rhapsido, our FDA approval
in CSU for our BTK inhibitor, as well as important Phase 3 results, which we'll go through in a bit
more detail, Ianalumab, Pluvicto, Kisqali's five-year data, as well as positive opinions for Scemblix,
and then also positive data that came out relatively recently on Cosentyx in PMR, and Fabhalta in
IgAN.
Now moving to Slide 6, our priority brands drove robust growth in the quarter. So I think really
while we of course are contending with our LOEs that particularly Entresto, but also Tasigna and
Promacta, what I hope we can get the focus to be on is on our strong underlying growth of our
key growth drivers. Here you can see growing 35%. Really excellent performance from Kisqali,
Kesimpta, Pluvicto, Scemblix, solid performance from Leqvio and Fabhalta. So, I think we're on a
solid track to drive growth through the coming years.
Now, moving to Slide 7, now taking each brand in turn, Kisqali grew 68% in quarter three,
outpacing the market and our CDK4/6 competition. If I could draw your attention to the center
panel, our total to brand NBRx now, as you can see, is in a market-leading position, particularly
driven by the early breast cancer launch. Our U.S. growth was up 91% in quarter three. We are the
metastatic breast cancer leader in NBRx and TRX, and in early breast cancer, our share is 63%,
and we're leading both in the overlapping populations with our competitor and the exclusive
population.
In particular, I'd say we see significant growth potential in that exclusive population, where we
estimate more than 60% of patients are currently not on a CDK4/6 inhibitor. Outside of the U.S.,
we saw 37% growth in constant currency. We are the NBC leader in NBRx and TRX share across
our key markets. Our early breast cancer indication now is approved in 56 countries, and so we'll
start to see the effect of the early breast cancer launch in the next few quarters, ex-U.S.
Now, I think as a good indicator of what we see as possible outside the United States, our
Germany NBRx share is already at 77%, and I think that helps demonstrate the kind of power that
we have to drive Kisqali's utilization and enable women to prevent breast cancer recurrence
across the globe. I'll close by just reminding you we have a Category 1 NCCN guideline support as
the only preferred CDK4/6 inhibitor with the highest score in early breast cancer and metastatic
breast cancer.
Now, moving to Slide 8, I just wanted to say a word about Kisqali's five-year data, which we
showed at ESMO. There was a 28.4% reduction in the risk of recurrence in the broadest
population of early breast cancer patients that have been studied. You can see here the data is
very consistent across tumor stage 2 or stage 3 in node-negative patients and node-positive
patients.
I'd also note that our OS data, while still maturing, has reached a hazard ratio of 0.8, and we see
a narrowing confidence interval, as you can see here in the third bullet, just a little bit above one
on the upper bound of the confidence interval, so a clear trend favoring Kisqali. The safety is
consistent. We also had some notable important trends in the data continue to demonstrate a
reduction in distant recurrence, so distant metastases, which is excellent to see. So we'll continueNow, moving to Slide 9, Kesimpta grew 44% in quarter three, and this was primarily demand-
driven growth. Particularly in the United States, U.S., we had 45% growth in Q3. Robust TRx growth
outpacing both the MS and B-cell markets. We have broad first-line access now, almost 80% of
the patients receiving Kesimpta are first-line or first switch.
Outside of the U.S., we had 43% growth, and we're the leader in NBRx share in eight out of the
10 major markets that we participate in. And we see a significant opportunity now looking ahead
for Kesimpta outside of the U.S., where approximately 70% of disease-modifying treated patients
are not currently being treated with a B-cell therapy.
So as we continue to get that B-cell class up with Kesimpta having leading share in many markets,
we see the opportunity to drive dynamic growth ex-U.S. We did present some additional data at
ECTRIMS that show the benefit of Kesimpta. I think I'd highlight that 90% of naive patients
receiving Kesimpta showed no evidence of disease activity at seven years, really demonstrating
the durability of the response to this medicine.
Now moving to Slide 10. Pluvicto grew 45% in constant currencies in quarter three. That's really
momentum driven off of the pre-taxane castrate-resistant prostate cancer approval which we
recently achieved. The U.S. growth is driven, so the Q3 sales in the U.S. were up 53%, driven by
new patient starts increasing to 60% versus prior year. 60% of our new patients in the pre-taxane
setting are -- with market share already surpassing chemotherapy. So really driven now by the
pre-taxane launch.
The key enablers to sustain our growth now in the U.S. is really to drive community adoption. We
have 60% of our TRx in the community. We have nine out of 10 patients within 30 miles of a
treating site, so over 730 sites. We believe that we need to get to around 900 sites to also
support the HSPC indications. So we're well on our way.
Our rollout of the pre-filled syringe is really positive, around 70% of sites using the pre-filled
syringe already. And outside of the U.S., the rollout continues. We see good growth in the post-
taxane setting in Europe, Canada, and Brazil. We also received a Japan approval, and expect a
China approval in quarter four. So all on track for Pluvicto to reach its peak sales potential.
And moving to Slide 11, we presented last week the PSMAddition data ,where we demonstrated
that Pluvicto plus standard of care reduced the risk of progression or death for standard of care
alone by 28%. The primary end point was met, clinically meaningful 28% reduction in these
patients with a compelling P-value. A clear positive trend in OS with a hazard ratio of 0.84. And
that's even with crossover, so I think that really demonstrates we're having the intended effect.
The time to progression to castrate-resistant prostate cancer was delayed, which demonstrates
we are achieving disease control, and overall the Pluvicto tolerability profile was consistent with
the Phase 3 trials PSMA4 envisioned. So we would see global regulatory submissions in quarter
four of this year.
So moving to Slide 12, Leqvio was up 54% in the quarter, on track for over a $1 billion in sales in
the year. In the U.S., we're up 45%, outpacing the advanced lipid lowering market. We had solid
TRx gains of 44% for its prior year. And our key focus is particularly in part B accounts, and
accounts that have a high interest, of course, in using the buy-and-bill Leqvio model to drive more
depth in those accounts, particularly as we've now evolved our field model to better support
those accounts.
Outside of the U.S., we see a continued strong performance, 63% growth, driven by a number of
markets, particularly China out of pocket, but we also see strong uptake in Japan, strong uptakein the Middle East, and the Gulf countries. So all of that taken together, I think, really portends well
for Leqvio in the medium to long term.
We did achieve some important regulatory and clinical trial highlights. Our U.S. monotherapy label
expansion, removing the statin prerequisite in the primary prevention population was added to
the label to be different. Data was presented at ESC, which showed Leqvio helps patients get to
goal faster. I'd also note that our pediatric submissions are on track, which, of course, supports
our longer term LOE profile.
Now, moving to Slide 13, Scemblix grew 95% in constant currencies in quarter three. It's on track
to be the most prescribed TKI by NBRx in the U.S. Focusing on the middle panel, you can see that
our all line of therapy, NBRx, has now reached 39%, and is steadily climbing, built off of that first
line approval. In first line specifically, we've reached 22% share. So we're now the approaching
NBRx leadership in first line. We already are the NBRx leader in second line and third line plus with
52% and 53% share respectively.
Outside of the U.S., our focus currently is on the third line plus setting where we have 68% share.
We do have the early line now approved in 26 countries, including China and Japan, and a
positive CHMP recommendation from October. So we would expect now to start to see our
ability to reach patients in the first line setting picking up outside of the United States. As an
indicator of that, you can see here a strong launch momentum in Japan. First line share already up
to 18%, second line at 25%. So we continue to be very optimistic about the outlook for Scemblix.
Now, moving to Slide 14. Now, Cosentyx had a mixed quarter. Our growth was impacted by a one-
time effect in quarter three, which I'll go through in a moment. But most importantly, we remain
on track for mid-single-digit growth in full year 2025, and are confident in the peak sales of the
brand. So you can see that in constant currencies, our growth was down 1%. In U.S. dollars, we're
more or less flat.
Now, when you remove the one-time RD adjustment of $74 million, our global sales growth was
around 4% in constant currencies. In the U.S., when we adjust for that one-time RD, our growth
goes from plus 1% to plus 9%. Cosentyx continues to be the number one prescribed IL-17 across
indications.
In HS, now we see a stabilization of the performance, 52% share in naive, and 50% overall. So
when the competitor came in, we did see a dip in that share, but that's not stabilized. And we are
better able now to manage patients alongside physicians to achieve step-up dosing rather than
switching off with Cosentyx. I think that'll be important. And so we can really turn our focus to
market expansion in HS with the stable share that we've been able to achieve.
Outside of the U.S., we were down 3% in constant currencies, but this again was driven by a one-
time price effect in the prior year. Importantly, we saw 4% volume growth, and we're the leading
originator biologic in Europe and China.
So overall, I think the key message is we're confident in the $8 billion peak sales potential. We
expect continued market growth in our core indications and rollout of the recent launches in HS
and IV. But I think also importantly, we did achieve a positive Phase 3 readout in polymyalgia
rheumatica. It's the second most common inflammatory disease in adults over 50. An estimated
800,000 patients in the U.S., 1 million patients in Europe have the condition.
So this is a market that's on par with the HS market when you think about the size of the
segment. We have global regulatory submissions planned in the first half of 2026, and we're
working to accelerate them as well, and really hope to drive rapid uptake in PMR. We believe thedata is compelling. We demonstrated, as you saw in the press release, a positive, clinically
meaningful primary endpoint, and we also hit all of the secondary endpoints. So we're looking
forward to presenting that data and taking this launch forward.
Now moving to Slide 15. Our renal portfolio continues to grain traction in the U.S. We had a
positive Fabhalta EGFR data, really the first oral therapy to generate such compelling EGFR data.
So looking forward to presenting that. We see steady growth in the U.S. Our IgAN portfolio grew
98% versus a market growth of 23%. Our NBRx share is now 18%, climbing steadily. We see
strong uptake as the first approved therapy in C3G.
Outside of the U.S., we're beginning to get the key approvals, particularly in China, where there's
a large market for IgAN therapies. And turning to the Phase 3 APPLAUSE-IgAN study, we saw
statistically significant clinically meaningful improvement in EGFR slope versus placebo. It's the
longest renal function data for IgAN to date. And so, we're excited to present that data at a
future meeting, and this data should support a full approval, traditional approval with FDA.
Now, moving to Slide 16, Rhapsido was approved by FDA as the only oral-targeted BTK inhibitor
for CSU. I think many of you know the medicine well, it's something we're quite excited about. It's
indicated for the treatment in adult patients who remain symptomatic despite antihistamine
treatment, and we estimate that patient population to be around 400,000 patients uncontrolled,
out of 1.5 million treated patients. We achieved a clean safety profile with this medicine, no boxed
warning, no contraindications, no requirements for routine lab or liver monitoring; oral
administration, 25 milligrams twice daily with or without food. It's a really good profile for these
patients.
I would want to highlight it as well, we're very excited to have a medicine with rapid onset in a
highly symptomatic condition. These patients have to deal with itch, loss of sleep, discomfort.
And so if you can have a medicine that has a really rapid efficacy benefit, that's really, I think,
something that could drive rapid uptake. Our initial patient physician feedback is excellent, and
we're already seeing a steady increase in start forms. Our goal will be to improve the access
environment for the drug as fast as possible, and then we would expect to see rapid uptake over
the course of next year.
And then lastly, in both EU and China, we've completed our submissions, and our Japan
submission is slated for also later this year.
Then moving to the next slide, in Ianalumab, we announced our positive Phase 3 studies earlier in
the quarter. Yesterday, we released our top-line data. The full data set will be presented soon, I
think tomorrow, and then our Analyst Day to discuss this data, as well as the Rhapsido data, as
well as other immunology data, including our CAR-T therapy platform for immunology, Immune
reset platform will be on Thursday. So I hope you'll be able to join that, and we'll give you a lot
more detail on the secondary endpoints, on post-hoc endpoints, on biopsy data, et cetera.
But here, just on the top-line, the Phase 3 endpoint was met in both studies, statistically
significant improvement in ESSDAI. I do want to highlight here, there's a lot of focus, a lot of
reports on the aggregate ESSDAI from a patient standpoint and a physician standpoint. What
matters is where the individual patients are and how much we're able to improve their relative
disease, and also what is the starting point for the ESSDAI score. So the fact that we've achieved
two positive Phase 3 trials, I think, will really enable us to roll this out to patients, and then as
patients see the symptom benefit given their profile, they'll hopefully be able to get the benefits
and stay on the medicine. We had consistent numerical endpoints, improvements in thesecondary endpoint, a favorable safety profile, and as I mentioned, the data will be provided
shortly. So regulatory submissions are on track for the first half of '26.
Then moving to Slide 18, overall, I think a strong innovation year for the company. You can see all
the various milestones that we've reached. Also, we've been, I think, the leading player in the
sector in terms of deals, bringing in medicines at all stages from preclinical to Phase 1 to late-
stage assets, also continuing to bolster our technology platform. So we'll look forward to giving
you a full innovation update and technology update at Meet the Management in November.
So with that, let me hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon, everybody. As usual, I will take you
through the financial results now for the third quarter, the first nine months, and the full year
guidance. And as always, unless otherwise noted, all growth rates are presented in constant
currencies.
So if we go to our Slide 20, you see a summary of the financial performance. In the third quarter,
net sales grew 7% versus prior year. Core operating income was also up 7%. In the U.S., we had
some negative growth to net true ups, first time since the year. Prior, we had mostly positive. But
they were mainly related to Medicaid Part D redesign, which was new for the industry this year,
based on invoices for prior periods, mainly quarter two.
And excluding these true ups, the underlying growth would have been 9% on the top-line and 11%
on the bottom line. As the priority brands and launches continue to offset the increasing generic
erosions, mainly for Entresto, Promacta and Tasigna, for market share in the U.S. Our core margin
was 39.3% in Q3, and core EPS came in at $2.25, reflecting a 10% increase, and free cash flow
totaled $6.2 billion. For the first nine months, obviously, as we had less generic erosion, net sales
grew 11%, co-operating income 18%, and the core margin expanded 250 basis points to reach
41.2%, and with core EPS at $6.94, up 21%. Free cash flow reached after nine months already $16
billion, growing 26% in U.S. dollars for its prior year.
Moving to next slide. Speaking of free cash flow, up '26, as I mentioned, already close to actually
prior year, full year $16 billion after nine months. So it really shows continued strong conversion
from profits to cash flow. And of course, cash flow remains a strategic priority as it increases
further our ability to convert strong core operating income growth and robust free cash flow, and
gives us the capacity to reinvest in our business organically, pursue value creating bolt-ons like the
proposed acquisition of Avidity, and return attractive capital levels to our shareholders through
growing dividends and share repurchases.
Speaking of capital allocation, let's go to the next page. It's really unchanged, and again, based
on very strong free cash flow, we really can optimise both the significant investment in the
business to drive top and pipeline, and returning capital to our shareholders at attractive levels.
In the first nine months, aside from Avidity, we have executed multiple bolt-on M&As, smaller in
size, but still very important, which strengthen our key platforms and pipeline for our four
therapeutic areas. And of course, we also continue to invest our internal R&D engine.
On the capital return side, we successfully completed our up to $15 billion share buyback
programme early July and have launched a new up to $10 billion buyback programme, targeted
for completion by the end of 2027. We also have distributed $7.8 billion in dividends during the
first half of this year as part of our annual dividend.Turning to the next slide, we reaffirm our full year guidance, we expect high single-digit growth in
net sales and low teens growth in core operating income, even after accounting for negative
growth in net true-ups in the third quarter. And to complete our outlook, we now anticipate the
core net financial expenses is slightly higher at $1.1 billion, before we had $1.0 billion, a bit higher
hedging costs, but overall nothing dramatic, and the core tax rate continues to be in this range of
16% to 16.5%, so far in the first three quarters at 16.2%.
Now let's move to the next slide. So usually we don't provide so much level of quarterly guidance,
so it's quarters are a bit more volatile than the full year usually. But given that we have U.S.
generics entry in the middle of the year for three of our brands, of course the biggest being
Entresto, but also Promacta, and Tasigna, were of course blockbusters, it results in very different
quality dynamic this and next year.
And so as a reminder, in quarter four of last year, we benefited from significant positive growth in
net adjustments, which added back then about 3 points of growth, so it makes for a very high
prior year base. Adjusting for these one-timers, we expect quarter four underlying growth to be
low single-digit on the top-line and mid single-digit on the bottom line, reflecting the increasing
generic erosion from a full year impact of Entresto US generics, but better obviously than what
we expect to report, including the prior year across the net adjustments.
We will provide full year guidance for 2026, of course, next quarter with the full year results, but
you can imagine it will be a year of two halves. The first half of 2026 will be depressed due to the
impact of generics with still a high prior year base, but we expect to emerge much stronger in the
second half, but much more on that as we go, as we report our full year results early February.
Now let's move to our currency estimate, impact of currencies, should currencies remain where
they are basically late October, then we expect a full year in 2025, impact of zero to 1% on net
sales, and minus 2% points on core op inc, you see also the quarter and we roll this forward to
'26.
So in '26, we would expect with these exchange rates, a slight positive 1 percentage point on net
sales, and basically no material impact on core operating income. And as you know, we publish
this on a monthly basis as it is quite difficult to forecast this from the outside in, and we hope you
find it helpful.
And then lastly, I hope you were able to join our presentation on the proposed acquisition of
Avidity yesterday, if not, I would encourage you to listen to the replay. And adding Avidity, as we
mentioned yesterday, raises our '24 to '29 sales average growth rate from 5% to 6%. But of
course, even more importantly, further supports our mid-single digit growth over the long-term
with main impacts of course, in the 2030s and beyond. And it brings of course, these near-term
product launches, two with multi $1 billion blockbuster potential with LOEs in the 2040s, and no
IRA impact.
Now, we also mentioned yesterday that we do expect some short-term core margin dilution,
given Phase 3 strides are basically now starting to run, up and running shortly in the range of 1 to
2 percentage points for the next three years. But we are confident that we return to the 40%
margin, which we already achieved this year, odds we will return back to that in 2029. And please
make sure that you also model this 1 to 2 points' core margin dilution as you finalize your 2026
models for us.
This deal of course, overall is expected to deliver very strong sales and profits contributions, post
-- starting in '29, and then even more, and therefore driving significant shareholder value with aThat's all I had for now, and handing back to Vas.
`Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great, thank you, Harry. So moving to Slide 28. In summary, solid sales and core operating income
growth in the quarter despite generic headwinds. So I think we're navigating that well with strong
underlying performance of our priority brands, which is reflecting strong execution, a strong
pipeline progress -- we delivered strong pipeline progress in the quarter, and we also reaffirm
our 2025 guidance to remain highly confident in our mid to long-term growth, which is further
bolstered by our proposed acquisition of Avidity, not just through the end of the decade, but into
the next decade and beyond.
Want to just quickly remind you as well, we have our immunology pipeline update on October 30,
and our Meet Novartis Management on November 19 and 20 in person in London.
So thank you again, and we'll open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take the first question. And the question comes
from `Matthew Weston, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you. I hope you can hear me. It's a question about policy, Vas, and we've seen now two
companies do deals with the White House around Medicaid and tariffs. And I wondered from your
perspective, how much you felt we could see the industry do a cookie cutter of those deals, or
whether there are meaningfully greater challenges for some companies, and when we should
expect something from Novartis?
And if Harry, I can steal, I guess, an extension of the same question. Can you walk us through
CapEx over the next five years, given the investments that you've announced in the U.S., and how
we should think about modeling that as part of cashflow?
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew. So I think from an industry-wide perspective, I think the pharma industry's
view is that the proposed negotiations or proposed actions are not going to address the
underlying issues here, which of course we believe are PBMs, 340B, and importantly, perhaps
most importantly, G7 countries and related countries outside the United States properly
rewarding innovation, and properly assessing the appropriate price for innovation.
That said, I think as you point out there, I think now three companies that have reached
agreements with the administration. I'd say Novartis has -- I can't speak to what other companies
are doing. We've been in conversations with the administration since the beginning of the year, as
we've had the various turns in these discussions, and I'd say we're meeting with the
administration weekly to look at what are the best solutions we can come up with.
It is important to note that the President was very clear on the four parameters, and I think those
are the four parameters that are in discussion, and we'll have to see in the coming weeks andtowards the end of the year if we can come to a proposed approach that makes sense for all
involved. And in terms of CapEx, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Matthew. I think as we mentioned when we also introduced the $23 billion over the five years'
commitment, we made it clear that the majority is actually not CapEx, the majority is R&D OpEx,
where we have the choice to invest in the U.S. or anywhere else in the world, and we choose of
course to have a strong commitment also for R&D in the U.S.
And then there's a portion, yes, it's CapEx, but it's actually part of our overall worldwide financing
plan, also for -- and we choose basically to incremental to invest in the U.S., to build up there our
manufacturing base to supply the U.S., from the U.S, instead of further expanding, for example,
European sites.
So from that standpoint, overall I don't expect a significant or meaningful CapEx increase. We are
always in this range of 2.5% to 3% of sales, actually quite a low end of the industry, given our very
focused and efficient manufacturing setup. And it's obvious there can be annual fluctuations, but
nothing meaningful.
Also, we have further opportunities in cash flow and inventory, they're usually on the high side.
We keep that as a bit of a buffer in certain times. So overall, in short, I would not expect a
significant CapEx increase, and I would expect free cash flow to grow roughly in line with core
operating income growth.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thanks, Harry.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas Exane from BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas Exane `
Yes, thanks. `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas Exane, BNP. Only one, so I'll keep it topical, for Vas. Just on the market
reaction to that ACR abstract, I think you've alluded to it being disappointment, and you perhaps
sharing a different view. So just pushing you on, do you think the market's appreciation of the
dataset will improve once we see the full details tomorrow? And just could you remind us, I'm
sorry to get technical, of the 12 domains that make up the ESSDAI index, which ones are seen as
the most important to patients and physicians? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks. Thanks, Peter. I mean, I think for us, the most important thing is that we make a
compelling proposition to patients and physicians. And then if we deliver a strong launch, then I
think obviously the markets will do what the markets will do, but presumably will follow.
I think we will present detailed data on Thursday. I think that will help at least understand wherepracticing physicians and patients don't measure on ESSDAI. They're actually looking for
symptomatic benefits in things like fatigue, in salivary flow, in activities of daily living. I think looking
at the global assessment of physicians, and how they see patients benefiting is going to be really
important for this launch. It's a highly variable disease, so a lot of this will depend on finding those
groups of patients that have a significant benefit. And I think important for these patients as well
is to feel like they don't need the same level of steroids that they typically are using, which can be
hugely disruptive for their lives. Sleep is another topic as well.
So we'll present that information, but I think we feel confident that there is a high willingness,
even from the physicians we're talking to now in Chicago, a high interest and high willingness to
make this option available for patients. And assuming we can make patients materially feel better
versus the current standard of care, which is frankly just high-dose steroids, we expect to be able
to drive significant growth from this medicine. Thank you.
Q - `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas Exane `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities from TD Cowen. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities `
Oh, thank you so much. It seems like there may be a subtle change in the messaging on
Cosentyx and HS. While Novartis grew overall market share quarter-over-quarter, on Slide 12 of
the Q2 deck, Novartis noted continued HS market growth, and in the Q3 slide deck, that was not
stated explicitly. It's clear Novartis has been playing defense on share, but with that now
stabilized, is the point that you need to grow the market, and it's not growing at the pace that
you expected? So, is that the contour of the market? This would seem to be a factor in whether
Novartis grows earnings in 2026, and when Harry was talking about 2026, he didn't say that
specifically. So, thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Steve. So, what I can say is that we feel confident that our share has stabilized after
the competitor entry. I think we have not seen the market growth that we had originally hoped for.
Though we -- there's clearly a lot of patients who can benefit from biologic therapy with HS. We
continue to see this as a $3 to $5 billion plus market, but it's clearly going to take longer for that
market to develop. And so, I think we probably did not do the careful analysis that you did on our
slides, and I'll look to our IR team to do that more carefully in the future. But I think your point is
absolutely on that we need to see -- we need to grow this market, and that's what really both
companies should really be focused on and get more patients on these therapies.
Now with respect to earnings, we don't comment on 2026, we're focused on clearing out 2025.
And so once we get there in January, we can provide you our outlook. I would say that I think -- I
would focus much more on the dynamic growth you saw in the quarter on Kisqali, Pluvicto,
Scemblix, Kesimpta, all of which to my eyes were ahead of consensus, and I think that's where INext question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Sheila Tan from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Shirley Chen, Barclays `
Hi, thank you so much for taking my question. Can I ask about Pluvicto? So congrats on a great
quarter. Could you please help frame where you are in the launch curve for pre-taxane new label?
And how do you expect the inflection in 4Q and also next year?
Can you remind us your peak sale ambition of this drug, and when do you expect Pluvicto to
reach at the full potential within the PSMA4 population, and also potentially PSMAddition
population? And also in Addition, I think you previously mentioned a few challenges for
commercialization such as reimbursement, educational staffing and referral networks, and how
do you find where you are tackling these challenges? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks Sheila. So for Pluvicto overall, I think we're on the steep part of the curve right now.
We see, as you saw, very strong growth in quarter three. We would expect very solid growth in
quarter four. It's important to note in quarter four, we always have a slowdown in the Thanksgiving
and Christmas holidays. So we in effect lose two to three weeks because of those holidays simply
because patients don't want to "have a nuclear medicine", radioactive medicine that prevents
them from being around children or family members, so for a period of time. So it's important to
note that, but that said, we do expect continued strong performance in quarter four.
And then going into next year, we would expect solid growth, but I think as always with these
launches, good growth and maybe not the same levels of growth you're seeing in quarter three
and quarter four, kind of an S-shaped curve. And then our plan would be to bring on the HSPC
indication, which will then propel us, we believe to the $5 billion peak sales that we've guided to.
So we fully are confident on that. We see high levels of now receptivity. And that I think brings me
to your point on the structural challenges, which I think we've successfully tackled now. With the
PSMA VISION launch, we struggled to get into the community in a way that was scaled. Now
through years of effort by our U.S. commercial team, we've successfully, as I noted, have over
700 prescribing clinics across the country. Nine out of 10 patients are very close to a center that
can provide Pluvicto.
We're adding centers just to be on the safe side. We've done careful mapping to know the
referral pathways. Physicians are much more comfortable now using the PFS, pre-filled syringe,
and dealing with some of the other logistics associated with radioligands therapy. So we're in a
very good spot in that sense. And that's what gives us confidence that the pre-taxane launch can
propel us into the $3 billion plus range, and then the HSPC launch will propel us into the $5 billion
plus range, and will be where we expect.
We continue in the, as well, in the oligometastatic setting as well to go earlier. We also have a
number of Phase 4 studies including in the in the mCRPC setting in combination with ARPIs to
give physicians even more options. So we're doing all of the work as well to fully build out the
data package to maximize this medicine.
I think while I'm on Pluvicto, I think all of that builds the base for our radioligand therapy platformadvancing in the clinic. And now as we bring those forward, we have that infrastructure built in the
U.S. and now increasingly Japan, China, and other markets to make those other launches
successful.
So I think all on the right track. It was a very important element for us to strategically solve. And in
my view, we have solved the challenge of rolling out radioligand therapy in the United States.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A question on Rhapsido. Could you
maybe share with us how you see the ramp-up of the product as you have a clean safety profile,
convenient administration, and you have any feedback from the street, even though it's still early
days? And any thoughts for the situation in Europe, the adoption, knowing that the product will be
compared with much cheaper drugs? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you, Florent. So, we're in the early stages of the launch. Right now, our focus is on
sampling through patient start forms, getting through patient start forms, and negotiating with
payers to ensure broad access in the early part of next year. I think once we get to the early part
of next year, we get that base up through sampling in this initial phase, we would then start to
expect a more rapid uptake through Q2 forward next year, where I think there will be the
opportunity then to really drive uptake.
We would expect initial uptake to be in patients who are not responding to biologic. But then our
goal very much is to be positioned pre-biologic. That's really where the opportunity is for this
medicine. That's going to be our long-term focus in the U.S. and really around the world.
I think in Europe, you raised an important point. I mean, a lot of this will come down to our payer
negotiation. And I think in light of the current situation in the U.S., it will be absolutely our goal to
hold the line and ensure that Rhapsido is appropriately reimbursed for the innovation it's bringing,
and not have it be compared to old generic drugs, but really compared to what it is, a peerless
oral twice-a-day option for patients that really need a rapid onset of action. And we're hopeful
that European payers will realize that, and then appropriately reward it. And then we'll be willing
to be patient to achieve that. But then I think once we get access, all of our indications, there's a
lot of enthusiasm in both the allergist and the derm community for a safe oral option, and we
should see rapid uptake there as well.
So I think overall, very excited about the medicine. As you know, we're progressing as well in
CINDU. We would expect that readout next year. We're progressing in food allergy. We're
progressing in HS. So we have a number of opportunities now ahead of us as well for this
medicine. Next question.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein `
Thank you very much.Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Hello, thank you for taking the question. I've got a follow up on Ianalumab please. So one
question we've had is that, obviously the slide suggests in NEPTUNUS-1, that statistical
significance was only achieved in the last two blocks of data. Was that just because of when the
tests were run, or is that sort of what you're expecting as well in terms of when you're planning
the study?
And a second quick one on Ianalumab as well, hopefully not to pre-empt tomorrow or Thursday,
but you talk about the secondary endpoints in fatigue and salivary flow being more important, but
the secondary endpoints were not statistically significant. So again, was this a case of hierarchical
testing or anything else? How can you show that when the drug hopefully is approved, and you
talk to physicians about the data? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, absolutely. I mean, I think the end point here is that 52 weeks. And so I think we were trying
to indicate all of the time points to reach nominal significance, but given that end point, the goal
here is 52 weeks, and both studies achieve the pre-specified primary end point at 52 weeks in
the independent analyses, and in the pooled analysis. So no issues there. And so we feel from a
regulatory standpoint, 48 weeks, excuse me, at 48 weeks approved the standard. So I think you
can see here on Slide 17, 48 weeks was hit in both trials.
And then, separate from that, there is hierarchical testing here, as often as the case. And so, if
one of the secondaries are hit, even if they hit from a nominal standpoint, and lower on the
hierarchy, it's no longer valid from a pure statistical hierarchy standpoint. It could be nominally
statistically significant, but wouldn't reach the threshold from a regulatory standpoint. That said, I
mean, I think as I've tried to articulate, there's the regulatory standpoint here. And in a disease
that's never had an approved drug, that's really what our patients and physicians looking for. And
we've really tried to understand, once we hopefully can get the regulatory approval, then what
do we need to educate physicians and patients on.
So, you'll hear more about that on Thursday, but our team has done a range of analyses to look
at secondary outcomes, look at post-hoc outcomes, look at also biopsies, and really try to
demonstrate that you're seeing the benefits that patients want.
I, myself, have spent time talking to patients with Sjogren's, and I think what really matters to
them is quality of life metrics, and very specific quality of life metrics that varies patient to patient.
So, I don't think that, for them, that the ESSDAI score is going to make the difference. It's going to
be whether or not their symptoms are getting better, and they can live their daily life day in and
day out better.
So, thanks very much, James. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, J P Morgan from
J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.Q - `Richard Vosser, J P Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. One on Kesimpta, please. Just whether you're seeing any
impact in the U.S. from the Ocrevus subcutaneous launch. Doesn't seem like it, but just wondering
what you're seeing here, and linked to that, there's some discussion from you about your new
formulation. Just wondering on details of treatment interval, whether this could be a new BLA,
and how this could protect from potential biosimilars down the line. Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Richard. So, on the Ocrevus sub-q, we don't see an impact to date, as you can see in
our overall performance. We're holding share in a growing market. I think the overall market
growth for multiple sclerosis drugs has been solid. Within that, the B-cell class continues to
steadily increase, with a bigger opportunity outside of the U.S., but still we see the opportunity. I
think 25% of patients in the U.S., give or take, are still not on B-cell therapies, they could be.
And so we're really benefiting from the market growth. We are doing a lot of work now to get
better at targeting physicians that we think would be more amenable to a patient self-
administered administration, rather than the various other options available. But I think that,
overall, this is a growing market where the medicine is holding its share, performing really well.
It's all volume-driven growth.
From a lifecycle management standpoint, we are advancing our q-two-month formulation, and so
we'll keep you updated as we progress, but that's something that the trial is currently unrolling.
And then we're exploring other options. There's no details I can get into at this point to get into
longer intervals as well, potentially with novel technologies. And I think as those progress, and if
there is the opportunity to get those launched before a biosimilar entry, that's something that
we're highly, highly focused on, absolutely. But I think it's premature to comment on that at this
point.
Next question, operator?
Sure. Sure.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Thibault Boutherin, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Thibault Boutherin, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thank you. Just a question on abelacimab, the injectable factor 11 acquired with Anthos. I think
we are getting the first Phase 3 data in Acib next year. This is for patients at high risk of bleeding
and for whom oral anticoagulants is not adequate. Can you just sort of frame the opportunity in
terms of size, and are you looking to potentially go into a broader patient population with this
asset?
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Thibault. So this is the, as you note, the antibody that we acquired back from Anthos,
it is originally a Novartis-originated antibody, so we know it quite well. As you note, the study next
year will be in patients who are ineligible for DOACs, NOACs, and so the opportunity here is for
these patients, which is a reasonable sizable patient population, to provide them a significantI think the opportunity here, the size of the opportunity we believe is multi $1 billion, but the scale
of that multi $1 billion dollar opportunity will really depend on how the oral Phase 3 program from
one of our competitors performs. I mean, clearly, if that oral medicine, which is an all comers, in a
very large study, if that is unsuccessful, then we would have a very significant potential with our
medicine.
I think with an oral and an antibody, we'll be much more than focused on these more refractory
patients, and the opportunity won't be quite as large, but I think in either case, it'll be a multi $1
billion dollar asset we can bring into our cardiovascular portfolio, and yes, we're quite excited
about it.
Very good. Thank you, Thibault. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Michael Leuchten, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, Jefferies `
Thank you very much. If I could please go back to Cosentyx. Could you tell us please what your
pricing assumptions, the net pricing assumptions are for the U.S. into the fourth quarter? Do you
expect any drag? And just trying to understand the increase in step-up dosing comment on your
slides around HS, the 25% utilization. Could you put that into context? What was that maybe at
the half of the year and how has that developed? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Michael. So on Cosentyx pricing, we don't expect any shifts going into quarter four.
And I'd say overall, we expect stable growth to nets [ph] as well going into next year. It's a
relatively mature brand, but also with multiple new indications, and a solid payer positions. I think
we should be stable on that front.
We are also monitoring the impact of the Part D redesign. Most of the impacts we've seen on
Part D redesign have actually been on Entresto earlier in the year, and then I think that will fade
away now as generics enter.
On HS, this really referred to the fact that early on with the competitor launch, what we were
seeing is with patients who were on the monthly dosing, if they weren't seeing the effect, that
their physicians weren't seeing the effect that they hoped for, the effect was wearing off, they
were switching rather than updosing to Cosentyx every two weeks.
So now we see about 25% of patients on Cosentyx moving up to that every other week dosing,
and that's something we'd like to get even higher over time because I think that really
demonstrates patients are persisting on Cosentyx, and that's going to be important for us to
retain our greater than 50% NBRx share and then the correlating TRx share as well. So that's very
much in focus for us.
And then I'd come back again that we also just need to work on growing the market. I think if this
ends up being two competitors just trading the same group of patients, that would be a
disservice to this patient community. I think we have to get better now at reaching patients who
have either fallen out of the system or for whatever reason are being identified as biologic
appropriate patients, and get them on therapy.Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Simon Baker, Rothschild & Co Redburn.
Please go ahead.
Q - Analyst
I hope you can hear me okay. This is Keith Dean [ph] speaking on behalf of Simon Baker. So I have
one quick question. Thanks for taking my question by the way. So one quick question on the
rebate adjustment. Is there anything you can call out other than the Cosentyx? And also, did any
drug benefit from the rebate adjustment in the Q3? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you for the question. I'll hand that to Harry.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thank you for the question. So overall, of course, when you see the amount that is prior
period is roughly $180 million. You'll see that this has about this one and a half -- almost or
rounding them to 7% to 9%, if you will, effect on the quarter. And Cosentyx is a big piece of it.
Another big piece of it is Entresto actually, where patients got quicker into the catastrophic as
part of the Medicare Part D auto redesign. And of course, that part really should go away and
then the rest will kind of goes away. And there have been some smaller elements including like
really going back to '24 with some inflation penalty part, but the two biggest ones are Cosentyx
and Entresto.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Harry. So Sharon, next question.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now go to the next question. And your next question
comes from the line of `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC from HSBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Hi, good afternoon. Just trying to understand this, the margin cadence over 2026, I know you're
not giving a 2026 guidance at the moment, but very helpfully you said it will be a year of two
halves. So given what you know about part D now and how generics are coming and what sort of
operational gearing you're getting on your -- Kesimpta, Pluvicto, the drugs which are growing. If
you were not cutting the cost, would the cadence be a lot more steeper? And what have your
actions done to offset that impact? So what is the mix impact versus self-help, if you could help us
quantify, as well as the seasonality of part D cadence? Because this year you've done a prior
period adjustment, that might not be in the next year because you have some accrual history
now. So you'll base your quarterly accruals on the evidence you have. So it would really help us
model out first half, second half for '26. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Harry?A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Yes, thank you, Rajesh. Very thoughtful question, of course.
And so in our business, with our mix, we usually do not have Medicare kind of related different
close to net levels, quarter-by-quarter, other than when we have a close to net true-up, right? So
when channel mix changes, when a product goes quickly into the catastrophic, and those, if they
are, I mean, there are always some deviations, right? We have over 20 billion RDs in U.S.
But when these are significant or meaningful, then we let you know, right, how much it is, like in
quarter four of last year, it was 3 points of growth, which is now impacting as a high base. Quarter
one was 2 points to the positive, and quarter three is now 2 points to the negative. So we show
you that stuff. But that's up, that's basically true-ups. The underlying is not changing quality
dynamics for us.
So, for next year, you will have a very high base Q1, right, with the 2 points of growth that we got
from the -- and you will have a relatively low base in Q3 from the 2 negative points this year. And
other than that, it's all about launch uptake and generic erosion of the three main products.
Maybe long winded, but I hope it was addressing your question.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And we'll do our best at the full year earnings as well to provide more guidance on how best to
think about the full year 2026. Next question, Sharon.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Thank you. Appreciate that. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you. It's just a quick follow-up, actually, to one of the prior questions. Harry, Kesimpta looks
like a very strong quarter in Q3 that looks somewhat off-trend. And I'm just making sure that as
we go into Q4, we aren't going to learn that it was lumpy one way versus the other. Can you just
confirm that was underlying operational growth?
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, it was mainly underlying operation growth. A little bit of inventory, but not much.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Just a strong global volume, I think, in both US and ex-US for this matter.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Exactly. Yes.Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Perfect. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from Simon Baker, Rothschild & Co., Redburn. Please go
ahead.
Q - Analyst
Hi. Just one quick question. On the Ianalumab in Sjogren's disease, so we observed the placebo
response in the Sjogren trial tend to be plateau at week 48. So why did it reverse in the first trial
of those two Phase 3 trials? The Phase 3 trial is called NEPTUNUS-1. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think the question is regarding the placebo response. I mean, I think, look, I think these
were both adequately controlled, well-designed studies, global studies. This is just a highly
variable disease. And so you're going to see some variability in how the placebo responds. We
look at background therapy as well. It's very comparable across the studies. And so also versus
normal standard of care. You do see as well that the Q-month data looks much better than the Q-
3 month data, but you do see as well the dose response that we would expect. So I think that's
all positive.
And so we'll have our experts on the line on Thursday. So if you want to get into more detail, and
they'll also be able to go through some of the background on the study design and baseline
characteristics. But I think, obviously, I can't comment more until the full data is presented.
Next question, Sharon?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities from TD Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities `
Thank you for the follow-up. Novartis raised the long-term revenue guidance yesterday, half of
which was attributed to the existing business. Of the half attributed to the existing business, how
much is due to currently marketed products and how much is due to higher sites for the pipeline
agents? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Steve. I think we can provide better midterm guidance on that in, at Meet the Management,
but most of that is inline brands. Obviously, you see the strong performance of Kisqali, Cosentyx,
Pluvicto, Scemblix, I think solid performance on Leqvio. And there is probably some in there of
what we expect will be a strong launch for Remibrutinib, so Rhapsido, and the label expansion for
Pluvicto. Yes, I think that's roughly the breakdown, more or less.I think any other pipeline assets we would expect have limited ramp in this period, just given how
long it takes to ramp up these launches, when you think out to '29. And we will provide guidance
as well out to 2030, as I said yesterday, at Meet the Management, as well as update our peak
sales guidance on our various brands, where appropriate.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, Sharon?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Just a quick one for me. I mean, you may have already answered it, Harry, but again,
it's going back to the Cosentyx, the rebate adjustment. Which prior periods does that relate to?
Is that a Q1, Q2 this year, or is that a 2024 thing? I'm just trying to think in terms of modeling for
next year, as we look at Cosentyx. Is there a slight headwind from where there was a higher price
that you realize in Q1 and Q2 that then reversed out in Q3? And also what does that mean sort of
going forward into 2026? Again, I appreciate there is going to be other dynamics with PMR and
HS, but just wanted to clarify that from a modeling perspective. Thank you.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, James. It's mainly quarter two this year, most of it, but the quarter three underlying,
that's why we gave you the quarter three underlying, is what the underlying is, already taking into
account if such channel mix would continue to prevail. So from that standpoint, that gives you a
good basis for future modeling.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, Harry, if I'm correct, if you net out the prior period upside versus this -- that the really the
year-to-date is relatively clean.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Across the whole portfolio.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Across the whole company, the year-to-date is a clean read.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Because in quarter one we had a 2% upside, now we have almost 2% downside. It's a bit different
brand by brand, but that's why we're giving you on the brand that has most of it. And is like
Entresto is deteriorating of course, but this one of course is a brand that will stay along with us.
That's why we gave you the underlying which gives you the real underlying at the moment for
quarter three.Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Got it, thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Sharon, next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Sachin Jain, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
Hi there, thanks for my questions. So firstly just a clarification of margins for Harry, so three key
margins for a little bit below street, I guess partly on gross margin which is sort of first impact
from generics. So why don't you just talk about gross margin, EBIT margin as we think about a full
year of Entresto impacting '26? My single question is can you maintain margin stable next year
through the full year of generics before we model the underlying Avidity dilution? And then given
the time, I might just take an additional one on pipeline for Vas, you flagged a good uptake in
IgAN, you have the Phase 3 for the APRIL BAFF next year, so I wonder if you could just talk to your
excitement on that and differentiation and what's the competitive landscape. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great, Harry.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So on the margins, of course, when you have a product like a small molecule high-priced
products like the three going off patent especially Entresto being so big, there's a slight negative
mix effect. Now Kisqali is also a super high margin product, and growing significantly. So that's
partly offsetting. But we have also significant productivity efforts especially in our manufacturing
supply chain. So as I mentioned before there will be as we go forward some pressures on the
gross margin.
On the other hand, we do also expect that our SG&A becomes even more efficient as we go
forward offsetting that.
Now for the next couple of years, this year we will be around 40%. At quarter four is usually a bit
lower historically, we have been in the first nine months at 41%, so Q4 bring that in the range of
around 40%, and then for the next two or three years we said because of the Avidity proposed
acquisition 1 to 2 margin points down from the 40%, and returning to 40% in 2029. So with that
basically -- but it's driven by development investments. And overall to close that long answer on a
short question basically the gross-margin headwinds I do expect to be offset by SG&A
productivity.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then Sachin, was your second question around the anti-APRIL antibody? I didn't catch it.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `Yes. So in the introduction you talked about the strength of the existing IgAN launches, but I
wonder if you could touch on the APRIL BAFF with data next year and how that wraps out your
portfolio.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, absolutely. So first to note ours is an anti-APRIL antibody, our competitors are anti-APRIL
BAFF. And so I think one question of course will be to see the profile of those two drugs and
does BAFF add anything, and also differences in safety profile.
But I would say overall, we expect to see proteinuria in the range, we hope, of what the others
have seen. And certainly our Phase 2 data, final Phase 2 data, indicated we have very strong
proteinuria reductions. We will be third to market, in all likelihood.
And so for us, it's really going to come down to a portfolio opportunity that we bring to patients,
physicians, payers, or closely to physicians' offices and payers. Because we'll have the opportunity
to have an endothelium antagonist with Vanrafia, we have the factor B inhibitor with Iptacopan,
and then with Fabhalta, and then we have the anti-APRIL antibody. And bringing that entire
solution set to the clinic, and then also the opportunity for us to run combination studies. So we're
already now evaluating what would be the right combination studies to run, generate that
combination data, so that nephrologists know what would be the right combination agents to
optimize care for these patients. So these are all the opportunities I think we're looking at. But it's
going to be important for us to think through those, given that, at least in the anti-APRIL space,
we'll likely be third to market.
Next question, Sharon? I think it's the last question, if I'm not mistaken.
Operator
Thank you. It is your final question for today. It comes from the line of `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities from TD
Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities `
Oh, thank you so much. Given the proof-of-concept established by the CANTOS trial eight years
ago, what new evidence compelled Novartis to go down the same pathway and acquire
Tourmaline at this time? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Vas Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Good question, Steve. So I think we clearly understand that IL-1 beta and hitting the
inflammasome has a powerful effect on cardiovascular risk reduction. But in that trial where we
did an all-comer study of patients who had a prior event without, I think, focusing down, you saw
the challenge of having a significant CBRR.
Now, IL-6 has the opportunity to be to a little bit further downstream of IL-1 beta. And the idea
here is to get within the first few months to max six months to a year after an event. When, if
patients are at that point in time with an elevated hs-CRP, the knocking down that CRP can lead to
a significant -- we believe, the opportunity exists to lead to a significant impact on cardiovascular
risk.
So I think it's really, we've learned from the CANTOS study, we understand a lot more about the
biology based on that, and we think by targeting now prospectively patients right after an event
who are at elevated CRP levels as a marker of elevated inflammation, we can then have a muchmore compelling cardiovascular risk reduction than the kind of 14%-15% that we saw in the
CANTOS study.
Now, we do have a competitor ahead of us, but a lot of our focus is designing, we think, with our
expertise, a study that can really maximize the opportunity for the Tourmaline asset, the anti-IL-6.
All right, well, thank you all very much for attending two calls in two days, but we have another call
coming day after tomorrow. So we hope you will attend that as well to learn more about our
immunology portfolio. We'll talk about Rhapsido, we'll talk about our Ianalumab data, and
importantly also talk about our immune reset portfolio, which I think is quite exciting.
So thank you again for your interest in the company, and we look forward to catching up soon.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.