Q3 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome, and thank you for joining the SAP Q3
2025 Financial Results Conference Call. Throughout today's recorded presentation, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode. The presentation will be followed by a question-and-
answer session. (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
`Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Good evening, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us. With me today are CEO,
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; and CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer.
On this call, we will discuss SAP's third quarter '25 results. You can find the deck supplementing
this call, as well as our quarterly statement on our Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to differ materially. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may
be found in our filings with the SEC, including but not limited to the risk factors section of our
annual report on Form 20-F for 2024.
Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS, and growth rates and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS, year-on-year at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures
we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.And with that, over to you, Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alexandra, and a warm welcome to everyone on the line. We are already entering the
final stretch of 2025, and I'm very happy to report SAP had a great Q3 and keeps delivering.
Our cloud revenue growth and current cloud backlog performance have been strong. Business in
the U.S. public sector has started to pick up again. Overall, we are gaining market share as our
customers are adopting solutions across the entire business suite, including business data cloud
and AI at an accelerated pace. A recent IDC study shows that we grew 10 percentage points
faster than the rest of the market in 2024.
Looking ahead, the pipeline for Q4 and 2026 looks great as we unlocked a few key industries
where business had stalled in half year one. As a result, we can confirm with high confidence our
ambition to accelerate total revenue growth through 2027. And I'm very excited about that AI is
becoming the key enabler of our growth. So, first, let's have a closer look at the quarter's financial
results and our customer wins.
In Q3, cloud revenue was 27%. Cloud revenue has consistently grown more than 25% for five
quarters in a row. And it was coming with a very solid cloud cost margin of about 75% in Q3. Total
revenue growth came in, again, double digits at 11%. Current cloud backlog increased 27%, a
strong performance considering that WalkMe acquisition is now in the base. And once again, our
bottom line performance was excellent. Free cash flow increased by 5% while operating profit
came in 19% higher, despite negative impacts of around EUR200 million, which Dominik will
explain happily in a moment.
The customer stories from Q3 add color to the picture. Alphabet, Ericsson, Lufthansa, the
Magnum Ice Cream Company, STIHL, Syngenta Crop Protection, Tapestry. These companies are
known around the world. They are industry leaders with iconic brands. And they all opted for the
RISE journey in Q3. But their business transformation journey doesn't stop at Cloud ERP.
Ericsson, Lufthansa, Magnum, Syngenta, STIHL, and Tapestry also adopted SAP Business Data
Cloud and business AI and expanded the SAP footprint with our business suite LOB solutions.
Alphabet, for its part, selected BDC and we deepened our relationship with plans to further
support our business AI roadmap with Google Gemini.
The picture is the same wherever you look. In addition to their new RISE journeys in Q3, we won
JYSK for CX, Jack Wolfskin for supply chain, Takeda for Ariba and supply chain. And all three
customers also signed up for Business Data Cloud. Panasonic, for their part, signed up for RISE in
2022, and now in Q3, selected our complete human capital management portfolio.
As you already know from the analyst conference at Sapphire, we see the potential to convert
EUR1 of on-premise revenue into EUR5 and more of cloud revenue by transforming the end-to-
end value chain of our customers through RISE with SAP. About half of that potential is upselling
and cross-selling.
The conclusion from these stories is very clear. Our strategy works. Land and expand works. And
the AI-infused integrated business suite is the way forward for customers as well as for SAP. As
for the growth journey, our strategy is playing out very nicely as well. Among those that embarked
on their growth journeys were the AI companies Perplexity, Konecta, and Kodiak AI. It is great to
see that many fast-growing tech companies built their unique growth stories with SAP's business
suite.Next to the Q3 wins, also Bending Spoons, Top and Soleil for example. They all embrace our
growth journey because of the following reasons. They will be able to go live in a matter of
weeks. They can scale our platform from small to big without any effort in over 60 countries
growing towards the IPO and beyond. And they will never have to think about upgrades again
and can instead invest their IT money in continuous innovation like AI.
Finally, let's have a look at our software and cloud offering. I already mentioned that business in
the U.S. public sector is picking up again. SAP NS2 was awarded a major framework contract with
the U.S. government. And we are very happy that we have already won first orders under this
framework in Q3. For example, the United States Army signed a contract enabling the migration
from on-premise systems to the cloud.
In the U.S. and worldwide, more and more customers are approaching us with their software
needs. While some companies pursue high growth in the infrastructure business, we are sticking
to our strategy. SAP will not build giga factories. Instead, we provide software and cloud solutions
together with strong cloud infrastructure partners. This allows us to offer customers the best of
the best across the technology stack. And it allows us to reach great global coverage at a healthy
margin without any long-term bets.
Together with AWS, we recently launched software offerings for India and Europe. And with
OpenAI, we launched a partnership providing German public sector customers software access
to one of the world's leading LLM. On top of that, we just introduced a game-changing new
software and cloud offering for highly regulated customers and governments. We can now offer
our entire cloud portfolio in a customer data center at a highly competitive cost.
The offering delivers the highest levels of data, operational, technical, and legal sovereignty while
customers have access to all SAP cloud solutions, BTP, BTC, and AI. We see tremendous
customer interest in this software and cloud on-site offering and have built already strong
pipeline for 2025 and 2026 within a few weeks.
With regard to AI, our strategy is playing out as well. For high-value AI cases in B2B, a large
language module alone is not sufficient. To make it simple, no apps, no data, no AI. Only the
combination of LLMs with business process and contextual data results in high-value AI use cases.
That is our strategy. That is where SAP is better than anyone else. And that is where we innovate
and invest.
We are proud of releasing more and more AI agents. But it is not the number that counts. It is
about how we automate and infuse intelligence across end-to-end business processes. It is about
orchestrating AI agents across the company's value chain, something only SAP can do. That's why
we are introducing AI assistance in Joule, orchestrating our agents to support specific personas
and functions in a company.
Imagine, for example, an AI assistant for supply chain management, supporting a planner to
reroute goods, optimize inventories, or connect new suppliers seamlessly. Think of these
assistants as team lead who brings just the right technical agents into the conversation from a
pool of hundreds. For example, bringing in a maintenance planner agent as part of the production
planning process and supporting the planner to reduce downtimes of important assets
significantly, increasing the productivity of the planner by up to 40%.
We are currently working with customers across all industries and functions to co-develop and
refine these assistants to maximize the business value. We are also releasing the Joule
Everywhere and Everything functionality to customers in Q4. Thanks to our partnership withPerplexity, our AI copilot can now work with both SAP and non-SAP data. And it can provide high-
quality answers to very complex business questions.
Finally, our latest research publication on SAP's foundation module for tabular data will be a
spotlight paper at one of the world's top AI research conferences this year. We are at the cutting
edge of research and turning now these insights into tangible benefits for our customers.
In Q4, we are going to sign RISE deals initially planned in 2026 because customers want to start
now using SAP business AI. And even more important for us at SAP, AI adoption is going up
significantly because end users are consuming SAP business AI at a higher frequency and across
a broader scope.
Some examples. Johnson Controls saves 3,000 hours annually by automating routine IT system
monitoring with our IT agent. Bosch saves 2,500 hours per customer service center per year with
our services agent. JK Cement from India has cut the time for purchase-related processes by
50% with our sourcing agent.
But we build use cases not just for the horizontal layer. Super happy to report that we are going in
the meantime deep into the industry verticals as well. To give you two examples, Wartsila, a
manufacturing company is infusing SAP Business AI in their mission-critical spare part quotation
process. This results in a significantly higher process accuracy and a much better customer and
supplier experience.
And with CHS, an agriculture company, we are enabling traders to create commodity contracts in
natural language with SAP Joule, with estimated efficiency gains in the tens of thousands of
dollars per trader, as well as improved data integrity and accuracy.
Looking at the data layer and our business data cloud offering, we are also pushing ahead. For
example, with the hundreds of data products released to date and new capabilities for intelligent
apps, such as people intelligence and revenue intelligence. We are also strengthening our
position in data with our new offering, SAP Business Data Cloud Connect, a serial copy service to
connect BDC with partner data platforms, such as Databricks and also Google BigQuery.
Customers receive live and secure access to Google's AI ecosystem and Gemini modules,
among many other things. More exciting data partnerships will soon follow at our TechEd event in
November.
Internally at SAP, we are also dialing down on AI adoption. Acting as customer CRO for our own
solutions, we boost productivity. Some of the greatest internal levels are in development, go to
market, customer support, pricing, and process simplification in the corporate functions. For
example, in the deal approval process. SAP runs SAP, that is the guiding principle. As for Joule,
our AI copilot answers thousands of employee questions every day, from simple tasks, such as
travel bookings, to complex quoting support at quarter end. We believe that simplification and
internal AI adoption will enable our headcount to grow significantly below revenue.
Let me now summarize. SAP is in a very good shape. We closed a great Q3 and are ready for Q4,
thanks to a very healthy pipeline. At the same time, we are building a strong position for SAP to
be a leader in the AI race, with apps, data, and AI as the winning formula. As 2025 is coming to a
close, we are already looking ahead to the next chapter. Our product strategy and business
model are spot on. This gives us resilience across regions and industries. AI will be the key
enabler for accelerating double-digit total revenue growth through 2027. Given all that and more,
I'm very much looking forward to the future.
And with that, I'm now handing it over to Dominik. Dominik?`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Christian, and thank you, all for joining us this evening. As Christian mentioned, SAP
delivered yet another great quarter with performance that underscores the momentum we see
across the business despite the persistent challenges and uncertainties in the broader
macroeconomic backdrop.
In Q3, we saw strong execution on current cloud backlog and cloud revenue. This coupled with
the healthy growth in operating profit reflects the safeguards we put in place and the discipline
with which we are managing the business. The cloud ERP suite delivered its 15th consecutive
quarter with growth exceeding 30%, highlighting the progress we are making in helping
customers migrate to the cloud and validating the strength of our strategy.
These achievements show that SAP remains a bellwether for digital transformation, reflecting the
trust customers place in our mission-critical solutions and positioning us for durable growth in the
years ahead.
Now, more details around our financial highlights. Current cloud backlog exceeded EUR18.8 billion,
up 27%. Cloud revenue also increased 27%, driven once again by the strong performance of
cloud ERP suite. It delivered 31% growth in Q3, demonstrating the unabated momentum of strong
market share gains in what by now represents 87% of cloud revenues and actually more than
100% of the year-over-year increase in cloud revenues.
The magnitude of these market share gains becomes even more evident if adjusted from 31%
cloud ERP suite growth at constant currencies to the reporting currency of our competitors, which
is obviously the U.S. dollar.
During the quarter, we also closed our acquisition of SmartRecruiters. This tuck-in strengthens our
capabilities and talent acquisition and supports our long-term strategy. Despite our solid
operating momentum in Q3, please keep in mind that as we progress through the remainder of
2025, we need to stay mindful of the broader environment.
We were also awarded a major U.S. public sector framework agreement in Q3 with the United
States Army, which we expect will expand our access to future opportunities in this market, giving
us confidence that this industry is seeing early signs of improving engagement.
Software licenses revenue decreased by 42% in Q3. Finally, total revenue came in at EUR9.1
billion, up 11%, and the share of more predictable revenue rose by 2 percentage points to 87%.
Now, a brief look at our regional performance. In Q3, SAP's cloud revenue performance was
particularly strong in APJ and EMEA and solid in the Americas region. Brazil, France, Germany,
India, Italy, and South Korea all had outstanding performance, while Japan, Spain, and the U.S.
were particularly strong.
Now moving down the income statement. Our non-IFRS cloud gross margin for the quarter
expanded by 1.1 percentage points to 75.1%, driving cloud gross profit up by 28%. IFRS operating
profit increased 12% to EUR2.5 billion in the quarter. In the third quarter, non-IFRS operating profit
was up 19% to EUR2.6 billion. Both IFRS and non-IFRS operating profit growth were negatively
impacted by approximately EUR100 million as a result of a change in case law that affected SAP's
other tax litigation provisions, as well as more than EUR100 million related to the workforce
transformation. In light of the timing for some of the measures related to this program, we
anticipate another EUR100 million of expenses to be recognized in the fourth quarter of 2025.I'll now touch on our results below the operating line. The IFRS effective tax rate in Q3 was 25.3%
and the non-IFRS tax rate was 27.9%. The IFRS effective tax rate is lower than the non-IFRS
effective tax rate due to the tax benefits from tax-exempt income. Operating cash flow in the
third quarter was up by 7% to EUR1.5 billion and free cash flow increased by 5% to EUR1.3 billion.
The increase was mainly attributable to the higher profitability and to lower restructuring
payments, which were partially offset by higher tax payments.
Finally, basic IFRS earnings per share increased to EUR1.72 and non-IFRS earnings per share
increased to EUR1.59.
Now on to our outlook. As you've seen in today's release, we now expect to reach the range of
our cloud revenue outlook for fiscal year 2025 towards its lower end due to delayed bookings in
the first half of the year, as already highlighted in July. We've seen this dynamic of back-end
loaded bookings again in Q3, especially in sectors such as industrial manufacturing and public
sector. Nonetheless, we're now expecting to land towards the upper end of our operating profit
outlook range and forecast free cash flow to exceed the previous target of EUR8 billion.
We continue to expect CCB growth to slightly decrease in 2025. While by now we have a quite
precise view as to where we will end up within our guided range for cloud revenues for fiscal year
2025, given that Q4 is by far the biggest quarter in terms of bookings seasonality, we still have a
larger range of potential outcomes for CCB growth.
Nonetheless, our robust pipeline of opportunities and our strong competitive momentum give us
confidence to reiterate our ambition to accelerate total revenue growth through 2027. This
performance underscores the strengths of our portfolio, operational discipline, as well as our
ability to deliver results. For additional details, please refer to our quarterly statement published
earlier today on our Investor Relations website.
And thank you. And now we will be happy to take your questions.
`Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Dominik. Again, we will take your questions now. Again, I would kindly remind you to
only ask one question when prompted. Operator, please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions). The first question is from the line of `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited with JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Toby Ogg, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited `
Yes. Hi. Good evening and thanks for the question. Just on the demand backdrop, Christian. I
know you talked previously about elongated sales cycles across various sectors, U.S. public sector
and manufacturing. Could you just give us an update on what you're seeing now with respect to
these sectors? Obviously, there's the shutdown at the moment, but it sounds like you're seeing
some positive early signs.
And then just related on the backlog, Dominik, I think you'd said at a recent conference that 4
percentage points of decline would be a bit more than a slight decline, which is the guidance. So,is it right for us to interpret that as a 25% exit rate being unlikely as that would be 4 points
deceleration from the 29% that you did in 2024? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, happy to take your question. And first, I mean, on macro and deal cycles and just to give
you also a bit insights into our Q4 pipe. I mean, first, what is not only very positive is that we have
the coverage. Q4 is by far, as you know, our biggest bookings quarter and coverage looks really
good.
We even see in the U.S. public sector, I mean, you saw the adjusted cloud revenue guidance. I
mean, when you're going to miss in the U.S. public sector and also in a few deals in the
manufacturing space, somehow the bookings in half year one, it's hard to catch up. Now, the
good piece is looking at our Q4 pipeline, I find a lot of these deals now coming back. And so that
gives us a lot of confidence for Q4.
The good piece is also when you look at the pattern of the pipeline and not even Q4, we had
also a broader look on rolling for quarter. The good piece is I always ask the question, are we
connected to the C-level? Is it only about IT and end of maintenance or is there high value? And I
can tell you in over 90% of the deals, we are talking to the C-level, we are talking about cost
optimization with AI, especially in the chemical industries, but this is not about do we do it or do
we not do it. It's actually a done deal that they want to do it, but it's also about AI being the
leading factor for doing this deal and not only to be more safe in the cloud.
Second, when we also then look at the Q4 pipeline, what is also very promising is that when we
have seen in the past this kind of pipeline coverage, we could definitely see that when we are
executing it in the right way, when we are connected to the C-level, when there is a compelling
business case, I mean, then it's all about execution. It's in our hands, nothing else, no macro, no
elongated sales cycles.
And then last but not least, when it comes to the CCB, I mean, I definitely don't see a '25 Q4 can
have a big swing. And so I would be rather a bit more optimistic when we are talking about the
CCB and the exit rate for this year, given the momentum in our business.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Mohammed Moawalla with Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you. Hi, Christian. Hi, Dominik. Just for me, again, on the sort of the delay you're
seeing in terms of the backlog and the back-end loaded nature of the deals falling into kind of
cloud revenue, how should we think of that? Because the Q4 implies a kind of significant step
down. But when we think of cloud revenue going into next year, do you still expect to be around
that sort of mid-20s level, plus or minus?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And I mean, Q4 is, of course, a very important quarter, as you know, for the cloud revenue
guidance for next year. We have the pipeline. We have the coverage. We have the industry back,
which we were waiting for. And we have the AI in order to build these compelling business cases.
And so, yes, we are definitely very confident that we can not only deliver a good Q4, but also pickup some of the stalled pipeline in half year one now that we were able to open up these markets
for SAP again.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll move to our next question from Michael Briest with UBS.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, UBS Limited `
Yes. Good evening. Thanks. Christian, I know that you announced some of the details around the
SAP ERP transition option for those customers who need longer to move over to S4 in the cloud.
Can you say something about the uptake? And I think you've done quite a smart thing on pricing
by flagging increases if people don't sign by the year end. What sort of uptake do you expect
and does this give you sort of visibility on this hopefully small number of customers who will adopt
this option?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Happy to do so, Michael. I mean, first, when you look at the pipe and analyzing the pipe and
how we also deliver now the increase in pipeline over the last, I would say, three to four months,
there was positive momentum. I mean, first, yes, it's this transitioning option. But also, Michael,
don't overestimate the potential. I mean, yes, we have a lot of large customers and they cannot
transform all ERPs businesses at the same time.
I mentioned in the past a few examples. And for these customers, it's great. And yes, then
indeed, it's helping to move those customers also more faster to the cloud, to secure their
landscape, to give them also the security on the support, on the cyber side, on the SLAs around
the operations of the system.
Even more important, I would say, is when I saw now in the last three months what really moved
the pipeline was around software and cloud. And I know, others playing a big bet on
infrastructure, SAP rather focusing on the value creation at the upper part of the stack. But that
doesn't mean that we are not competitive in the software and cloud. I mean, we are opening up
in every country in the world almost now new options with our infrastructure partners, on software
and cloud and especially the public sector, be it in MENA, be it even in Germany. So, not only the
U.S., Australia is now really, really coming along.
And what I also mentioned in my statement, that we can put the whole stack into a customer data
center and can operate it in a SaaS like environment. And that was for many customers in these
industries really great news. And we see now high interest. And I would say we can even sign the
first deals in Q4 if everything works out well.
So, yes, the transition option helped. Software helped and then, as I mentioned, AI. And look, I
know you're always looking for numbers on AI. And, I'm also not want to play into hype on, oh, we
deliver now 800 agents in the cloud. I mean, what do 800 agents do? Which salesperson can
actually sell 800 technical agents? For me, it's more important when we talk to a Wartsila when
we talk now to the Q4 opportunities, there's, for example, a big hardware store market, one of
the largest in the world. They want to build AI use cases, giving them a marketing agent to do
more targeted marketing campaigns, to understand better the consumer trends.So, we are delivering an agent on supply chain. All these agents having all the technical agents
underneath to cover the complete supply chain, no. But the customers are seeing, hey, this is
what we want. We don't want to get sold on 800 technical agents. We need actually, here's a
business process. Here's a persona. SAP, tell me, what does it do for this persona? How much
productivity and how much more intelligence do I get, for example, in the supply chain planning
process?
And that is working. And again, and even if then there is 20%, 30% of the technical agents
missing underneath to orchestrate an end-to-end process, then we say, hey, come on. I mean,
this is also what SAP is strong about. We come to you and we develop together standard agents
to really make sure that you can cover this very important business capability. And that is, in the
meantime, really the key reason for many of our deals, especially now in Q4.
And that last piece also reduces the slippage risk, because you not only talk about cloud, you not
only talk about end of maintenance, you have a compelling business reason. And that, again,
gives me also a good confidence that we will also see a good pipeline conversion, because a
strong pipeline alone doesn't help. You need to close it. But there I see also the wide maturity in
the pipeline in Q4.
Operator
The next question is from Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark L. Moerdler, Bernstein Societe Generale Group `
Thank you so much for taking my question. And great to hear in terms of the strength of what we
should see at the back half of the year. I've got a higher level question I'd like to ask. SAP is taking
the approach through business cloud in terms of allowing the data to flow out to systems like
Databricks and Google for analytics and the rest. How should we think about the effect that could
have on the future economics for SAP, for AI, analytics, et cetera? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Mike, a very good question, because I know there are also, other people asking similar
questions around BDC. I mean, first, and Mike, I want to also make this very clear, because some
of the discussions around the role of SaaS, the role of the apps in the future, I don't see one AI
use case in the B2B world where you can only deliver high value with an LLM module.
I mean, no matter if it's about predictive asset management, we are talking -- we are working on
autonomous payrolls, faster quarter ends, strategic workforce in HR, it's always about the
combination of the two. So, you always need the data. You always need high-quality data, by the
way. I mean, you wouldn't imagine some of the adoption challenges customers sometimes have
when they're coming to us that, Christian, I have here a lot of custom agents, but they are really
constantly delivering the wrong prediction.
I mean, okay, because again, the agent cannot do magic if the underlying data structure is not
harmonized. And if the agent, technical agent, again, to my point you can deliver 800 agents
when they don't talk to each other, when they don't understand the business context, they are
lost. And now to BDC and the data side of the house. So, BDC is, in the meantime, involved in
every AI RISE deal we are doing. And because customers are getting, okay, I get it, these data
products give me the harmonization, the data quality I need to deliver the high-value AI use cases
on top.Now, to your question, what does this mean when we are now closing partnerships with Google
and Databricks? First, it's all about better data processing. Yes, zero data copy is the value. The
data products, the semantics, the business context, the orchestration of the agents in a business
context is all with SAP. I mean, obviously you can use some of the data products for data
engineering on the Databricks role, but everything what happens on AI agents in the context of
the SAP applications, in the context of the business processes, in the context of enterprise
analytics, that is SAP.
And of course we will never ever give up this crown jewel because this is clearly what SAP is best
at. And so we are getting the best of both worlds. And I mean, as I mentioned, it's not only
Google, there are a few more now coming in Q4, which again is even also relevant already now in
the Q4 pipeline for BDC because customers are loving what they see and that SAP is really
having now this open data platform, which is again, also very essential for almost every AI use
case we are building together with our customers.
Operator
The next question comes from Adam Wood with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam D. Wood, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited `
Hi, good evening, again, thanks for taking the question. I was wondering if we could come back to
the confidence on the revenue acceleration for next year. I think you're suggesting we probably
end the year on CCB of '26, but obviously there is a little bit more risk of the range on that one.
And it sounds like the cloud guide suggests that we exit Q4, maybe around 25% growth.
I think on my calcs, you need around 24% growth on cloud revenues next year to get that
revenue acceleration. And if you're exiting at 25%, it doesn't feel like there's a huge amount of
room for error on that to be able to hit that revenue acceleration. Could you maybe just give us a
few more insights into why that confidence is there? Is it the other revenues within cloud that
you're more optimistic on? Is it that CCB just starts to slow dramatically less because you're
starting to close some of the deals that slipped earlier in this year? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I'm happy to do so. I mean, look, adjusted cloud revenue guidance is just a result of some of the
stalled pipeline we had in half year one. And yes, I mean, mathematically, you know how it works.
It's hard to pick up, even if you close these deals in August, September, some of the deals we
started to close in September, you cannot make up six months of revenue you couldn't realize.
Now, for the revenue run rate next year, obviously, I mean, they are fully in the backlog. So, there
are actually now everything what we can pick up from half year one, plus having a good pipeline,
a strong pipeline for Q4 helps. And on the CCB side, as I said before, I mean, yes. I mean, look,
there's always a big swing. But I would be, again, also a bit more optimistic than the 25%. We
have the pipeline to do more. And again, yes, there is a big swing. There are large deals, but they
are very mature.
So, I'm more confident than the 25%. And with that, obviously, that also sets us up for the total
revenue acceleration in 2026. And given the high recurring revenue share we are having in the
meantime, I mean, we can say this with confidence that if we now deliver on our strong pipeline in
Q4, that it's very likely that you're also going to see this guidance for SAP next year.
Dominik?A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
No, just adding that probably the delta between CCB growth exiting '25 and cloud revenues
should be not more than 1 percentage point because the famous transactional business is really
currently still languishing, I would say. And the biggest reason for that, actually -- the
overwhelming reason for that being lower travel activity for Concur on bookings. And that's,
again, very much related to the shutdown, which is actually resulting in lower travel activity on
government officials.
Operator
The next question comes from Ben Castillo with BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben Castillo Bernaus, Exane BNP Paribas UK `
Hi, good evening. Thanks very much for having me on. Question maybe for you, Dominik, on free
cash flow. Obviously, you've nudged up the guidance for this year up to EUR8.2 billion. You're at
EUR7.2 billion through nine months this year. I guess I can't recall the last time Q4 was less than
EUR1 billion in free cash flow, excluding one-off. So, is there anything that's different this year that
we should be thinking about?
And I guess the cash conversion so far this year has been very strong. I know you've given us
some indications for next year with various headwinds, but nevertheless, just welcome any
comments on this year's free cash conversion and thoughts into next year. Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, one source is really also the phasing of the tax cash out, because we had moderate
cash tax out in H1, a little bit higher in Q3, but Q4 will be higher. Then obviously, we have to always
be cautious about the consumption of transformation credits, how much of that will be used by
the end, which can trigger some cash headwind.
So, there's nothing magic in there. It's just a myriad of smaller things that happen in the working
capital that can make that number a little bit noisy, but we sharpened the pencil as well as we
could for Q4 and come up with this number. So I think this is the best we can estimate as of today.
And yes, it's really a phasing topic within the quarter, and it's always a question of receipts and
payments of certain activities that happen at the end, which can be flipping either side of the turn.
Operator
The next question comes from `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Bank of America `
Hi, good evening, Christian and Dominik. If I can ask a question on your competitive position
versus Oracle. Do you see an incremental risk from their pivot toward infrastructure in terms of
offering? And also they mentioned you guys a number of times that their recent CMD. So, I'm
looking to get a bit of an update on where you see yourself positioning in the system?
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Look, I mean, for me, when I see the recent developments out there in the market, I know
that some of our competitors are playing the game on scaling the infrastructure training LLMs.I
mean, when I listen to our customers, and that is super important, they are super positive aroundthe value creation we are now providing to them for the end users Joule, supply chain, HR,
finance. And for us, the infrastructure is, of course, part of the stack. And when you look at
software and cloud, I mean, we can actually always offer highly competitive offerings in all parts of
the world. And so there is no need in my eyes at all to change our strategy and to suddenly start
building data centers everywhere in the world.
So, our strategy is proven and it works. And I'm deeply, deeply convinced that when we are now
looking at some of the large language modeles, I mean, our goal is not to train them, but our
goal is to use them. And many of them, like an OpenAI, you saw announcement in Germany are
now coming to SAP and say, hey, for this applied AI, I want to do business in the public sector. Can
you work with us? Can you give us the BDP? Can you give us Joule Studio to build all of these
agents? Because we need a development platform. We need to supply the icing. Now, over time,
we need to move up and deliver that.
And so we see a huge momentum. They're also working with these LLM providers in really not
only infusing them in our technical stack, but really now going to customers together and actually
deliver AI agents together. And so that is actually, for me, the absolute winning formula. And
again, it's for us super, super important to make our AI foundation world class. And we will stick to
the winning formula we had throughout the whole year and it's about the apps. They give us high-
quality data. BDC was a genius move for us, and now with the high-quality data, together with the
LLMs.We can provide more and more value to our customers, and we see it in the numbers. We
see it in the pipeline. It's working. And again, on software and cloud, we are having everything
what we need also on the infrastructure level without building those data centers.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
And maybe just from a finance or numbers point of view, first of all, indeed, infrastructure and
services is now at around 1% of our cloud revenues. Now, we're discovering that might stabilize or
even go up, but we talk about a completely different path we're taking. And on the competitive
benchmarking, I mean, when you look at the Gartner's RDCs and so forth, they all put the
numbers into U.S., dollars and don't -- I mean, at the risk of stating the obvious, euro constant
currency numbers with a strongly depreciating dollar is a different story than dollar.
If we convert our numbers in dollar, we see even higher numbers than the constant currency
numbers. So, what is a headwind for us? Namely, depreciating dollar is, of course, a tailwind for
our U.S. competitors that's the comment I tried to make in the intro statement. So, I don't quite
understand where there is any nervousness. If you see Cloud ERP Suite growing at 31% constant
currencies, which is even more in U.S., dollars because of the depreciation of the dollar. And if you
then look at the market data, a competitor data, please name us one who is actually anywhere
near that.
Operator
The next question comes from `Jackson Ader, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jackson Ader, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Great. Good evening, guys. Thanks for taking our questions. I want to just go back to the back-
end bookings that are happening either in the first half or through the quarter. I mean, I think
we've addressed the competitive dynamics, but I'm curious, Christian, you've said that you guys
want to focus a little bit on price discipline. And so I'm curious how -- whether that price discipline
is impacting the linearity of the bookings to the quarter and then how that price discipline is
actually holding up as we get closer and closer to the ends of these quarters. Thank you.A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Jack, great question. I mean, look, actually give you actually a real life example how our AI works. I
asked in the afternoon in preparation of this earnings call, Joule. It's a tool with my pipeline, with
the sentiment, with everything, what we have compared to the years before, how are we going
to end up the year? And Joule, happily enough, gave me a pretty confident answer.
And what I also got out is when you look at the pipeline, when you look at also about what we
see for next year and the business cases we have in the system, it's actually good to see that it's
not only about, again, a lift and shift of a system. It's not about training an LLM module and scale
commodity hardware. It's in many, many, I would say in the predominant number of the deals,
really about, okay, talking to the C-level, there's a cost optimization program. How can we help on
the spend side? How can we help on the automation side? How can we help on the shop floor
automation in moving more to in-time, real-time manufacturing with a better prediction of the
demand?
And that is also, of course, giving us not so much pricing pressure because this is not only the
CIO standing up and says, oh, SAP wants to get a deal done. This is the C-level saying, hey, you
are part of a business case when it comes to the transformation of the company, no matter if this
company has cost pressure or is looking into new business models with AI, that we are playing in
this game. And that is, of course, also then helping us on price protection.
As I also mentioned before on pricing, look at all of the software and cloud. I mean, this is really a
lot of engineering work, what we have done to make this happen, and now it's paying off. But
customers are willing to pay also a premium for that and because, honestly, these are highly
sophisticated capabilities. This is not only about putting an ERP system on a public cloud
infrastructure in a data center in a country. These are sometimes much higher standards which we
can fulfill, but customers, again, understand that they have to pay a premium for that.
And last but not least, our sales team knows that when they want to make the year and they want
to make their quota, there is, of course, a volume included in the quota, but we also have a
pricing element included. So, we are not just giving deals away in order to hit our number. So, it
always has to be the right mix of both of volume and pricing.
And then one piece, because Alexandra always reminds me about the questions around the
migration credits. We are not taking this lightly and we are not pushing them out every time, but
when a customer says, oh, I have now cost pressure, but I want to do this. I see the AI. I see what
RISE can do for me on the business side, but can you help me to make this -- the business case a
bit more attractive than before we discount the exit price or the point of renewal? We then, in this
case, it's very targeted and also work with this migration credits and that's also how we protect
our prices on the cloud, on the subscription side.
Operator
The next question is from Charlie Brennan with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Jefferies `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. Can I just ask a higher level question around investment
levels? I think we all want you to remain at the front of the curve with AI and leading the industry.
And I think we all understand that investment comes before revenue streams. Are you confident
that you can fund the required AI investment by reallocating R&D spend and maybe reinvestingthe efficiencies that you're driving? Or do you think there's a business case for a acceleration in
investment to guarantee that you remain a leader in this space?
And then separately, can I just ask a quick question about the support revenues? It looks like
we're finally into the stage where we're seeing an accelerating decline. That's obviously an
indication that you've got customers going live, which is very healthy. Is there anything you can say
about the total cloud backlog moving into the CCB? Does that take some of the in-quarter
pressure away to sign new deals because of that transfer of TCB into CCB? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, happy to take the first question on support revenue. Maybe, Dominik, you can help me,
but we're happy to --
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
On the support revenue, yes, I mean, it's just the acceleration we've always indicated that will
come sooner or later. And again, don't look too much at one single quarter. I think it's always a bit
noisy for whatever reasons, and there are some backs and forth on this, but the trend is clearly
towards a slight acceleration for the reasons you have highlighted yourself.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And it also speaks for the adoption of our customers in the cloud, and that the RISE journey
now continues and even accelerates for many customers, we signed a few years back.
Now, on AI, so when you look at our R&D portfolio, and I will now talk first about Philipp and our AI
foundation. When you would ask Philipp for his budget request next year, he says, Christian, I
don't need 2,000 more AI developers. I need the best. I need the PhDs of the Berkeleys. We are
working with MIT on our knowledge graph. It's really about the quality of the people. It's not
necessarily about the quantity of the people.
And what we are doing, and you heard me saying about, our research on tabular data. I mean,
that is, for us, very important that Joule can talk not only HR and finance. I mean, I'm asking this
question this afternoon about our financial result prediction for the year. I mean, then you need --
Joule needs to correlate sales, contextual data, unstructured content with finance data. And this
is, what we are building on the AI foundation.
Now, in the lines of businesses with Muhammad, there we already did some work this year. I
mean, you have seen us. We did another slightly surgical restructuring round with -- this year,
which we ended. And now we adjusted here and there with the workforce. That was
predominantly in R&D. And what we are doing there is when you see the lift and shift in our
portfolio, we have now much less developers on sitting coding features and functions, but a really
solid shift, I would say, into AI developers, data scientists, building the predictive modules on BDC
for the intelligent apps, et cetera. And that is actually already happening. And so we will see next
year probably a further shift, but not a radical shift because a lot of that has already been done.
And overall, the investment into R&D, I mean, when there's one area where I'm always open to
invest is R&D, but I also talked about applying AI internally. And obviously, Muhammad is great in
this team applying code generation tool. So, Joule for Developer, we have GitHub, we are now
rolling out a few more. We have also our own code generation tool now as part of Joule Studio.
So, and we even see an increase of adoption of 300% for Joule for Developer only in the last
three months.And so also there, we are working on efficiency to while on the one hand side, we, of course,
have a strong development backlog. We also, of course, see the efficiencies now kicking in with
AI. And the lift and the shift in the portfolio is good. The pipeline is good. And we also find the
right resources in India, in Singapore, parts of the U.S. for also for our AI team. So, we are very
happy with the quality of the people. And again, I want to underscore for us, it's more about the
quality of the people we can onboard and hire.
Operator
The next question is from `Michael Turrin, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Turrin, Wells Fargo `
Hey, great. Thanks. Appreciate you taking the question. Dominik, you mentioned the range of
potential outcomes on 4Q CCB. It sounded like from some of Christian's comments, AI is actually
pulling RISE deals forward in some cases. So, just be curious to hear more around potential swing
factors in either direction there on that metric and any higher-level commentary you're willing to
share to help size the range of potential outcomes as you're exiting the year on the stronger
seasonal bookings quarter. Thanks very much.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, the obvious number that drives the CCB from now onwards is the net bookings are either
gross bookings and then the churn. And on both, we want to do as well as we can. And the good
thing about the CCB is that the lion share is really, if you close by the end of the quarter with a
certain kind of deployment time, you embark that in your CCB if you can do that, which is not the
case for child revenues, of course.
So, now I can really not give any more hints than have already been shared on this call. I mean, it's
just useful to, I think, remind ourselves where we started the year. We started the year at exactly
28.7. That was the 29% we jumped off. We said we're going to be slightly down, including an
effect from M&A, which back then was 1.5 percentage points roundabout, and, of course, WalkMe
and -- sorry, SmartRecruiters was kind of a slight offset. So, M&A is roundabout 1 percentage point
in that bridge.
And so if you now think where we are post Q3, it actually gives you a little bit of a feeling
between kind of what happened beginning of the year, what's there now. I would not look at any
individual quarter and read too much into this. But if you think about the kind of three quarters
that we now have under our belt and the gradient there, and then depollute that for CCB growth,
you see a little bit of a trend. And let's not forget there's still a difficult situation on the
transactional business, but that doesn't impact the CCB more heavy on the cloud revenues.
And, yes, if you put these numbers into the trajectory and then think about the type of
invulnerability about bookings, I mean, we have net bookings, it gives you actually this kind of, I'd
say, bandwidth, which the numbers need to be gravitating in and it's not too wide, actually.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And maybe just to net it up on, because I know, I mean, how important the CCB will be for
the -- at the exit of the year, also for the outlook next year. I mean, look, 25%. I mean, when I look
into the first half year, how much pipeline was stalled, I would say 25% would be probably the
most likely scenario. In the meantime, as I mentioned, the sentiment in some of these industries,
which are not unsignificant from a size perspective, has changed.So, now I would be rather disappointed on 25%, 26% would be, in my eyes, a great result. Look at
the base, look at the acquisition impact of WalkMe. And we -- I definitely see now that there is a
better pipe. And we worked hard on some of these things. So, we have it in our hands. But again,
Q4 has a big swing. It can go in all directions. But right now, if you ask me, and if you look at the
pipeline, and I've seen it many times, I would rather see 25% as a disappointment. Again, there is
a swing. But I'm now definitely more optimistic than I was three months ago when it comes to Q4,
which is by far, of course, our biggest bookings quarter we have in the year.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Deutsche Bank `
Yes. Good evening. Thanks for letting me on. Christian, I wanted to come back to this comment
that you made that you're now hoping to sign maybe some RISE deals in Q4 that were initially
planned for '26. I guess that's quite a rare comment in an industry that often sells quite large,
multi-year transformational deals that are maybe not that easy to accelerate. So, could you zoom
in a little bit more on the customer discussions you had around that and really kind of what role
your AI offering played here? And then just as a quick follow-up, you used to give the AI a touch
rate or new deals. I may have missed that, but could you share that maybe for the third quarter?
Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, look, to give you a real-life example, I was last week in Japan. Customer, the big
transformation pressure, BCG pulled us in and actually also shared with us, hey, Christian, can you
help not only on, now cloud and making sure they get rid of these painful ERP upgrades, but
really about, we're really looking for cost optimization potential. They are looking for a new
template on how to monetize their new businesses as they diversify their portfolio.
And of course, we see that you have the AI use cases here and there on process automation,
and then also on the CPQ side for more intelligent quoting and pricing. And that is a deal, for
example, which I didn't see coming. And there you see that in the meantime, it's also great that
the ecosystem pulls us in and says, hey, this is where SAP is in the meantime really, really good.
And that, of course, helps that you get such deals, again, not because of maintenance, not
because of IT. It's really about the business transformation and AI. And we have some of these
deals. Again, they need to materialize. I mean, they came now in. We have it in the pipe. They are
looking good, but we see some of them, and that is a good sign.
And then last but not least, as I also mentioned, yes, I mean, half year one, even here when we
did the Q2 earnings, I mean, back then I would also say I would have underscored the 25%, but
now in the meantime, given the sentiment what we are seeing and also, again, having the access
to the C-level, I'm definitely more optimistic than I was at the Q2 earnings.
A - `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Christian. And this concludes our call for today. Thank you, all for joining.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now concluded, and you may disconnect your
telephone. Thank you for joining, and have a pleasant day.