Q2 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, and welcome to the telephone conference of the BMW
Group for the second quarter. Today, we have here, as always, `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the
Board of Management and our CFO, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. First, Walter will take you through our financial
results. Oliver will then give you a general business update for the BMW Group. After a short
break, we will then have time for our Q&A session.
Walter, please go ahead.
`Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. After the first six months of the year, the BMW Group
remains on track to meet its full year targets for 2025. As expected, tariffs weighed significantly
on financials in the second quarter. Nevertheless, the BMW Group achieved group earnings
before tax of over EUR5.7 billion, in a group EBT margin of 8.5% in the first six months. In the
second quarter, deliveries to customers at group level increased by 0.4% year-on-year. As of
June, BMW Group global sales remained on par with last year. All electric vehicles made an
important contribution with a share of total sales of 18.3%. A share of electrified vehicles,
meaning full electric vehicles or plug-in hybrid vehicles, amounted to 26.4%.
Group earnings before tax totaled over EUR2.6 billion in the second quarter and over EUR5.7
billion after six months. This resulted in a group EBT margin of 7.7% in Q2 and 8.5% in the first half
year. The operating profit in the automotive segment reached EUR1.6 billion in Q2 and over
EUR3.6 billion after six months. This led to an automotive EBIT margin of 5.4% for the second
quarter and 6.2% for the year to the end of June, both within our full-year guidance of 5% to 7%.
Excluding the depreciation resulting from the purchase price allocation of BBA, the margin came
in at 6.5% for the second quarter and 7.3% through six months.
Let's take a look at how the automotive segment performed across key metrics. Between April
and June, deliveries of BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce vehicles to customers were on previous year's
level with over 621,000 units. We saw sales growth in all regions except China. The BMW brandgrew by 4.7%. MINI benefited from the full availability of the entire model range and reported a
significant year-on-year growth of 33.2% in the second quarter across all regions.
Retail sales in Q2 were especially strong in Europe with double-digit growth of 10.2% year-on-
year. The European order intake for BMW remained strong, with an order bank reaching well into
the fourth quarter. The US reported a growth of 1.4% in Q2. In China, retail sales levels in the first
six months of 2025 were down 15.5% compared to the previous year. However, during the
second quarter, we saw a slight sequential improvement month-by-month.
Sales of our all-electric vehicles continued to grow. In the second quarter, we delivered more than
111,000 all-electric vehicles to customers. Automotive segment revenues decreased moderately
by 8.4% to EUR29.4 billion in the second quarter. Adjusted for currency translation effects, the
decrease was 5.3%, mainly due to lower sales volume in China. Segment EBIT for the period from
April to June totaled EUR1.6 billion. The EBIT margin came in at 5.4% for the quarter, and 6.2% for
the half year. These margins include the negative effects from extra tariffs which amounted to
around 2 percentage points in the second quarter and around 1.5 percentage points in the first
six months. And we mustn't forget the effect from the BBA purchase price allocation I just
mentioned.
That brings me to my next slide to take a detailed look at the year-on-year changes in the
operational result. Automotive EBIT declined by around EUR1.1 billion compared to the second
quarter of 2024. More than half of this difference is due to the impact of tariffs, which is included
in the position, other. Changes in currency and raw material positions were neutral in Q2, but in
the second half year, we expect a headwind year-on-year, especially because of renminbi.
The net balance of volume, model mix, and pricing effects negatively impacted EBIT by EUR300
million in the second quarter compared to the previous year. Volume and model mix combined
were neutral. Pricing continues to be a headwind year-on-year, however, to a much lesser extent
than in the first quarter. Competitive pressure remains strong, especially in the Chinese market.
Here, price levels of the second half of 2024 continued into the first half year of 2025 as
expected.
Research and development expenses decreased by about EUR200 million compared to the prior
year quarter. Group R&D expenditure as of June totaled EUR4 billion, slightly below previous year.
The R&D ratio according to the German commercial code came in at 6% after six months. For the
full year, R&D expenditure will be below last year's level and it will steadily decrease over the next
years.
Selling and administrative expenses also decreased by around EUR100 million compared to the
previous year. The year-on-year headwind of EUR1.1 billion from other cost changes can mainly be
attributed to two factors. First, the higher tariffs in the US and anti-subsidy tariffs imposed by the
EU Commission on electrified vehicles from China. And second, the sales of end-of-lease
vehicles. Here, resale income was lower than in the second quarter of 2024, yet remains positive
on a portfolio basis.
Free cash flow in the automotive segment totaled about EUR1.9 billion in the second quarter.
Segment earnings before tax amounted to EUR1.6 billion, which is EUR1 billion lower than in the
previous year's quarter. The net change in working capital reduced free cash flow by around
EUR300 million.
A net effect from capital expenditure and depreciation had an impact of EUR200 million in the
second quarter. Capital expenditure for the first half year amounted to around EUR2.7 billion, asecond quarter and 4% for the first six months. After the peak in 2024, CapEx will decrease for
the full year 2025 and we expect the CapEx ratio below 6% for 2025.
Changes to provisions negatively impacted free cash flow in the second quarter by around
EUR200 million. This was mainly due to the consumption of warranty provisions. A change in the
position other of around EUR1 billion reflects the development of a set of various topics, including
accrued expenses, interest and advance payments received, income taxes and liabilities for tariff
expenses not yet paid. After the first six months, automotive segment free cash flow is on
previous year's level. It's just over EUR2.3 billion. For the full year, we are targeting a free cash
flow of over EUR5 billion.
Our strong free cash flow generation enables us to further execute our consistent shareholder
return strategy. In May of this year, the Annual General Meeting authorized the Board of
Management to buyback up to 10% of BMW AG's share capital over the next five years. Based on
this authorization, a third share repurchase program with a volume of up to EUR2 billion was
approved. It should be completed by April 30, 2027, at the latest. The first tranche of EUR750
million began in May and it will be completed no later than December 8th of this year.
Let's move on to the financial services segment. The number of new contracts concluded with
retail customers in the first half year reached almost 825,000 contracts, a slight decrease of 3%
year-on-year. This is due to the challenging situation on the Chinese market, which led to a
moderate decrease in new credit financing business. The new leasing business continued its
dynamic growth in the first six months of the year. The penetration rate for lease and loan
offerings increased by 2.5 percentage points to 43.7%. Driven by a higher average financing
amount per contract, new business volume was on previous year's level, despite the slight
decrease in new contracts.
Segment earnings amounted to just under EUR1.2 billion, a year-on-year decrease of 19.5%. This
results mainly from two topics. In addition to provisions following the receipt of a revised
operational tax assessment for prior years and the resale income of end-of-lease vehicles, which
was lower than in the second quarter of 2024, yet remains positive on a portfolio basis. The
credit loss ratio across the entire loan portfolio remained at a low rate of 0.27%.
In the motorcycle segment, deliveries decreased moderately by 8% year-on-year. Segment
revenues decreased by 2.8%, adjusted for currency translation effects that were on par with the
second quarter of 2024. Segment EBIT in the second quarter totaled EUR136 million with an EBIT
margin of 14.2%.
Ladies and gentlemen, our outlook for the full year is based on assumptions which are described
in detail in our half year report, but let me briefly mention some key factors for our business
development in 2025. In China, we have been observing increased monitoring of the automotive
market by local regulatory authorities since the last two weeks of June. This also affects
commissions payments from local banks to dealerships in connection with brokering, retail,
financial, and insurance products, payment terms to the supplier base, as well as increased
scrutiny of price competition. Dealer commissions were significantly reduced by local banks in
June, and we are closely following these developments and the potential impact on the Chinese
automotive market.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you recall, our guidance given in March included all tariffs in force as of
March 12. In our quarterly statement for Q1, we had assessed and included all tariff increases
announced as of May 7 and confirmed our original guidance based on certain assumptions. And in
today's half year report, we maintain our consistent approach and have also incorporated theeffects of all latest announcements. According to the announcement on July 27th, an agreement
between the US and the EU regarding the tariff situation is emerging. Based on published
information by the respective authorities, we expect partial reductions of the currently applicable
tariffs between the US and the EU from August 1st. Additionally, tariff negotiations across the
globe are ongoing and may result in further changes. Therefore, the expected impact from tariffs
on our full-year results can still only be estimated based on our certain assumptions.
For the full year 2025, we currently expect a burden from tariffs of around 1.25 percentage points
on the EBIT margin in the automotive segment, including mitigations. Based on our assumptions,
the full year outlook remains unchanged. That means on a group level we are targeting earnings
before tax at previous year's level. In the automotive segment, we expect a slight increase in
deliveries and an EBIT margin in a corridor between 5% and 7%. The EBIT margin in the
motorcycle segment should come in at between 5.5% and 7.5%. In the financial services segment,
we expect a return on equity in the range of 13% to 16%.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is a truly differentiated global player. This strong strategic
positioning enables us to mitigate the impact of tariffs and allows us to adapt swiftly to changing
market conditions. The BMW Group has a focused strategy and a clear plan how to effectively
navigate our operating business. As a result, we were able to provide a comprehensive guidance
for the year 2025 in March, including the impact of tariffs. And we delivered an EBIT margin within
the full-year target corridor of 5% to 7%, both in the second quarter and for half year.
At the BMW Group, we are steering our business carefully and in a consistent manner. During the
last years, we significantly invested in the future of our company in line with our long-term
planning. In 2024, both CapEx and R&D reached peak levels. Starting in 2025, we are reducing
CapEx and R&D spending as planned. Our operating costs are also decreasing compared to prior
year. Just as in Q1, this is again evident in our Q2 figures. Based on the results of the first six
months, we once again confirm our full-year targets for 2025. And we remain committed to our
long-term goals of premium, profitability and capital return to create value for all of our
stakeholders.
Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you very much, Walter. Now over to our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer, please.
`Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thanks to the strength and foresight of our strategy, our
attractive product portfolio, and our global team and operations, the BMW Group is built to
weather various conditions. And it underscores that there's not one automotive industry, there
are players with different strategic approaches. Through the first half year, our sales performance
demonstrates the appeal of our global brands and the ongoing success of our broad
technological approach.
After confirming our original guidance from our annual conference, after the first quarter results,
we remain on track with our financial targets for the year, despite ongoing tariff uncertainty and
fluctuations in the Chinese market. Unpredictability is a long-standing feature of the auto industry
and is the norm in today's business environment. What is decisive is how you deal with it, because
global success is rather predicated on your ability to anticipate developments and to respond
rationally and efficiently. That is fundamental to the BMW Group.The overall global automotive market is growing. We are always ready to profitably gain market
share wherever individual market conditions allow. As dynamics in the industry shift, we know
exactly where we are placed with our premium brands and where we can pursue opportunities,
maintaining a healthy balance of value creation and market share. Over many decades, we have
built up comprehensive and balanced network of sales, production, and supply chain operations
spanning the major regions. This makes us one of the few truly global players in the industry and
our deep roots in global markets offer us many advantages.
First, they allow us to tap into leading-edge developments in the individual markets and
understand specific customer needs. Our ties to research universities, our R&D network and IT
hubs, and our network of local tech partners enable us to leverage key competencies from
individual markets for our global products and strategy. Second, through our extensive footprint in
key markets, we remain resilient in the face of geopolitical instability, and ever-increasing
regulation. And finally, our strong ties also allow us to engage in direct discussion with key political
decision-makers who value our perspective. Here, it is not just about our individual interests, but
rather finding solutions for customers worldwide, and driving shared economic prosperity.
The BMW Group welcomes fundamental agreement between the European Union and the
United States to reduce tariffs on both sides of the Atlantic. And it's now important to quickly
finalize and implement the agreed measures. We will continue to advocate for trade between the
EU and the US not to be hindered by import tariffs. The currently agreed US tariffs also burden
European exports, affecting consumers and globally operating companies. Therefore, we urge
both sides to continue working towards market openness and in the convergence of
technological regulations.
Through our global production network and supply chains, we maintain high flexibility to respond
to fluctuations. Our production plans are attuned to market demand, allowing us to achieve
capacity utilization above the industry standards. At our largest single plant in Spartanburg, in the
United States, for example, we produce over 420,000 vehicles annually, over half of which serve
the local market and half of which we export. Across the United States, we have created
extensive value chains, as well as a competency hub for our global X Family of vehicles in
Spartanburg, which remain in high demand across the entire globe. BMW made in America and
sold to the world.
This combination of leveraging the competitive advantage of the US market in SUVs with brand's
-- BMW's brand strengths allows us to develop products which speak to customer needs in
markets worldwide. For the current financial year, our sales results continued into Q2 in line with
our expectations, as conditions continue to vary from market to market. In Q2, we saw a
sequential improvement from Q1.
Outside of China, all three of our major sales regions posted growth. Group sales in these
markets combined to grow by 6.3% with the first six months of the year. Group sales in Europe
grew overall by 10.2% in the second quarter and in Germany alone by over 10% with growth in
most markets outpacing the passenger vehicle market. Overall, the BMW brand increased its
market share in Europe.
Among the most successful BMW models were those in the business class segment. In the first
half of the year, the BMW 5 Series saw a growth of more than 40% worldwide compared to
2024. Other notable models saw success, including the BMW X2 models, which more than
doubled sales through June. With the full availability of the new MINI family, the brand grew in all
regions worldwide, including in China. In the first half of the year, more than one in three MINIs
sold was a fully electric vehicle. Rolls-Royce increased deliveries by nearly 10% in the secondquarter, driving by strong sales from the Cullinan Series II. Drive trains and model variants across
the portfolio continued to see success in Q2. BMW M sold nearly 106,000 vehicles through June,
the best ever first half year of the brand. Sales of plug-in hybrid models from the BMW brand
grew by almost 30% in the first six months.
Our BEV models continue to be a fundamental pillar of our strategy. In the second quarter, we
achieved an important milestone with the delivery of our 1.5 million all-electric vehicle. And across
the portfolio, now we offer more than 15 all-electric models. In Europe, the group's BEV share
reached 25%. With the PHEVs included, the electrified share reached nearly 40%. And across all
brands, BMW is the third best-selling BEV brand in Europe. While we are proud of our position as
a leading BEV player, we know that the world is multidimensional. To meet consumer needs,
especially in a product as complex and personal as a car, there is no single answer.
Our Q2 results show that we can serve multiple preferences simultaneously. BEVs, PHEVs, and
our M models all achieve growth. The most effective strategic approach is to use all technology
to reduce CO2 emissions overall. We remain committed to the goals of the Paris Climate
Agreement while advocating for a review of the 2030 and 2035 targets in the European Union.
To achieve these goals and create effective CO2 regulations, we must take a comprehensive
view across the entire value chain. This would consider all emissions across the entire life cycle
and not just tailpipe emissions, from the supply chain to the raw materials used in the car, the
production process, the vehicle drive, energy used to power the vehicle, and finally all the way up
to recycling.
And dependency on a single technology can be damaging to an industry. Putting all your eggs in
one basket is just poor asset allocation. Hydrogen, for example, offers European opportunity to
use our expertise and take the lead on an emerging technology that will contribute to our climate
goals. And unlike BEVs, without the need for large amounts of raw materials or battery
technology, which are not localizable at large scale in Europe.
Beyond drivetrains, there is great potential with alternative fuels. There are more than 250 million
vehicles in the EU which could now immediately contribute to climate protection. But this requires
a clear regulatory pathway and targeted investments in the ramp-up of all renewable fuels. The
HVO100 as an example, while it is already available in markets across Europe, tax schemes and
the CO2 fleet targets need to recognize this renewable fueling option to incentivize customer
adoption. This would also help in scaling an alternative fuel that has a 90% CO2 saving compared
to normal fuels and can already be accessed today. For OEMs and customers, this is also a cost-
effective way to reduce emissions in the use phase.
For Europe to maintain competitiveness and finance its future, we need to invest not only in new
technologies but also leverage our existing technologies, which can meet customer preferences
and still contribute to climate targets. For the BMW Group, we're now just five weeks away from
the next major innovation step, which our entire company has been fully focused on for many
years now; the launch of the NEUE KLASSE.
On September 5th, we will celebrate the world premiere of the all-new BMW iX3 at the IAA
Mobility here in Munich. In June, we hosted media representatives at the pre-drive event in
Miramas in Southern France. The initial feedback has been tremendous and we remain right on
time with the launch, including at our new plant in Debrecen. Construction also continues at our
battery assembly facility in Irlbach-Strasskirchen.
With the NEUE KLASSE, we are making great strides in all relevant technology fields, whether in
electrification, digital user experience, driving dynamics or sustainability. The new BMW iX3 will bea benchmark in our industry. The all-electric sixth generation powertrain will set standards in
performance and efficiency, powered by our battery cells developed in-house with 20% more
energy density, an electric range of up to 800 kilometers according to WLTP. With 400 kilowatt
maximum charging, customers will be able to add over 350 kilometers to their vehicle's range in
just 10 minutes according to WLTP and with an energy consumption of 50 kilowatt hours per 100
kilometers.
In addition, our revolutionary new iDrive will change the way the driver interacts with the car. With
the BMW iDrive, we set an industry standard more than 20 years ago. After the reveal of the all-
new Panoramic iDrive at CES in January, we are already seeing the industry follow our lead.
With the technology clusters we have developed for the NEUE KLASSE, we will scale our
advanced technologies across the portfolio. We will start in the core segment to build momentum
quickly. This is simply smart economics. By 2027, we will bring 40 new models and model updates
with the NEUE KLASSE technology and design language on the road worldwide. Our technology
cluster approach allows us to integrate market-specific features and content. In our major sales
regions, we have a variety of local solutions with leading partners. This allows us, for example, to
further enhance the digital user experience as well as automated driving functions in our
upcoming NEUE KLASSE models.
In China, for example, we are collaborating with Alibaba Banma to develop the next level of
intuitive and conversational in-car voice interaction. We will also enhance our BMW Intelligent
Personal Assistant with functionality from DeepSeek in our vehicles in China. In most other
countries, the next-gen BMW Intelligent Personal Assistant will be powered by large language
model technology from Amazon Alexa. For driving assistance systems that meet local needs and
regulations, we've also sought out partners in different geographies, always following our
philosophy in this area, smart, symbiotic, and safe.
Just two weeks ago, we announced a new partnership with Momenta, a leading Chinese ADAS
technology provider. The partnership will focus on software development and integration for
Chinese road networks, traffic conditions, and user expectations. Utilizing advanced AI algorithms
and data-driven development methods. We will launch the systems in China, starting with our
NEUE KLASSE.
In other markets, we continue to build on our already very successful partnership with Qualcomm.
These examples show how adaptive the NEUE KLASSE architecture is. With the software-defined
vehicle, we maintain competency over all systems of the car and can roll them out to markets at
the same time across the world. But we also are able to quickly integrate local tech stacks into
our own ecosystems to give consumers access to innovations and features they are used to. And
through backward integration of software solutions available for all aspects of the vehicle over
the air, we will continuously enhance the customer experience. This overall is a huge advantage
for us.
Ladies and gentlemen, our consistent strategic approach and continued success is not a
coincidence, but the results of resolute long-term planning and orientation. It is a multi-year
process in every area of the company. That is what our stakeholders expect from us. The BMW
brand is a promise, and we deliver on our promises. We continue to build upon the strong
position we are in today. And with the rollout of NEUE KLASSE technologies and products over the
next two years, we will bring the company to a whole new level. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a short break before we move
on to the Q&A sessions. See you in five minutes.
Questions And Answers
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Colleagues, welcome back to the second part of our half year report. We'll now continue in
German. After the short break just now, we're now looking forward to taking your questions. As
always, you will be provided with some technical instructions before we then begin with the first
question.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we're now beginning the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) First
question comes from `Christina Amann, Analyst, Reuters from Reuters. Please unmute yourself now.
Q - `Christina Amann, Analyst, Reuters
Good morning, Mr. Zipse, Mr. Mertl. Thank you for allowing me the first question. I hope you can all
hear me.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Yes. We can hear you, Ms. Amann.
Q - `Christina Amann, Analyst, Reuters
Wonderful. I have a question relating to the tariffs. Perhaps you can quantify how much did the
tariffs cost you in the past quarter? I mean, these are two topics, aren't they? US tariffs and the
Chinese tariffs?
Second question also on tariffs. The agreement of the EU and the US means 15% import tariffs
into the US, 2.5% and later 0% for goods coming from the US going into Europe. Perhaps you can
provide some clarity as to what that means for you and how you will proceed? Will the positive or
the negative effects prevail, or is -- are they more or less balanced?
Then in your forecasts, you made reference to mitigating measures. Perhaps you could explain
what is meant by that. Does it mean price increases, or what's the strategy that BMW is pursuing
here? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Ms. Amann. We've understood all of your questions. Mr. Zipse will begin, later then Mr.
Mertl.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Ms. Amann. Let me just say something more general on the tariff discussion. Free
trade and international cooperation are extremely important for all industries globally. There is
not a single technology that would be able to survive without global trade. Obviously, that's
something that's often neglected when we talk about tariffs. These global links, that network that
is just there, that's something you always have to bear in mind when you talk about tariffs and talk
about how you can be more resilient, how you can protect yourself. I mean, any type of tariff, nobe emphasized. Therefore, the fewer trade obstacles, the better it is, especially for companies
doing global business. This is why we're always much in favor of reducing trade barriers and
tariffs.
Now, returning to the current ongoing discussion, of course, we welcome the general agreement
between the European Union and the US to reduce tariffs on both sides of the Atlantic. So that's
a good thing to begin with. It's good what's been achieved. You don't need to talk bad about it.
And now, next step is to finalize the measures agreed on and to implement them. We are
supporting the European Union explicitly in this respect, especially the EU Commission with a
clear reduction of import sold down to zero percent would reflect the fact that more than 80% of
cars from the US is actually made by German companies. So it's in the interest of European
companies to really bring the US-EU tariff to zero without any restrictions for further technical
parameters. This is why we will also support this being made possible. So we would like to appeal
to both sides to continue to work on opening the markets and also on working on convergence
of technology rules.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
`Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer, will now briefly say words on the financial repercussions.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Ms. Amann. In the second quarter, the effect is reflected in about 2 EBIT percentage points.
So that's the impact we have here. And on 7th of May, we said this is the major impact in the
second quarter because this is where the largest tariff is applied. What we had expected was that
in the third quarter tariffs would be reduced due to trade agreements between the US and the
remaining states. And this is actually what happened. And UK reached an agreement. There's an
agreement with the EU as well. Some might be a little irritated by it, but if you look to the home
pages of the White House or the EU and you see the conclusions we're seeing quite clear and
strong words from 1st of August saying that for vehicles and for vehicle components, import into
the US will be exposed to 15% tariff and there'll be 0% for goods going into the EU. And 1st of
August is from when on this will apply. Now, mitigating effects, this is something we've already
been using. This relates to the footprint of our plants and supply chain. It's not the same for all
manufacturers, you know what ours is.
And of course, let's also not forget that a free trade area in the US is still intact. We're selling
from the Spartanburg plant, more than 50% out of the US we're exporting, and because it's a
free trade area, no tariffs apply to those. So that's zero tariffs, and that applies to us as well.
Others might export other percentages and there's other effects, but the 3.75% according to the
executive order also applied to us for cars produced in Spartanburg and obviously that also
applies to us and that's also a mitigating measure. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is by `Markus Haase, Analyst, Handelsblatt from Handelsblatt.
Q - `Markus Haase, Analyst, Handelsblatt `
Good morning, gentlemen. I'd like to stay with the topic of tariffs as well. Mr. Zipse, like the rest ofmodel, so that imports and exports from the US could sort of be balanced or offset against each
other, so that we're much better off in the end compared to what has been achieved now.
Question, do you still see any chances that this offset model imports and exports to offset one
another? That that could still be realized? And what that mean for you? What would that mean for
you then? That's my first question.
And the second question, what does it mean for the relationship between the US and Europe?
Has the European -- has the economic area of the two been strengthened? Do you expect
there'll be more investment from your industry in the US? And what can the possible answer of
the EU be? Do we have to reconsider how we can improve the attractiveness of the location?
What does the EU now have to do? Because this deal all in all is at a disadvantage for the
European industry, at least that's how it is perceived by many parties? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Mr. Haase. I'll pass it on to Mr. Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, the first question, the offset logic, well, you see, politics is always about what's feasible. I
think what's important now is to take the first step, which is now in sight, and to agree on it,
namely reducing tariffs on both sides. That would be a first important step. Now, whether or not in
the second step, we'll conclude yet another offset agreement, that's something you can also do
on a bilateral level. It doesn't have to be part of a major package. You can also do it directly
between two countries.
This executive order on Section 232, that's actually something that's been passed unilaterally. So
perhaps we could renegotiate it bilaterally, but it would actually not include that into the big deal
we're currently negotiating. I think it's unrealistic, but that's not a problem because these bilateral
reductions of tariffs are much more important. Now as far as the US is concerned, the
investments that are to be made, and we already made those many, many years ago, we're
actually 15 years ahead of everyone. In the past 30 years, we already invest -- sold more than 7
million -- or made more than 7 million vehicles in Spartanburg, and we already invested $15 billion
there. So we more or less anticipated everything that was happening now. Not that we knew it
was going to happen, but this local-for-local approach, that's always the right thing to do. We did
it in the US, we did it in China, and we're also doing it in Europe.
And just, to get give you the picture, at the same time we're investing more than $2 billion as we
speak in US, and at the same time, we're investing an even higher amount in Germany. Think of
the Irlbach Strasskirchen, think of the refurbishment of the plant in Munich or the entirely new
plant in Hungary, the high F&E investment here in Europe. Now, where we really need to be
careful is that we do not actually favor one nation over the other. Now, Europe is the region that
has the best network, and that's the business model we need to strengthen. It would be entirely
wrong to believe that we can do more in the EU to strengthen the application. So I'm able to
export more. That would be the wrong path because all of this is happening at the same time.
And on the level of technology, the world is entirely interconnected anyway. And that's something
you always need to distinguish. Now, trade with finished products follows its own laws and
obviously, and that's something we've been preparing for, for many years. This will be
increasingly localized.
Now, on the level of technology, the opposite is happening. Because of fast technological
progress, the interlinking becomes stronger all the time. Look at the semiconductor industry, lookat battery technology. Globally, this will be stronger and stronger interlinked. So this is actually the
opposite of what you would assume. And you just have to be clear about it, and we're trying to
communicate this and tell politicians about this, that this is actually a large advantage that Europe
is cooperating with the world and establishing links. We're not preventing investments abroad.
But German companies are true global players. This is an advantage and not a disadvantage. And
it's these mechanisms you have to be aware of in order to strengthen Europe.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
That's `Christoph Meyer, Analyst, dpa from dpa. Please unmute yourself now.
Q - `Christoph Meyer, Analyst, dpa `
Well, good morning. A lot of my questions have already been asked, but there's two things.
Number one, tariffs. Well, in the US, these have so far not been passed on to customers. Will you
change that now? And if I've understood what Mr. Mertl said earlier, and I just did a bit of math on
my pocket calculator. In Q2, there would be roughly EUR600 million extra burden by tariffs. Can
you tell us how that is subdivided? How much of that is China and how much of that is US?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Mr. Meyer. The question goes to Mr. Mertl.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Mr. Meyer. Now, if we start with pricing, that's decoupled from the costs. Pricing is multi-
dimensional. It's not the same in China as it is in China in the US, in Canada, or whatever, it's just
the market. So that's the first thing we need to take into account. And then otherwise, all of the
projects, the things we're planning, and how and where we're acting, obviously, we do not talk
about commercials publicly.
Our competitors are also thinking about what they want to do. And we're thinking about this. And
this is not so much related to tariff effects. This is something we do every day, every month when
we launch new products, and in every market, we consider things well. We've got our own
methods, and we define our prices. Now, regarding the split of the tariffs, of course, different
tariffs act in different countries, but I'm not going to talk about that in detail now. So please
understand.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Walter. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question comes from `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal from The Wall Street Journal. Just turn your
microphone on now.
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal
I'm sorry to hark on about the business of tariffs. Thank you for taking my question, but just a bitfor the full year, which you said 1.25 percentage points or based on the current analyst consensus
that would be about EUR1.5 billion -- a little over EUR1.5 billion. It's quite a big difference from the
EUR1 billion that you gave in your outlook in March. I appreciate a lot has changed, but also for the
-- you've been helped as well as hindered by some of the changes. So can you just help us
square what that EUR1.5 billion number presumably is about right. And what's changed, I guess,
since you last gave your tariff update in the context of your saying that everything has been fully
anticipated and nothing has changed in your guidance, I'm just trying to understand how that
difference has come about?
And then secondly, does your guidance, current guidance, include zero tariffs on the shipments of
your vehicles from Spartanburg to the EU? There's a bit of ambiguity in the, kind of, news reports
around this, so I just wanted to know what you're factoring in?
And thirdly, does that question of the EU tariff on US exports or imports from the US, I should say,
does that answer your question about export credits? You've talked a lot about getting some
kind of offset arrangement with the US. But is that essentially -- is that question of offsets basically
answered by the question of what the EU tariff on shipments from the US is, or are you thinking
about that separately now? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Answer will be given in German. That's to Mertl.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Now, regarding guidance that we've given so far for the expected tariff impact, this was always
only in respect of EBIT margin, and both in March and in May I spoke about 1 percentage point
impact on the EBIT margin. The number in euros that you referred to, that didn't come from me.
We're still talking about 1 percentage point in terms of EBIT margin. So much on the first question.
Question two, regarding zero percent tariffs on EU imports. Yes, we're factoring that in, in
accordance with what I said before, starting 1st of August. However, in our P&L, let's not forget
that the goods that we're importing on 1st of August will not be sold right away and will not be
posted in the P&L, I'll still have goods left, and it'll take some time. And there will be
corresponding effects. But that's fully taken into account in our guidance.
And now, regarding the offset logic, we strongly advocated this, and `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer mentioned it
earlier, that we set up a credit scheme, both in the US as well as in Europe that gives us credits
for units produced, and we can then use those credits. Unfortunately, that hasn't been adopted
yet. That's one point in our list, something that we were hoping to be able to take into account,
but that's out now because with the 1.25% impact, credit schemes for this year are not factored
in. But regardless of that, we continue to work on this because we think it's the right thing to have
a credit scheme both in the US and in Europe. We would really like to implement such a scheme,
and we'll continue to talk about it. Just to be quite clear about it, the offset is not factored into
the current guidance for 2025.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. The next question, please.
Operator
Next question comes from `Kana Inagaki, Analyst, Financial Times from Financial Times. Please turn on your microphoneQ - `Kana Inagaki, Analyst, Financial Times
Hello. Hi. Thank you for taking my question. I'd like to ask a bit of a broader question. Until now,
companies have obviously pointed to the evolving nature of the Trump administration's tariffs. But
now that we do have a basic deal between the EU and the US, it does seem like these 15% tariffs
are going to stay. So I just wanted to see your take on the fact that this will likely stay obviously
through next year as well, and how this new reality is basically going to fundamentally change the
car industry as a whole. That's, sorry, a big question for the first one.
And then on the second one, I'm sorry to go back to this tariff. You've just been walking through
the various mitigation steps that you're going to be taking, and I take the fact that you obviously
have the benefit of exporting, but even then, most of the rivals have said that there's also the
steel and aluminum costs that are not directly imposed on carmakers, but are obviously
burdening the car industries through the suppliers. And that -- and therefore many are expecting
the tariff impact to actually increase towards the later -- towards the end of the year, even
despite the EU-US trade deal. So I just wanted to clarify, is the differentiating factor for you is the
exports that allows you to bucked basically the industry trend where everyone is warning that the
impact will be bigger later this year? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you for your question. `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Now, if you understand BMW as a global group of companies, then before we had an import-
export balance into the US and from the US, more or less. Just for the sake of argument, let's
assume that was fairly balanced. So we're importing the same as we're exporting. Then before
the trade negotiations, we had a tariff, let's say, of 10% plus 2.5%, 10% going into the EU and
2.5% going into the US. Now the total is 15%. 15% plus zero. So from a global perspective, it's
almost identical. Sure the relationship changes, but in total it's almost the same.
What I want to say is, I think this tariff discussion is way exaggerated and also its effects on the
industry. What's much more important is the question, are the products attractive? Are the
products made in such a way that they create a contribution margin? And are they attractive
enough so that customers will pay a good price for them? This is much more important than
tariffs. So allow me to make that remark. Well, yes, we've got a new tariff system in place, which
applies for now, but the effect on the BMW Group won't be that large, because in total the tariff
is not much higher than it was before.
What's important to understand for Europe is, please don't go into -- don't make that mistake of
believing that by delimiting the trade relationships from other countries, you can be more
resilient. I think that is a fallacy. Actually, you need to have global business models. You have to
trade in all directions and be locally strongly integrated. These are the business models that will
always survive. And this is exactly the strategy of BMW.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
`Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `One thing I can add here is, regarding the statement that you made that others have declared
that in Q3 there will be higher impact and we are not saying that. Well, we have to take into
account in the US that the OEMs also have quite large inventories. Ours is -- the reach is less than
30 days, now in the industry on average, it's a huge spread, but the industry average is roughly
60 days. So many other OEMs have a lot more inventory or have more inventory in US, and that's
different to us. And they also imported cars into the US in different manners.
And for that reason, their P&L still includes like legacy cars that are still being sold now without the
tariffs. And so, in Q3, we will now have the cars sold on which those tariffs apply. So that may well
be that they actually say other things based on their particular business model, their inventory,
and also their P&L effects than we at BMW, because we have fewer cars in the yard locally. It does
make a difference, and consistently that's why the statements that made by OEMs are just
different.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Yes, that was a very important clarification. Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Christophe Kabacinski from Die Welt, [ph] turn your microphone on now, please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. I wanted to ask, could you comment on the current situation in China, and are you
planning on changing your strategy or adjusting it?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Okay, I'll pass our question to `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Mr. Kabacinski. Well, in China, it's quite exciting. End of June, as I said in my speech earlier,
there were a few impulses by the government. They wanted to take greater care of how
commissions are taken into account that we, as BMW, had been criticizing over the past two years
that external banks paid far more than 5% commission to dealerships. We're not talking about net
sales, but with an effect on net sales of the dealerships. And this is something we made them
aware of in June at the end of -- and as a result, a couple of things happened beginning of July.
We at BMW have always been positive about this month. For a month we had slightly increasing
volumes, but of course this had effects on the entire market at the same time. The government
also underlined that supplier payment schemes have to be taken into account. BMW Group pays
within between 30 and 60 days as per agreement. And other OEMs in China do this differently.
So here there might also be slight irritation. Well, while we don't have that, and all of that taken
together may lead to some irritation.
The 1st of July, the second week of July and the third was better already. Ultimately for us, for the
BMW Group and its vehicles, we're seeing a slight increase in transaction prices in the first weeks
of July. In the first weeks of July -- well, but we'll see how that goes once we've got the closing
figures for July.
Now, what may be different at BMW than with other OEMs is the following. As you know, we are
restructuring our dealer network and currently the impact is mainly with the dealers that we had
support since November with respect to their criticality and the dealership network will sort of berearranged. And we have made quite good progress yet, and by the end of the year the process
will have been completed. So we've got truly motivated dealers in place, which will be able to sell
their units. We're now in a phase of transition, but that makes it a little more difficult. This is why in
the first six months, we saw stronger impact in the year-on-year comparison.
And since we're making good progress and because existing groups of dealers are going to take
over other groups of dealers and outlets, we're quite confident, because they all believe in W
and they know that we are well invested and they know that they'll have a future with BMW and
that they'll be able to grow and they'll be able to make money. And we are very happy about
that.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. We've got three questions left. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question comes from `Frank Volk, Analyst, Automobilwoche from Automobilwoche. You have the floor.
Q - `Frank Volk, Analyst, Automobilwoche `
Hello, everyone. Zipse, you mentioned the flexibility of production networks. Now if there were --
if there's no import tariffs importing into, are you already considering relocating further models
into the Spartanburg plant, for example? Then I have a question relating to the end-of-lease
vehicles and the slower revenues obtained. What is the reason for that? And then a question
relating to China and their sales strategy. How are you currently acting there? There is a price
competition going on. There's a fight. Are you going along with that or would you tend to say, no,
we can't make any more money on that? So what does it look like?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Mr. Volk. Mr. Zipse will begin regarding flexibility in production network. And then the
other two questions will be answered by Mr. Mertl.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Mr. Volk. No, there won't be any relocations. No, the ranges of these tariffs are
simply not large enough. And as I said, the Spartanburg plant is working at full capacity. There is
no room for further volumes. So permit me to say so. And from the current perspective, all of that
remains stable. Also, the plant utilization and both markets, Europe and the US, each on their
own, are highly attractive markets. For BMW, the numbers actually speak for themselves. We've
got high growth rates in both markets. And this is independent of the plant location.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello. Let's start with the end of lease vehicles and the money we get for them. Every quarter, we
re-evaluate our entire portfolio in the entire world. We have residual value expectations towards
the end of the contract. And we are relating to that at the beginning of the contract. And we're
including all of the information into this calculation that we have. Not just a general list assumingcurrent today's prices, but we're factoring in lists that we're predicting for the next 36 months, for
example.
What can be stated is that, for the past two years, used car prices gradually normalized because
you know we've had the best prices when there were hardly any new cars available because
there wasn't enough material. This was in the years '21 and '22. And this is why used car prices
increased strongly in that time. In 2023, third quarter, this slowly decreased because we again
had full availability. But regardless of that, regardless of the fact that prices are slowly decreasing
again, we can establish that they're still higher than they were, for example, in 2018 or 2019.
And accordingly, because we are reassessing every quarter, we can say that we still have -- we
still make income in the sale of end of lease vehicles. Not as much as last year, but it's still a
positive contribution. And this is exactly what that point is about. Now, China, you're asking
whether we're entering the full price fight. Well, in China, last year, we had a major discussion
second and third quarter when a lot of things happened. Also these commissions that I referred
to earlier, they increased to more than 10%, a fact which we have criticized. Now, this has now led
to a turnaround. Of course, the market is quite dynamic, but I'd like to point to our forecast. In
March, we said that we'll be on the level of the second half year of 2024. And I can tell you our
net revenues, if I compare those with the forecasted second half of the year 2024, we're actually
slightly in the positive compared to where we were second half of the year 2024. So our plan is
working and the future will show the rest.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Walter. Next question, please.
Operator
That's Angela Meyer [ph] from (inaudible). Please turn your microphone on.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. I've got three very brief questions. I wanted to know, can you say anything on the
dividend yet? The forecast is that or analysts forecast that the dividend will be lower to EUR4
compared to the EUR4.30 from the previous year. Hence my question, do you have a target you
want to keep the dividend stable, or how do you see this?
Second question. In China, the limit for luxury tax was lowered. What's the impact for BMW?
Could you tell us how many vehicles roughly could be affected by this?
And then third question, I'd like to ask is zero percent tariffs in the European Union, does that
take off some burden and could you quantify that in base percentage points?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Ms. Meyer. All three questions will be answered by `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Ms. Meyer. Now, the amount of the dividend. We'll tell you once we know, that'll be in March
2026 at the balance sheet press conference. And that's where you'll get the information.
Regarding China and the luxury tax, that was lowered. I wanted to correct you here, the luxury tax
is there, but the base level as of which it applies, that base level was lowered to RMB900,000.Now the impact for us is less than 1% of the volume.
Regarding believing a burden, because of 0% tariffs for EU imports, I mentioned this earlier when
I was asked whether I could break down all of the tariff effects individually. That's something I
wasn't going to do, so I won't do that now. So just know there's still five years left for EU imports
and they don't have a P&L effect of five months, but less. But of course there will be an effect and
we're happy that people followed us in that respect.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. Now, something from the last question, Lux Meyer. We had Angela
Meyer first and now we have Lux Meyer. The last question, please. Lux Meyer from Capital. [ph]
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning.
Operator
Meyer. Sorry, it's just a comment I had to make. I apologize. Well, there could be more people by
that name anyway. Well, you have the floor.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Now for something completely different, no tariffs. From your perspective, you had some positive
news on BEV sales and I would like some more details. First of all, are you this year compliant with
the EU regulation? And how about the next years to come? Are you keeping an eye on what
regulation is doing here and what's the demand on the market now in the EU? Could you say
that, I mean, last year customers were quite reserved. Is that over now? Is demand now
increasing? And if it is, is it also increasing outside of Europe? Is the margin increasing outside of
Europe? If you're now selling more beds, does that dilute your margin or is the opposite the
case?
And the third question, also on BEVs, but now in respect to China. There is a concern that in
China, battery and BEV doesn't really go together and will not work in the long run. So what's your
take on this? What's your experience?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
Thank you, Mr. Meyer, for those three questions. They'll be answered by Mr. Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Mr. Meyer. I'd like to answer your questions step by step. First of all, do we reach
our targets? Yes, we're sufficiently confident about this. Last year we reached them anyway. This
year, next year I think we'll also reach our goals in terms of the current regulation in the EU. That's
all been known for many years. Even if for 2025, the goals are stricter, we are growing with our
best, so we're quite confident that we can reach those goals. But we still believe there could be a
better regime, a better method going forward to 2030 and 2035 to do this more efficiently, but
then also to improve the effectiveness of CO2 regulation.
You know what we're saying. We need a life cycle assessment, not just look at what happens in
the car, but also consider where does the power come from, what happens in the value chain,
what happens of the suppliers and what happens when the cars are recycled. Well, sometimesit's a little difficult to understand that we're saying, yeah, yeah, we're staying within all of the
limits, but looking into the future we're actually in favor of a more intelligent approach. To us,
that's no contradiction, by the way, that we're doing that, because everything we do cannot be
measured in quarters, but in years or even decades.
So what happened in the first six months? BEV sales could be increased globally to more than
220,000 units. We've never had that many before. And that should actually answer your question.
Is there a market for these? Of course there is. Otherwise we wouldn't be selling so many cars.
And they're highly attractive. And now with NEUE KLASSE, we're still going one level up with an
increased performance in almost all sizes. So we do believe in 2026, '27, '28, we'll be on a very
good track and you will see with the NEUE KLASSE, the attractiveness of our product portfolio is
so high that we will see a substantial increase in our values.
Which brings me to your question about China. Now whether in a specific market something
works better or worse, well, it's precisely for that reason that our approach is neutral in the
respect of technology. In Europe, there's different approaches as well, by the way. There's a huge
difference between Denmark, Belgium, Norway as compared to Spain and Italy. With our
approach, we're just responding to that. We just changed the product mix in such a way that it
works there. And this is in Europe the same as it is in China.
And the observation you made, well, that's quite right, but it's not a problem really, because
we're able to react to this and what I said earlier about NEUE KLASSE, of course we'll also launch
it in China. It's a global product offering and we will create trust in our customers that all electric
offerings can be very attractive, because of the electric drivetrain, but not only because of that.
These are all in all very modern vehicles, digital capabilities, completely new design. You will
experience -- well, we're not relaxed but we are confident that we are able to respond well to
any market development.
Q - Unidentified Participant
How about the margin? Do more BEVs dilute your margin. Martin Mertl?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I could take that question. Do you know that not just because of design and attractiveness
of the product of NEUE KLASSE. That's not the only reason we're looking forward to this. But I'm
also looking forward to its profitability with Gen 6 and the battery alone. Depending on which
battery use, we'll have savings of 40% to 50% in manufacturing costs compared to our current
Gen 5 battery. So I'm really looking forward to that. So I'm also looking forward to that also in
terms of the BEVs.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Head of Corporate & Governmental Affairs `
All right. Thank you Dr. Meyer for the question. Thanks to the colleagues. Thanks for your
questions. We're now ending our telephone conference. Thanks for participating. Goodbye and
servus from Munich.