Q1 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the UK and the U.S. Good afternoon to those in Central
Europe, and good evening to those listening in Asia. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to
AstraZeneca's Q1 2025 Results Conference Call for Investors and Analysts.
Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The company
intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. This meeting may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the
operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our expectations are
based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking statements involve risks
and uncertainties, and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Any forward-
looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information available at the time
of this call.
The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Please also
carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the slide deck that accompanies this
conference call. There will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentations.
(Operator Instructions) I must advise you, this presentation is being recorded today.And with that, I will now hand you over to Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations.
`Andrew Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
A warm welcome to AstraZeneca's first quarter 2025 presentation, conference call, and webcast
for investors and analysts. I'm Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations, and before I hand over to
Pascal and other members of our executive team, I'd like to cover some housekeeping items.
Firstly, all of the materials presented today are available on AstraZeneca's Investor Relations
website. This slide contains our Safe Harbor statement, which I'd encourage you to take the time
to read. We will be making comments on our performance using constant exchange rates, or
CER, core financial numbers, and other non-GAAP measures. A non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliation
is contained within the results announcement. All numbers quoted are in millions of U.S. dollars
unless otherwise stated.
This slide shows our agenda for the call, and following our prepared remarks, we'll open the line
for questions. As usual, we'll try to address as many questions as we can during the call, although
please limit the number of questions you ask to allow others a fair chance to participate in the
Q&A.
And with that, I'll hand over to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy, and welcome, everybody. We've made a strong start in the first quarter of the
year, building on the momentum through 2024. Total revenue growth was 10% in the quarter,
reflecting increasing demand for innovative medicines. Core operating profit increased by 12%,
and core EPS increased by 21%, reflecting our continued focus on operating leverage. Although
core EPS in the first quarter did benefit from a lower tax rate due to settlements in certain
jurisdictions.
Since our full year results in February, we've secured 13 approvals in key regions across our
diverse portfolio, a clear illustration of the value our medicines bring to patients globally. In
addition, we continue to see strong delivery from our pipeline, and in the past few months,
announced five positive Phase 3 results, including two NMEs, camizestrant and eneboparatide,
and multiple high-value indication expansion opportunities across gastric and breast cancers.
We're making excellent progress towards our ambition to deliver at least 20 NMEs by 2030, with
the recent approval of Beyonttra, formerly known as acoramidis, marking the ninth novel
medicine approval towards our goal.
We continue to benefit from our broad-based, diverse business with a robust growth outlook for
each of our therapy areas and across key geographies. We saw strong performances across key
regions, despite anticipated headwinds, including Medicare Part D redesign in the U.S.
Importantly, we continue to deliver impressive growth in the emerging markets, with ex-China
revenues up 17%, reflecting the benefit of our sustained presence in these markets.
Our growth in China was also encouraging, up 5%, or 9% when adjusting for the decline of
Pulmicort sales. This growth is driven by increasing demand for innovative medicines, with
additional launches in China achieved in the first quarter.
We are aiming to deliver sustained growth well beyond 2030, investing in transformative
technologies. In the first quarter, we announced several business development transactions that
strengthen our pipeline and our capabilities, which we believe have potential to support our long-Our proposed acquisition of EsoBiotec brings the potentially best-in-class in vivo cell therapy
platform in-house, increasing accessibility of potentially curative cell therapies with applications
across oncology and autoimmune diseases.
Next, we announced our portfolio of novel modalities, accelerating the development of multi-
specific biologics and macrocyclic peptides across a wide range of diseases. We also announced
an exclusive license for ALT-B4 with Alteogen to deliver subcutaneous formulations of multiple
oncology assets, with the aim of making our treatments easier to administer and more
convenient for patients.
Finally, we announced a recent investment in Beijing, China, where we will establish our sixth
strategic R&D center. The pace of medical and scientific innovation in Beijing is impressive, and
our new R&D center will enable us to foster and strengthen collaborations within the local
ecosystem, as well as attract world-class talent in China to discover and develop new
transformative medicines.
To support our growth across the major geographies around the world, over the last few years,
we have been building a broad manufacturing network covering the U.S., Europe, and China. Our
global presence makes our business highly resilient to regional disruptions, effectively providing a
natural hedge. We now have 31 manufacturing sites globally and dual-source supply for the vast
majority of our medicines.
Our supply chains for China and the U.S are largely segregated, and we have very limited
commercialized finished medicines imported from the U.S to China, meaning that our exposure
to the current China tariffs on pharmaceuticals is not material in the context of the goal.
We have a substantial and growing manufacturing footprint in the U.S. We currently have 11
manufacturing sites in the country, and the vast majority of our medicines sold in the U.S are
made domestically. We do import a minority of medicines sold in the U.S from Europe. However,
mitigations are already underway. As a result, we believe that if tariffs were implemented in the
range we have seen recently in other industries on medicines imported from Europe to the U.S.,
we would remain within the guidance range we indicated for 2025, in part due to our ongoing
inventory management.
Beyond 2025, the impact on the minority of medicines imported from Europe would be time
limited as we are shifting manufacturing of these medicines to sites in the U.S. We will, of course,
provide updates as appropriate.
And with that, I will hand over to Aradhana to take us through our financials. Please advance to the
next slide.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal, and good morning, everyone. As usual, I will start with our reported P&L. Next
slide.
As Pascal highlighted, total revenue grew by 10% in the first quarter. Product sales grew by 9%,
with growth seen in all major regions. Alliance revenue, mainly consisting of Enhertu and Tezspire
profit shares, increased by 42% to $639 million.
Starting this quarter, we are presenting a new line in our P&L called product revenue. This is the
sum of product sales and Alliance revenue, which better characterizes the performance of
sustainable revenue, both from products sold by AstraZeneca, and revenue share fromTurning to our core P&L, we saw a total revenue gross margin of 84% in the first quarter,
benefiting from product sales mix and some favorable FX movements. Please note that we will
report gross margin based on total revenue going forward, rather than product sales. The gross
margin percentage based on total revenue reflects the totality of the costs associated with
creating it, including payaways to our Alliance partners of gross profit shares that are booked in
the cost of sales relating to markets where AstraZeneca leads commercialization and books
product sales.
As previously stated, in relation to product sales gross margin, we anticipate the total revenue
gross margin will decline around 60 basis points to 70 basis points in 2025. The decline is driven
by the Part D redesign, anticipated VBP inclusions in China, Soliris biosimilar competition, and
increased profit share relating to partnered products.
We anticipate a lower gross margin in the second half of the year, driven by some of these such
as VBP, as well as the usual seasonal pattern for certain medicines such as FluMist.
Total operating expenses increased by 9% in the first quarter, below top-line growth of 10%.
Core R&D costs increased by 16%, and represented 23% of total revenue, driven by new trial
starts and investments in transformative technologies such as cell therapy. We continue to
anticipate core R&D costs to be in the low 20s percentage range for the full year.
Core SG&A costs increased by 4%, and, as anticipated, continue to grow at a slower rate than
total revenue. The core operating profit margin was 35%, supported by favorable cost phasing,
and a higher gross margin this quarter. Similar to prior years, we anticipate a lower margin in the
following quarters, primarily relating to the gross margin effects I mentioned above.
The core tax rate was 16%, benefiting from a favorable settlement in the quarter, and is
anticipated to remain 18% to 22% for the full year. Core EPS of $2.49 represents a CER growth
rate of 21%. Next slide.
Our cash flow continues to improve. Cash inflows from operating activities increased to $3.7
billion in the quarter. We saw CapEx of approximately $500 million, which will increase in future
quarters, and we continue to anticipate CapEx to increase by around 50% this year versus 2024.
Deal payments of around $800 million included a $175 million milestone payable to Daiichi Sankyo
for Enhertu DESTINY-Breast06 U.S. approval. Our net debt increased by $1.5 billion to $26.1 billion,
with the increase driven by the dividend payment of $3.3 billion in the first quarter. We remain
comfortable with our level of debt, and the current net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio stands at
1.5x.
Building on Pascal's comments earlier, we are reiterating our full year 2025 guidance, anticipating
total revenue growth of high single-digit percentage, and core EPS growth of low double-digit
percentage at constant exchange rates.
Based on the March average FX rates, we continue to anticipate a low single-digit percentage
adverse impact on total revenue, and have updated our FX guidance for core EPS to low single-
digit adverse impact, previously mid single-digit.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Dave, who will take you
through the performance of our oncology and hematology business.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology Business Unit `
Thank you, Aradhana. Next slide, please.Oncology total revenues grew 13% in the first quarter to $5.6 billion, with strong double-digit
growth across the U.S., Europe, and emerging markets.
Turning now to quarterly performance for our key medicines, I'd like to talk first about our oral
oncolytics performance in the U.S., which includes Tagrisso, Calquence, Lynparza, and Truqap.
Across these medicines, we saw an increase in the proportion of Medicare Part D patients
following implementation of the $2,000 co-pay cap, which led to fewer patients on free goods,
and increased adherence. These dynamics helped to partially offset the gross-to-net impact
following Part D redesign.
Tagrisso delivered 8% growth in the first quarter, reflecting strong demand across all indications,
including accelerating demand for FLAURA2 in the U.S and Europe, and strong launch uptake for
LAURA in unresectable Stage 3 setting. Strong underlying demand in Europe was partially
impacted by pricing pressure in certain major markets, and we anticipate continued growth over
the balance of the year across all indications.
Calquence's total revenues increased 8% in the first quarter. Starting with the U.S., volumes
increased over 20%, reflecting sustained BTK inhibitor leadership in frontline chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, and accelerating launch momentum for ECHO in mantle cell lymphoma.
Following recent Medicare affordability improvements, the proportion of Medicare Part D
Calquence patients has increased by 10 percentage points over the past year. In Europe,
Calquence continues to gain market share in an increasingly competitive environment.
Looking ahead, we see potential for meaningful new growth opportunities, including the fixed-
duration AMPLIFY regimen in CLL, and continued demand for ECHO in MCL.
Lynparza remains the leading PARP inhibitor globally, with 5% growth in the first quarter. We
anticipate further volume growth globally, which will help offset pricing pressure in Europe, and
the potential impact of VBP inclusion in China, which we expect from the middle of the year.
Truqap delivered $132 million in first-quarter revenues, and is now approved in all major markets.
In the U.S., continued market leadership in the second-line biomarker-altered population was
offset by destocking of the blister pack following the inventory build-up in the fourth quarter.
Impressively, one year post-launch, Truqap has achieved nearly 100% market share in the AKT
P10 biomarker-altered population, with additional opportunity for growth in the PIK3CA
population.
Turning now to the rest of our portfolio, Imfinzi and Imjudo delivered 16% and 13% growth
respectively, reflecting continued demand in lung and liver cancers across major markets. We look
forward to expanding Imfinzi adoption in bladder and lung cancers following recent approvals for
NIAGARA, ADRIATIC, and AEGEAN in the U.S and Europe.
Enhertu total revenues grew 34% in the first quarter, reflecting continued market leadership for
DESTINY-Breast03 and 04, as well as impressive growth in China following NRDL enlistment in
January. We continue to see encouraging launch momentum for DESTINY-Breast06 in the U.S.,
and are excited about the recent European approval, which will help move Enhertu into chemo-
naive and HER2 ultra-low settings. We're off to an encouraging start with the launch of Datroway,
a hormone receptor-positive HER2-negative breast cancer. Feedback from the breast cancer
community reinforces the improved convenience and favorable GI toxicity profile seen with
Datroway in the TROPION-Breast01 trial.We're excited about the outlook for our oncology portfolio over the balance of the year, as we
continue to expand the reach of our transformative medicines. With that, please advance to the
next slide, and I'll hand over to Susan to cover key R&D highlights from the quarter.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. Over the past few months, we've had several key oncology data readouts that
mark important steps towards achieving our 2030 ambition.
In February, we were very excited to announce the positive high-level results for camizestrant, the
first next-generation oral SERD to have a positive readout in the first-line setting in hormone
receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer with emerging ESR1 mutations.
SERENA-6 demonstrated a highly statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in
progression-free survival. And whilst time to second progression and overall survival remain
immature, a trend to improvement in time to second progression was also observed. This trial
also demonstrated the combinability of camizestrant with three CDK4/6 inhibitors, and showed
that the combinations are well-tolerated.
SERENA-6 is the first step to establishing camizestrant as the endocrine backbone of choice
across ER-positive breast cancer settings, and has the potential to redefine treatment for
patients with HR-positive metastatic breast cancer and emerging ESR1 mutations.
Last month, we were delighted to share positive high-level results for MATTERHORN, a key
indication expansion opportunity for Imfinzi. In MATTERHORN, perioperative Imfinzi in combination
with FLOT chemotherapy demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful
improvement in event-free survival, as well as a strong trend in overall survival versus
perioperative chemotherapy alone in patients with resectable early-stage and locally advanced
gastric and gastroesophageal junction cancers. MATTERHORN is the third successful
perioperative trial for Imfinzi, following on from AEGEAN and NIAGARA, and it underscores the
value of this approach to treatment. This trial represents another blockbuster opportunity,
expanding our presence in GI cancers and unlocking further potential for Imfinzi. The practice-
changing data from SERENA-6 and MATTERHORN will both feature as ASCO plenaries this year,
making this the seventh year in a row AstraZeneca data has been included in the plenary sessions
at ASCO.
Finally, just over a week ago, we were also excited to share the high-level results from the interim
analysis of DESTINY-Breast09. This trial demonstrated the combination of Enhertu and
pertuzumab, resulted in a highly statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in
progression-free survival versus standard-of-care three-drug regimen, THP.
There were no new safety signals for the combination, and whilst not mature, Enhertu plus
pertuzumab demonstrated an early trend to overall survival benefit. DESTINY-Breast09 is the only
ongoing first-line trial in a HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer population in which
investigational therapy is initiated upfront at the onset of treatment and moves Enhertu a line
earlier in a broad HER2 positive population with the opportunity to once again redefine
management of this disease. We continue to follow up in both the combination and monotherapy
arms.
In addition, we're delighted to share that our TROP2-NMR companion diagnostic co-developed
with Roche Tissue Diagnostics has now been granted Breakthrough Designation by the FDA for
use in the TROPION-Lung17 trial which will investigate Datroway in the second-line TROP2-NMRpositive patient population. This underscores the potential of this practice-changing technology,
both for Datroway and the broader AstraZeneca portfolio.
Next slide, please. We continue to progress our transformative technologies with the potential to
disrupt treatment paradigms and deliver sustainable growth beyond 2030. At the Society of
Gynecologic Oncology Annual Meeting this year, we shared Phase I/II data for puxitatug
samrotecan, also known as P-Sam, in endometrial cancer. These data demonstrated an
encouraging durable objective response rate of 35% to 38%, and a promising median
progression-free survival of seven months in a B7H4 IHC positive population, alongside a
manageable safety profile.
These data provide us with additional confidence in P-Sam, and support our decision to start a
Phase III trial in endometrial cancer later this year. P-Sam is one of our six AstraZeneca ADCs, all of
which continue to progress at pace in the clinic.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
biopharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. Please move to the next slide.
Our biopharmaceuticals medicines delivered a strong start to 2025, with total revenue reaching
$5.6 billion in the first quarter, reflecting a growth of 12% compared to the first quarter of 2024.
Farxiga revenues exceeded $2 billion for the first time, driven by continued demand across
chronic kidney disease and heart failure. The strong foundation we have built with Farxiga will
support the potential launch of three fixed-dose dapagliflozin combinations already in Phase III
development.
Total revenue in the United States was down 90% versus last year, when revenues benefited
from the launch of an authorized generic and the stocking impact this brought with it.
In China, we anticipate that Farxiga, along with roxadustat, will be included in the VBP program
from the middle of the year. We're also expecting to see generic competition for Brilinta enter
the U.S. market in the coming months. Even so, we expect that the growth drivers in our
biopharmaceuticals portfolio this year will clearly outpace the headwinds.
Lokelma remains the market leader in an expanding potassium binder class, delivering $153
million in the first quarter and growth of over 35% for the fourth consecutive quarter.
R&I delivered another strong quarter, up 13% to $2.1 billion in revenue. Fasenra, Tezspire,
Saphnelo, Breztri, and Airsupra now make up just over half of our R&I total revenue, and their
combined revenue contribution grew by 40% in the first quarter. Fasenra and Tezspire both
benefited from their strong positions within the fast-growing market for respiratory biologics.
Fasenra increased its IL-5 class leadership for severe eosinophilic asthma patients, supported by
the recent launch in EGPA.
Tezspire achieved leading new-to-brand share in key markets with strong launches across
Europe. Our older inhaled medicine Pulmicort saw a drop of 26%. The decline was driven by
China, due predominantly to a milder winter and continued generic competition.
In V&I, Beyfortus revenues more than doubled, supported by the recent expansion of
manufacturing capacity. This year we are looking forward to several important readouts for
biopharmaceutical medicines, Breztri in Asthma, Fasenra in COPD, and Saphnelo's subcutaneousformulation. We have completed regulatory submissions in all major markets for Tezspire in nasal
polyps.
We will also have our first Phase III readout for baxdrostat, a new molecular entity with the
potential to deliver over $5 billion in peak year revenue.
With that, I will now hand over to Sharon to share updates across our biopharmaceuticals pipeline
in the quarter.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals R&D `
Thank you, Ruud. I would like to take a moment to highlight our progress this quarter within the
biopharmaceuticals pipeline. At the American College of Cardiology, we were excited to present
the positive Phase IIb data for our novel oral small molecule PCSK9 inhibitor, AZD0780,
demonstrating a significant LDL cholesterol reduction on top of standard of care and a potential
best-in-class profile in patients with hypercholesterolemia.
The data from PURSUIT, which were also simultaneously published in the Journal of the American
College of Cardiology, found AZD0780 resulted in a 50.7% reduction in LDL-C versus placebo
when dosed once-daily on top of standard of care statins.
Similar efficacy was observed regardless of whether patients received moderate or high-intensity
statin doses at baseline, and AZD0780 was well-tolerated, with a similar frequency of adverse
events compared to placebo, consistent with the Phase I data we shared last year.
Importantly, as an oral small molecule, AZD0780 offers the advantage of favorable once-daily
dosing with no food effect or need for fasting requirements. This convenient profile could
enhance patient compliance, and has the potential to expand access to this class of medicines
beyond its reach today.
Dyslipidemia remains a substantial public health concern, placing patients at risk of severe
cardiovascular outcomes including stroke and death, and results in approximately 4.4 million
deaths per year. Based on the data from PURSUIT, we are progressing AZD0780 into Phase III at
pace, and we will simultaneously initiate three pivotal Phase III trials in the coming months.
The first will investigate LDL-C reduction. The second will focus on heterozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia, and the third is a cardiovascular outcomes trial. The outcome study will
target the prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with a history of atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease, and those at high risk of experiencing an ASCVD event.
We look forward to updating on future opportunities to use AZD0780 in combination with statins
and other small molecules in our broad CVRM portfolio. We believe that AZD0780 has the
potential to be a $5 billion plus asset, and an important option for patients who urgently need
novel approaches to improve their outcomes.
And with that, please go to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Marc to cover rare disease.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Thank you, Sharon. Can I have the next slide?
Rare disease delivered total revenues of $2 billion in quarter one, reflecting stable performance
year-on-year. While patient numbers continue to grow across medicine and indication year-on-
year, there are several factors impacting revenue growth in the first quarter.Ultomiris grew 25%, driven by patient demand across indications, partially offset by competition in
generalized myasthenia gravis and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, and to a lesser extent
from Part D redesign in neurology indications. We expect Soliris revenues to continue to decline
due to a successful conversion to Ultomiris, which has launched in all four shared indications, as
well as biosimilar pressure in Europe and unfavorable order timing in certain tender markets.
As a reminder, biosimilars for Soliris have now launched in the United States for PNH, atypical
HUS, and myasthenia gravis. Beyond complement, Strensiq grew 14% driven by continued patient
demand, moderately offset by some impact from Part D redesign. Koselugo grew 8% driven by
patient demand, partially offset by unfavorable order timing in tender markets. Despite these
headwinds, we continue to expect growth across the rare disease portfolio in 2025, but at a
slower pace than was seen in 2024.
During the quarter, Beyonttra, formerly acoramidis, was approved in Japan for the treatment of
adults with transthyretin-mediated amyloid cardiomyopathy. This is an exciting step forward in our
progress to deliver an industry-leading amyloidosis portfolio.
Please advance to the next slide. During the quarter, we received positive news from a single-
arm pediatric study of Ultomiris in HSCT-TMA. HSCT-TMA is a rare type of thrombotic
microangiopathy, a severe complication of a hematopoietic stem cell or bone marrow transplant,
and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
In the Phase III study in pediatric patients, Ultomiris demonstrated improvements in the individual
components of TMA response, such as platelets, LDH, urinary protein creatinine ratio, as well as
overall survival. We await high-level results from the placebo-controlled Phase III trial in adult and
adolescent in the second half of the year, and look forward to sharing data with regulatory
authorities. This is the first indication expansion opportunity for Ultomiris beyond the Soliris level,
representing a potential blockbuster opportunity on a risk-adjusted basis.
As outlined on our Investor Day last year, we continue to build out a rare renal pipeline. Expanding
into post-transplant diseases, we are initiating the Phase III AWAKE trial of Ultomiris in delayed
graft function, or DGF. With Ultomiris' immediate, sustained terminal complement inhibition, we
believe it is uniquely positioned to help reduce inflammation and renal injury, ultimately extending
kidney transplant organ longevity.
In the quarter, we also announced a Phase III CALYPSO trial, studying eneboparatide in chronic
hypoparathyroidism patients, which met the composite endpoint, showing a statistically significant
normalization of serum calcium, whilst simultaneously reducing dependence on daily calcium and
vitamin D supplements.
We have made changes to the trial protocol to allow patients to receive a higher dose. Based on
patient response, an additional efficacy analysis will be measured at 52 weeks. This will help to
further characterize eneboparatide's risk-benefit profile.
2025 is a catalyst-rich year for rare disease portfolio with four Phase III trials due to readout, three
of which are NME opportunities. And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand
back to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Next slide, please.
We've made a strong start to the year with several important readouts already in hand, but this ishave through the end of 2025 is quite remarkable. And together, they represent over $10 billion
in potential peak risk-adjusted -- potential risk-adjusted peak year revenue, sorry. Next slide,
please.
In closing, already this year, we are tracking well towards our 2030 ambition. We expect
continued growth from all of our therapy areas over the balance of the year and across key
geographies. Importantly, global demand for our medicines is expected to offset the known
headwinds. As evident from our results in recent prior quarters, we remain focused on delivering
operating leverage while continuing to invest in our pipeline and in transformative technologies to
support our growth to 2030 and beyond.
And lastly, we are on track to deliver at least 20 new medicines by 2030, with nine delivered
already. An accelerating pace of new approvals is anticipated across our portfolio.
Please advance to the next slide, and we will move to the Q&A. (Operator Instructions) With that,
let's move to the first question. `Sarita Kapila, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Sarita, over to you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Q - `Sarita Kapila, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. It's Sarita at Morgan Stanley. So firstly, how should we think
about the impact of the Medicare Part D redesign in the U.S., as we move through the year? Was
it mostly Q1 weighted, or do you expect further impact from here? And if you could help frame or
quantify the overall impact for the full year and comment on the underlying outlook for '25 in
oncology, that would also be useful. Thank you.
And then just a quick one on AVANZAR. Perhaps you could talk about the confidence around the
QCS biomarker, and if there are any examples about a retro biomarker -- retrospective, sorry,
biomarker translating to the prospective setting. And talk about the rationale for using Imfinzi as
the backbone versus Keytruda, please, and does that increase the risk of the trial? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sarita. And maybe, Dave, you could take the first question, and Susan, the second one?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology Business Unit `
Absolutely, Sarita. Thanks for the question. In terms of your specific question, I would think of Part
D as a rebasing that happens at the beginning of this year, and then all volume growth that we're
able to have from here is going to be against that rebased number.
And the reason for that is that catastrophic is triggered on the very first fill within our oral
oncology product. So it will not grow from here, it's a rebased number from here. Obviously, it
grows as our volumes grow within Part D. But I think to put this into some context, and maybe I'll
just talk specifically about Tagrisso, because I think it's a good example.
In the U.S., we saw a 20% increase in volumes from our ongoing launches of FLAURA2, ADAURA,
LAURA, all going really, really well. Together with reduced free good utilization and some price
increases, that offset the gross to net impact from Part D redesign. So we saw revenue growth of9% in the U.S., volume growth of 20%. And I think that importantly, the new patient start and TRx
data show that we're also really managing competition well with FLAURA and FLAURA2. And we
expect continued revenue growth throughout 2025 within this.
So I think full year outlook on oral oncolytics remains strong. We've got good growth drivers that
we're able to operate against. And as long as we continue to navigate against those key
performance indicators as well, I'm confident that we will grow from this rebasing period.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. And maybe just to add, Sarita, is that Dave said it, 20% volume growth on Tagrisso.
We have more than 20% volume growth on Calquence. And the important piece is that this year,
we have this, of course, one-off Part D price resetting, if you want, but the volume growth further
supported by new indications for both Calquence and Tagrisso will really support well our growth
into '26 and beyond. So I think for those products, we can have a fairly optimistic outlook in the
U.S., but also beyond the U.S.
Susan, you want to take the second question?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `
Yes, sure. Thank you. So just as a reminder for AVANZAR, we have taken the learnings that we
had from TROPION-Lung01 and made changes to AVANZAR, which should include focusing on
the clinically meaningful benefit that we saw in TL01 in the non-squamous patient population, and
allowed us to enrich for that. And then what we also have done is embed the QCS biomarker.
So in terms of your question about that, the confidence that we have in QCS is based on our
understanding of the mechanism that we have with Datroway, which is dependent not just on the
surface expression of TROP2, but the amount that gets internalized. And that's embedded into
this NMR QCS positivity.
I also have said that the data that we have seen from the TROPION-Lung01, we have seen similar
trends in other data. I'll point out that we have an update on the TROPION-Lung02 data set that
will be presented at ASCO, which will include an analysis of the QCS data. And of course, that's
important because in TROPION-Lung02, it's the combination also of Imfinzi, and with an IO agent
and with the combination with platinum.
So I think, the confidence is built on seeing the similar effects in multiple data sets and
embedded on the mechanism that we understand for why Datroway is active and differentiated.
And in terms of Imfinzi activity, I think that the number of positive Imfinzi trials in a number of
different settings is further proof of the relevance of that mechanism of action. And again, we
have data in TROPION-Lung04 and TROPION-Lung02, which are very consistent across different
IO checkpoints inhibitors.
So, we remain confident in the combinability of Datroway with Imfinzi, and the application of that
into the important patient population in first-line non-small cell lung cancer.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. The next question is from `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan at JP Morgan. James, over to you.
Q - `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan `Hello, `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan, JP Morgan. Thanks for taking the questions. First question was on the oral
PCSK9. So you had strong Phase II data and you've announced the Phase III program today, and
flagged the $5 billion plus peak sales. But competitor injectable PCSK9 uptake has been slower
than originally anticipated. So can you talk about how you're now thinking in terms of how much
orals will expand the market and how dominant a share you think your product would have of the
oral opportunity to get to your $5 billion plus? What are you thinking there? And when this could
potentially launch? So you said what the three programs would be, but when could you have the
pivotal data? That's the first question, please.
Second question, U.S. manufacturing. So you source the majority of the U.S product from the U.S.
Are you considering any incremental U.S manufacturing investments? And could that be
accommodated within the existing circa $3 billion of CapEx per year? Or might you need to step
up? Or could it be about reallocation?
And then if I could just find a clarification on IRA and Part D redesign. So should we assume you
already had the full pricing mix hit in Q1, but we could see further volume expansion due to
greater affordability through the year. So you could actually see revenues accelerate for some of
these impacted products through the year? Or is it more like the absolute Q1 performance is the
new run rate? So you've got the pricing mix hit already, and you've had the volume uplift already.
So do things accelerate further through the year, or this is just the new normal already at Q1?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James. So that's not two, but three questions. Thank you. So the first one is oral, I
guess. Oral PCSK9, Sharon and Ruud, do you want to take this one? Aradhana, you can take the
second, and Dave, back to you for the third one.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, first of all, James, we need to realize that 70% of the patient population eligible for
cholesterol-lowering drugs are not at goal. So we firmly believe that a product like an oral PCSK9
will substantially unlock the opportunity in order to serve a very large population across the world.
The second part is that we all know that the injectables were facing quite a bit of an issue from an
access perspective. An oral PCSK9 probably will be priced at a lower level, and hence also in the
emerging markets where we have a very strong footprint, I think the oral PCSK9 will fulfill a huge
medical need.
And last but not least, I think the uniqueness of our oral PCSK9 is it's a true small molecule, and I
think Sharon articulated it very well. So we're also looking for, let's say, combinations of our oral
PCSK9s, for example, with our own Crestor or ezetimibe, and that makes, I think, the proposition
a potentially very big one.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So James, in terms of your question on CapEx and tariff-related and what incremental
investments there may be required, so two different things.
One is, as it relates to some -- the minority of the products that we do import from Europe into
the U.S., we're already starting to take action as it relates to tech transfers and building some of
the capacity there. But also note that we do have always a dual-source supply and so forth, and
also capacity within our existing facilities. So the incremental investment required for that to
happen will be manageable.In terms of the overall CapEx, so last year, as you know, we also announced a $3.5 billion CapEx
and investments in the U.S. We've said this year that our CapEx would be 50% higher than last
year. But going forward, we need to look at how the portfolio develops. So, for example, if the
oral GLP-1 is successful in Phase II, as the PCSK-9 progresses, as cami progresses, as baxdrostat
reads out, we will then start to plan for success for these molecules, and we'll build and manage
supply accordingly. Dave?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology Business Unit `
James, on your clarification question, so let me break down into the components. The first part is
that at the beginning of the plan year, as we moved from a co-pay cap of $3,300 to $2,000, we
saw an increase in the number of patients, or a reduced number of patients in free drug
program, an increase in the number of patients that came off of free drug, and into the
commercial program. I think that is a one-time effect that you won't see the volume grow over
the course of the year.
However, the reduced abandonment rate, I do think grows over the year, and very much the
revenue growth and the volume growth that we're seeing from FLAURA2, ADAURA, LAURA on
Tagrisso is growth that we'll continue to see moving forward from this new rebased level that
we're at, in terms of where the Part D impact came from reform.
I would also note that there is one other dimension on Calquence, and we'd spoken about this,
or I spoke about it last quarter. There are some contracting decisions that we took to secure
preferred formulary access. Those are one-time impacts in terms of gross to net that we
probably will see in the quarter, and we'll grow volume against that as we pull through those
contracts and get opportunity to really make sure that that preferred access is translating into
continued leadership in CLL.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
James, maybe if I can come back very, very briefly to your first question on PCSK9. I think it's
important to keep in mind, you have 24 million people, patients, people in the U.S., who have
cardiovascular disease. 70% of them are not a target. They have a cholesterol level above 70. So
it's a huge number of people who have established cardiovascular disease are not a target. And
then I'm not even speaking about the population that has elevated cholesterol above 100 in a
general population and are not treated.
So potential for an oral agent that is priced at the right level as Ruud explained is really very, very
large. So if our studies deliver, of course, that we have to have good results, but we have good
reasons to believe the product will deliver. The opportunity to help patients and grow the product
is quite enormous in the U.S., but also beyond.
Remember, injectable PCSK9 are great products, but in Europe, they're very limited in terms of
access because of cost mostly. So again, if we bring a product that is more affordable, the
potential there is quite enormous.
Shall we move to `Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs at Goldman Sachs? Rajan, over to you.
Q - `Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, sorry, hopefully you can hear me now, I forgot to unmute. So thanks for taking my questions.
Firstly, on DB09, could you just talk to the potential filing strategy there? Do you think you will file
the combination on before the monotherapy arm data are available?And then secondly, just on a follow-up actually to a comment that Susan made on ASCO data.
Just to clarify, will that be QCS biomarker analysis of OS from TROPION-Lung01 that's available at
ASCO? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Rajan. For you, Susan.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `
Okay. So just for the second one, just to clarify. What I was talking about, we're going to present
within the TROPION-Lung02 to data set biomarker data looking at the QCS biomarker within that
study, which I think will be helpful in addition to the data that we had from TROPION-Lung01.
And in terms of DESTINY-Breast09, obviously we're in discussions with regulatory authorities. As
we said, I think the data show a highly clinically meaningful result, and I think that will influence
regulators. But those discussions are ongoing. And we also, I would just say, are optimistic in
terms of the potential for presentation of DESTINY-Breast09 data at ASCO.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. `Sachin Jain, Bank of America, Bank of America. Over to you, Sachin.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
I have two questions, please. So firstly, Pascal, for you, just high level on U.S. pricing, any high level
perspectives on Trump executive order, and how you're thinking about U.S pricing, has been a lot
from yourself and others in the media. So if you could just touch on that?
And then secondly, for onc, I guess this is more for Dave, but SERENA-6, congrats on the plenary.
One of you could just reappraise this of how you're thinking about the commercial opportunity
relative to the $5 billion you framed for the molecule as a whole. Obviously, assuming the majority
is SERENA-4, but if you could just comment to how you're thinking about SERENA-6 size and
factors that we should be thinking around adoption in terms of testing, duration of therapy, et
cetera? Thanks a lot.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So maybe let me quickly comment on the first question, Sachin. I mean, U.S pricing, of course, lots
of potential outcomes here, but it's not very easy to comment because nobody really knows. But
it is clear that this is an issue that will be on the top of screen of many people.
The reality, I think, is that there has to be a rebalancing. In fact, the U.S has been funding
innovation for our industry for a long time. And we believe that Europe has to invest a greater
share of their healthcare expenses, and that share has been declining steadily over the last
number of years, down to 7% of healthcare budget being allocated to innovative medicines in the
UK.
What can you do with 7% of your healthcare cost allocated to innovative medicines? Of course,
not much. So the investment in innovation and pharmaceuticals in Europe has to go up. And what
that means is, for some products, higher prices that are closer to higher suddenly than they are
today, maybe closer to the U.S. But importantly, also faster access and better access for patients.So, at the end of the day, what happens in the U.S., we'll have to see. Of course, there are
ongoing discussions, as you can imagine. But I really think the key piece is that Europe, at least
the richer countries in Europe, have to contribute more to pharmaceuticals innovation, just like
they have to contribute more to their own defense. So it's a reallocation of GDP, which actually, in
terms of pharmaceutical innovation, would be relatively modest, but that would enable a lot of
accelerated access and certainly a pricing level that would enable to rebalance in the funding of
that innovation between the U.S and Europe.
And second question, Dave, do you want to cover that?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology Business Unit `
Yeah, so cami, broadly, and really talking about the SERENA-6 opportunity. So, I mean, as we think
about camizestrant, Sachin, obviously, the program comprises early adjuvant breast cancer trials,
as well as metastatic studies. I think that if we're able to unlock an opportunity within the adjuvant
setting and within SERENA-4, to the point that you raised, that really is going to do the lion's share
of the work to get us to that $5 billion plus.
But SERENA-6 is such an important study. And the reason it's important is that there's 85,000
patients with frontline drug-treated hormone receptor positive HER2 negative metastatic breast
cancer in the G7, and two-thirds of those patients are considered endocrine therapy sensitive.
And they're treated today with a CDK4/6 and an ET in the frontline setting. And we know that
30% of those -- so this is a pretty significant number, developed the ESR1 mutation during the
course of their frontline treatment. And that ESR1 mutation is something that can be today
detected with NGS testing. And NGS, at least in the United States, is fairly common among this
population.
So, there is going to be work that we're going to need to do to incorporate this testing as part of
the regular blood work that's being done. But the access to the test and the test itself is
something that is already incorporated into the workflow and into the practice. And it allows for us
to, in addition to moving earlier than the other next-generation SERDs, which gives us an
opportunity for early experiences, I think the likelihood that those experiences are going to be
good ones is high. And I also think that the fact that we can use this on a backbone of multiple
CDK4/6s is also really important. So, those are the elements of SERENA-6 that I think are most
noteworthy.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe to add back again to your earlier question, Sachin, I want to make sure that
everybody understands. This price difference between the U.S and Europe is not true for every
product. I mean, there are lots of products that have similar net prices. I mean, in Europe, you
have a single price. In the U.S., you have commercial, you have Medicare, you have VA/DoD, you
have also Medicaid.
And then in commercial and Part D, we provide a large amount of rebates. And those rebates can
be very, very large for some products. So, if you look at things on a net basis, net of rebates,
incorporating Medicaid, VA/DoD and sort of calculate a net price for the United States that you
could compare to the price in Europe. For many medicines the difference is actually very small,
and sometimes zero actually, no difference or very little. So really we're talking about a few
products. And as I said, Europe has to fund this innovation in a better way.
`Steve Scala, Cowen and Company at Cowen. Over to you, Steve.Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen and Company `
Thank you so much. I have two questions. Pascal, to sum up your tariff commentary in the
prepared remarks, is it fair to say that under all contemplated scenarios, and in light of
AstraZeneca's actions over the next two to three years, tariffs are not material at the group level?
Is that -- is that a fair conclusion?
Then the second question is for Dave, on DB09. The press release stated that safety was
consistent with the known profile of Enhertu, but it could be argued that in first-line setting, it
needs to be better, especially regarding ILD. So what should be our expectations for the full
dataset? And will DB09 contribute to sales in 2025? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank, Steve. So quick, the first question. I mean, I'm not a -- I'm not able to forecast it with
potential scenario. In the world we live in, we have to assume any scenario is possible, even
scenarios we can't even imagine today. So it's hard to answer your question.
But what I can say is that, yes, I mean within a period of time, which may be two years, any impact
we have would actually be managed. As I said first of all the impact is not is limited, but
importantly the impact we have is time limited, because we are redeployed -- redeploying
manufacturing. Instead of globalizing the manufacturing of one product in the U.S. for the world,
or in Europe for the world, we can actually share, and sort of manufacture one product for the
U.S. in the U.S., and the rest in Europe and vice versa. So we have -- because of our cap -- our
network, we have the ability to shift manufacturing around. So, yes, within a relatively short period
of time, I mean basically these issues could be managed, and are certainly not material long-
term. As we -- based on what we can see today.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology Business Unit `
Steve on your DB09 question, I mean, you'll -- you'll have to go to the presentation to get into
the details on the specific data within it. But I do think that what I would point to is that when we
speak to the results being statistically significant and clinically meaningful, that is an overall
assessment of the benefit-risk. And I think that the trend in overall survival that we commented to
is also something that underscores the entire benefit-risk within that population.
This is a very important study, 25,000 G7 frontline drug-treated HER2-positive patients. This is a
study in a broad population. And on your question on use in 2025, obviously we won't promote to
anything before it's approved. We certainly do know that guidelines and presentations can result
in markets, particularly the U.S., where it's allowed for spontaneous use. But we'll have to see
what the reaction is to the data after it's presented.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken at Handelsbanken. Mattias, over to you.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Handelsbanken `
Thanks so much. Two questions, please. Firstly, for Pascal, on tariffs and drug pricing, but perhaps
a different angle. Over the last couple of years, a handful of members, including AstraZeneca,
has left different industry associations like PhRMA. In recent weeks, we've seen a number of
individual PhRMA executives share their perspective on the best path forward.My question goes, to what extent do you anticipate the industry to come together more in the
near future, in order to perhaps better leverage its message to different stakeholders and up the
odds of a favorable path forward for the industry?
And then secondly, for Aradhana, it's now almost a year since the company shared its $80 billion
revenue target for 2030, an ambition sometimes described as conservative within the
investment community. From your perspective, any particular areas you'd like to point us to where
the company's internal modeling still deviates materially from company-compiled consensus?
Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
It's interesting to hear the $80 billion as conservative. First time I hear it as described as
conservative, Mattias, but it's still nice to hear that you believe in our portfolio. So I'll leave that
answer to Aradhana.
The tariffs, yes, I think the industry's coming together. I mean, basically, we have a couple of
issues to resolve as an industry. One is tariffs, and of course, there are ongoing discussions that
are industry discussions. But the other piece is, I think what is really important long term, it's
probably less relevant near term, but it's mid to long term relevant, is addressing this imbalance
that exists between Europe and the U.S as it relates to funding innovative medicines.
Again, as I said, it's a question for Europe, it's a question of sovereignty and health sovereignty
for their European citizens. It's not only a question of price. People think it's a question of price
sometimes. No, it's also a question of delay. I mean, in many countries in Europe, patients have to
wait two years, three years to get access, or it's very restrictive.
So, I think with a reasonably modest increase of the share of GDP allocated to innovative
medicines, a lot of these things could be addressed and disappear. And I think that's an issue the
industry is addressing collectively, and I believe, I hope that we can continue working together to
address those two issues.
Aradhana?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So, yes, thank you so much for your confidence in our $80 billion number. We are working hard to
achieve that. I think as we've mentioned both this time and when we announced our full-year
results, 2025 will really be a very important year. And this time next year, we should have a very
good sense of where we stand on the trajectory to that $80 billion ambition.
The $80 billion is a risk-adjusted number, so this year we will be reading out several studies,
multiple in the rare disease portfolio, several in the biopharma portfolio and, of course, in
oncology, as well as the oral GLP product, which is in Phase II. So, again, not everything will work,
but on a risk-adjusted basis, by this time next year, we'll have a very good idea and confidence as
to where we are on that $80 billion ambition.
To your question on where we see variances versus our own plan, I think there are multiple
products, particularly in the biopharma portfolio. I think some of the respiratory products, some of
the CVRM products, the oral PCSK9, I think now people are starting to appreciate that
opportunity, the amyloidosis. So I think there are several products in the biopharma and the rare
disease portfolio, as well as in the oncology portfolio, I think we're not really getting any credit for
the investments we're making in our own ADC pipeline that Susan highlighted, as well as otherSo, there are several areas of variances, but those are the major ones. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana. `Matthew Weston, UBS, UBS. Matthew, over to you.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you, Pascal. Two questions, please. The first for Susan on AVANZAR. Based on our
feedback, a lot of investors are nervous, and would like to basically see this one out of the way,
so they can concentrate on the rest of the rich catalyst path that you and Pascal laid out. Now,
clearly you might disagree, but I wonder if there's any color you can give us on how events are
tracking, and when we might see the data within the second half of the year?
And then a second one for Aradhana, please. The 2024 Annual Report calls out $561 million of
benefit of intellectual property incentive regimes in your tax paid. President Trump has called out
low U.S tax payment by pharma as a frustration alongside manufacturing locations. Pascal
obviously has made the reassuring comments around manufacturing and tariffs, but have you had
any interaction with U.S. authorities on how you use IP licenses to take profit out of the U.S.?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So, AVANZAR, Susan, you could cover this, and of course, Aradhana, second one. I don't want to
steal the Aradhana's thunder, but I think it's important maybe to signal that, of our distribution of
taxes around the world, in the U.S., we have a fair amount of our proportion of taxes paid in the
U.S. So I don't think we are in a position where people could say we are optimizing tax to the
extent we don't pay our fair share of taxes in the U.S. We do pay our fair share of taxes in the U.S.
I'm sure Aradhana doesn't want to give the details, but I can tell you we pay our fair share of
taxes in the U.S.
AVANZAR for Susan, and the second question, Aradhana?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `
Yes, thank you, Matthew. So, in terms of AVANZAR, just a couple of things. AVANZAR accrued
ahead of time, which shows the enthusiasm that the investigative population had for this study.
We guide by half, and we do expect the results in the second half of this year, and I see no
reason why that's going to be delayed beyond the end of the year.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
On your second question, as Pascal mentioned, we do pay our fair share of taxes in proportion to
our revenues in the U.S. We do take advantage, obviously, of transfer prices, but I think the
numbers you are mentioning that are mentioned in the annual report relate much more to things
like patent boxes, and where governments do provide incentives for research and so forth and
R&D funding. So, we're always trying to optimize how we manage and plan our taxes globally. So,
that's all the detail we can provide at this time.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Matthew, I mean, I don't think I would disagree with you that AVANZAR is an important event for
us this year, but we have many other events. Baxdrostat is another major event. We have major,
quite a number of major events throughout the year in the pipeline. We've already de-risked amajor one with DB09, of course. So, it's an important event. I don't disagree, and we all are
waiting for that readout for sure, but we have many others.
So, next question is from `Justin Smith, Bernstein at Bernstein.
Q - `Justin Smith, Bernstein `
Thanks very much. Just a quick one for Marc, Ultomiris. Just wondered if you could just provide a
bit more color with regards to increased competition. Is that potentially due to price? Just asking
because obviously one of your competitors particularly in the MG space is emphasizing that more
innovation should be driving market expansion. Many thanks.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
So the -- first of all, thank you for the question. The competition that we have is obviously from
Ultomiris is mostly from novel medicines. The category of myasthenia gravis, as an example, has
grown dramatically over the last three or four years. The branded part of the market is growing
very strongly every year.
The Ultomiris has a key position in this market, but obviously other mechanisms have an attraction
for people who are switching from the steroids or immunosuppressant as a first-line treatment.
Ultomiris is also competing in that segment, but it's not the only mechanism available. So, we
have -- it's mostly a competition from novel medicine rather than biosimilars. Biosimilars obviously
competes against Soliris, but as we have now converted mostly Soliris to Ultomiris in the four
indications, this -- the competition in the future will be coming from the novel medicines.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim at Guggenheim. Over to you, Seamus.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim `
Thanks for the question. So, two quick questions. So, Pascal, you commented on the pricing
dynamics and concerns that have been raised, but you haven't commented on the opportunity
for the HHS Secretary to work with Congress to align the incentives for small molecules with large
molecules. Just wondering your thoughts on that, as well as kind of a backward-looking dynamic
with regard to already negotiated small molecules in the context, including Calquence.
And then, separately, just wanted to ask a little bit for directional predictions that you believe
DB09 may have, as it relates to potential success of Enhertu in the adjuvant setting? Thanks so
much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Seamus. Yes, I mean, the first point, thank you for reminding us of this. I mean, it is
definitely -- I mean, Congress still has to vote on this, of course, and confirm it. But it is definitely
something that goes in the right direction for the industry in general, and for us in particular.
I mean, of course, there are existing medicines, but I can think of camizestrant, which would be a
very major medicine, we believe, which will only benefit from this.
I think also we can take heart of what we could see as potential willingness to address this 340B
issues. I mean, it is something that, we as an industry, but certainly we as a company, have been
pushing back on, because we believe that a number of participants have been abusing this 340Bregulation, and it was nice to see that there is a report now that has been provided to the
Congress that confirms what we have been saying for a long time.
So there's a couple of things that actually are going in the right direction, you're absolutely right,
and I think the industry would benefit and we would benefit. DB09? Susan, do you want to cover
that?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `
Yes, sure. So just as a reminder, in the DB09 study, you're taking on a three-drug regimen there. I
think the fact that we've seen highly statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement
with a combination of pertuzumab and Enhertu speaks to the power of Enhertu to address that,
and builds on the data that we've had with DB03, DB04 and DB06.
If you look at the other early trials, DB11 is in patients that are in the neoadjuvant setting, and
again aims to improve on the current standard of care in that neoadjuvant setting which has
multiple drugs, it's actually five drugs is the current standard of care with AC as well as the THP
regimen.
And then DB05 is in patients who have residual disease after surgery, so post-neoadjuvant, and
around half of those are considered high-risk, which is the node-positive patients. So that's a
subgroup where the KATHERINE trial with the trastuzumab DM1 demonstrated less benefit. And
given the DB03 data where we've already had a head-to-head comparison with that, we do
believe that Enhertu can make a difference in both of those settings. So I hope that gives you
context for the potential readouts for DB05 and DB11.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. Our next question is from `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic at Redburn. Over to you, Simon. You
may be on mute.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic `
Can you hear me now?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Go ahead. Thank you.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic `
I just spazzed out. I hit the wrong button. Two questions, if I may, please. Firstly, one for Dave. You
talked about the gradual impact on discontinuation rates from Part D redesign. I appreciate it's a
bit early to start talking about what the impact is, but could you talk about the point from which
we start in terms of where we are now in terms of financially motivated discontinuation rates?
And then secondly, one for Sharon, I noticed from the trial appendix that MEDI1814 in Alzheimer's
and MEDI0618 in migraine have both been removed from the pipeline. As far as I can see, that
removes all neuroscience assets from the biopharma pipeline. Is that just coincidence, or does
that mark a strategic shift in R&D priorities? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave?A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology Business Unit `
Simon, we have seen in the past, and we haven't given specific percentages on this, but we've
seen, I would say, kind of an important minority of the total oral packs that we ship are historically
free drug that we ship. And so those are things that historically we've seen as abandonment.
Now whether or not that's been abandoned at the first script, or that's at a refill, because there's
a discontinuation that happens down the road, that's much more difficult to parse out. But we've
absolutely seen, and we've put into place a number of measures as co-pay capping came down
from uncapped to last year's $3,300 to this year's $2,000. We have absolutely seen a reduction
in that free goods utilization.
I don't have a big expectation of seeing a lot of further improvement in free goods because it's
really come down pretty significantly. I think that the best opportunities for us to grow coming
from here is going to be as always new indications.
Tagrisso continuing to drive FLORA2, LAURA, ADAURA; AMPLIFY and ECHO on Calquence. That's
our opportunities to really come from this re-baselined spot that we're at to now drive growth
from here over the course of the period of the multiple quarters that sit in front of us.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. And just to repeat again, so that you don't forget this, the message is, Tagrisso
is growing by 20% in volume. Calquence by more than 20% in volume. So take this, and this
momentum, add what Dave just said in terms of new indications, and you can imagine that as we
weather this Part D repricing, which is a one-off this year, that will take us into '26, '27 with a
renewed momentum for these very important medicines. Sharon?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals R&D `
Thanks for the question, Simon. In R&D, prioritization is always important. So as you noticed, we
have closed our neuro programs and identified partners for some of them. This represents a
closure of our neuroscience group at AstraZeneca, and importantly, it allows us to focus on our
core therapeutic areas and fund our high-value programs. You've heard our excitement about
things like weight management, about dyslipidemia, about our very important respiratory
portfolio, and our growth in immunology. And so this prioritization helps us to reinvest in the
programs that we think are important for AstraZeneca.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. Yes, we have things that you haven't seen yet because they're in early
development, and we don't speak much about this, but things like inhaled biologics, the immune
portfolio that has been really progressing, and it's shaping up nicely. So there's a lot of things we
can fund, and we cannot be everywhere. So CNS really is probably better managed by other
companies that have a focus on that.
`Rajesh Kumar, HSBC, HSBC. Rajesh, over to you.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Hi there, thanks for taking the question. Just on PCSK9, if you could give us some idea on the
timelines of when are we expecting the trials and updates, and in terms of the development
timelines. Similarly on SERENA-6 as well, filing timelines if we have any clarity on that one?And a second slightly broader question, appreciate there's a lot of interest on AVANZAR, and we
are all nervously waiting for the readout. But we can easily confuse the details for the bigger
picture. So can you elucidate your broader strategy around that, or what -- where do you think,
what is the total potential of the product across indications? And how do you see that develop?
Would appreciate that. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
First question maybe Sharon, you can take, SERENA-6 for Susan, and the last one is for you, Dave,
I guess.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. So thank you for your interest in PCSK9. You hear our excitement about this molecule and as
I mentioned today we are launching three Phase III studies and moving at pace. We expect to
have our pivotal study in LDL lowering initiated by the end of this year. Now we won't comment
broadly on the readout timelines for these pivotal studies, but you heard us tell you that we're
moving forward with a sense of urgency, that we are running a combined primary and secondary
outcome study, and that we think that we'll be able to launch with our LDL lowering study while
moving ahead in parallel with our outcome study that will help facilitate market uptake. So
continue to watch this space.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology Business Unit `
So, Rajesh, on the bigger picture question on Datroway, and I appreciate you asking it. I mean, I
think that, understandably, because AVANZAR is the first frontline lung cancer study to read out,
there's a lot of interest within it.
But I do think it's important to not look at it just within isolation. There's multiple opportunities for
Datro as a monotherapy, particularly as we take a look at studies like TL17 that now look at
prospective definition of a biomarker population. And Susan commented on this before, and
we've quite a lot in the past.
The work that we've done with the QCS biomarker, I think, is really evidence to how we're
leveraging this convergence of science, data, and technology to be able to try to better and
more precisely identify patients who can benefit, potentially, from Datroway. Also, though, in
combination, and there's multiple combinations that we look at. There's combinations with IO.
There's also combinations with Tagrisso and EGFR mutated. And we're looking at combinations,
not just with PD-1, PD-L1, but also with our bispecific portfolio.
So I think that that's the context within which I'd put Datro, we are underway already in the U.S. in
breast cancer. I would note that we are seeing that over half of the accounts that have placed
their first order for Datroway have also had repeat utilization. So that's a really encouraging sign.
And it also underscores the high unmet need and willingness to be able to bring a more precise
chemotherapy with a profile like Datroway's to replace classical chemotherapy in settings where
classical chemotherapy has long been relied upon.
And I guess Pascal made the last point, which is let's not look at it in isolation. There's an entire
portfolio of many readouts that we've got an opportunity also. And you've already seen whether
it's MATTERHORN, SERENA-6, DB09, AMPLIFY, that also go alongside that.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
`Luisa Hector, Berenberg, Berenberg. Luisa, over to you.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `
Hang on a second. Pascal --
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Oh, sorry. Yes, SERENA-6, Susan, go ahead, yes.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `
So thank you for the question about SERENA-6, but we're very excited to see the data come to
the ASCO plenary. And I think selection for the ASCO plenary just reflects what they -- that we're
seeing about the overall benefit-risk that's seen in that trial. So obviously, as we always do when
we've got a readout, we'll be in discussions with regulatory authorities, and I can't comment on
that specifically, because that's ongoing.
But what I would say is that when you see compelling data, first of all, we will work very diligently
to get the submission happening rapidly. And then we'll also get, we've had other examples of
when we see compelling data, we get opportunities for things like priority review. So, let's wait
and see how that progresses, and I'm very happy to talk about the SERENA-6 data once you've
seen the data at ASCO.
And if I could just take one more opportunity, I just wanted to say that as well, the overall
enthusiasm from investigators about the camizestrant program is substantial. The adjuvant
studies are a really exciting opportunity, and I'm very pleased to share that we've actually
achieved our target sample size in the CAMBRIA-1 study just very recently, which is also ahead of
plan. So I think it just reflects the enthusiasm that we're seeing about this overall program. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So I'm sure you've all heard that Susan loves camizestrant. So, Luisa, over to you now.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Thank you, Pascal. I have two questions, please. On obesity, has your perspective on the market
and AstraZeneca's potential role in that market evolved given recent competitor data? And then
on China, thank you for the update there in the press release. Do you think we can draw a line
here under all the investigations, or is there anything else we should have in mind as we go
through the year?
And perhaps just a quick comment on your market shares holding up in Q1 in China, is that all
intact? And your latest expectations on the timing of Farxiga VBP? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Ruud, do you want to take the first one?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Absolutely. So, Luisa, we are very excited about our weight management portfolio. Last time,portfolio. I think our oral GLP-1 potentially is fit for purpose in order to combine it with other
products in our portfolio, clearly our SGLT2.
The market size in itself is very, very substantial, as you know yourself very well. Analysts are
forecasting anything between $50 billion and $150 billion. And I think our strategy is differentiated
in such a way that, yes, we are looking in what we call the hard core obesity markets of patients
with a BMI of over 35. But equally, patients with a BMI between 27 and slightly above that are
going to benefit substantially from losing a certain amount of weight. And if you combine that
with other products in our portfolio, whether it is potentially an oral PCSK9 and SGLT2, I think we
have a very powerful combination, not only in order to reduce weight, but also to move to
protection of different organs.
Now, having said that, I think the other opportunity is clearly the footprint we are having in the
emerging markets. The likelihood that an oral PCSK9 will be priced at a lower level versus the
current available injectables is a reasonable assumption, and hence, we're also aiming for a very
large population in the emerging markets.
So all in all, very exciting. Of course, the ongoing Phase II trials are running as we speak, both in
obesity and diabetes. So we need to wait for that. But we are ready to move with speed to start
our Phase III trials if the data is successful.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. I mean, just maybe one additional point is that, as Ruud said, we have a big
footprint. Our mission is always to try and bring our medicines to as many people as possible.
And if you look at the cholesterol market, the PCSK9 market, it's a good parallel. Injectable
PCSK9 are great products, but outside the U.S., I mean, their penetration is more limited because
of cost and injections. So an oral agent will enable us to bring this type of medicines to a lot more
patients around the world.
The other benefit, maybe, to add is that an oral agent is probably a better option in terms of
compliance long term. I think overweight or obesity are chronic conditions. You have to take those
medicines for a long, long time. Otherwise, you regain weight, and we've seen this over and over
again. So an oral agent that you take in combination with your other medicines is more likely to
enable patients to stay on treatment for a long period of time, especially if the price is
affordable, of course.
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice President, International `
So thanks, Luisa, for the question. Let me first start with a comment on the update on the
investigation. As you recognize, we announced two important updates in our results
announcement. And from what we know, Custom Office and Public Security Bureau have really
concluded their respective investigation, both related to the drug importation allegations as well
as the personal information infringement allegation. And these cases have now been referred to
the Prosecutor.
Important update that we provided in our results announcement is that we have been informed
that there was no illegal gain to the company from the personal information infringement
allegations.
On your second question about the market share, as you saw in our quarter one announcement,
we saw the strong performance in China, strong quarter in China, with 5% of the growth. And our
underlying business is basically performing even better, because if you adjust for the Pulmicort,which is declining due to the low infection season and the market decline, our underlying business
in China is growing 9%. And that is driven primarily by the continuous strong performance of
Farxiga. And I would argue outstanding launch of it, and here to follow by inclusion in NRDL in the
January, and our ability to basically achieve 800 hospital listings in the first quarter, and clearly
help a lot of patients with huge unmet needs in China in that space.
On top of that, we are seeing continuous improvement of the market share. We are still leading
in the respiratory field, both with Symbicort and Breztri. We see very encouraging data and
market share increase from Breztri as well as the improvement in the usage of the triple therapy.
And given the huge unmet need in China related to the COPD, we do see that -- we do see a
huge unmet need going forward.
When we look at other important growth drivers, as you all know, Tagrisso is an important growth
driver in China and we do see continuous growth of Tagrisso given by the new indication as well
as improvement in the market share despite a fearless competition and six third-generation TKIs
from the local companies that are available in the market.
So all in all, we feel very comfortable and confident in the team performance in the first quarter,
and as we always talked about, we feel confident and comfortable with the opportunity going
forward in China, given the unmet need and given our portfolio and pipeline that fits that need.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Iskra. Maybe just to add something that Iskra will not tell you because she's modest,
but she's done an amazing job and the team is very motivated. Locally [ph] was there not long
ago, and it's important because that's really what is going to sustain our growth moving forward.
The team has gone through a period of trauma, as you can imagine. We've all been sort of
traumatized by this event, but people have quickly recovered, and they're very much focused on
delivering on our goals, and everybody is very committed and very energized today.
Maybe we'll take the last question. `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas at BNP. Peter, over to you.
Q - `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas `
Yes. Thanks, Pascal. `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas, BNP. Two questions. Firstly, for you, we've seen the first PDUFA
delay from FDA this week that wasn't due to the need for further clinical or manufacturing data.
So just in light of all the personnel changes, are you noticing any worrying disruptions or delays
with respect to Astra's interaction with the agency?
And then, look, I know you already called it out, but we had a question lined up about baxdrostat
ahead of that upcoming Phase III readout, does the sort of recent Lorundrostat data from
Mineralys, is that the right way of thinking about setting the bar, or are you hoping to show
something more? I just wanted to get a sense of your expectations going into that readout.
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So can I propose maybe, Susan, you cover the first question in general, and then Sharon, if you
have anything to add to FDA, and you can also cover baxdrostat.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology Haematology R&D `Yes, thank you. So obviously we continue to monitor the situation, but just based on the facts, we
haven't seen any delays in the interactions that we've had with the FDA across our programs to
date.
Just to remind you that NIAGARA was approved ahead of the PDUFA date. We have multiple
interactions with the FDA across our extensive portfolio, and all of those meetings are happening
in the timelines that we would expect, and with the level of interaction that we would expect.
Thank you.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals R&D `
So with regards to the FDA, I will echo Susan's comments that to date, we have had on-time
conversations with the regulatory authorities, and to date we haven't seen delays. That said, we
continue to be very alert to this, and continue to move forward with our programs with a sense of
urgency.
To address your question about baxdrostat, in light of the Mineralys data that was revealed
earlier this month, we first think it's very encouraging to see momentum in aldosterone-targeted
therapies. It validates the critical unmet medical need that we have been focused on for some
time. We think that this is a valuable mechanism of action in which we are targeting aldosterone at
its source, which we think is a very important mechanism for helping to control hypertension.
We continue to believe that our molecule, baxdrostat, has the potential to be best in class, and
has a very competitive profile. We've shown data for this in Brighton, where we saw a placebo-
corrected reduction of 11 millimeters of mercury in systolic blood pressure at the 2 milligram dose.
With this molecule, we think we are seeing impressive mercury lowering at a low dose. This sets
us up well for treatment with both monotherapy and combinations.
Our molecule has a half-life that is at least double that of competitors', and we think that's really
important for 24-hour control of hypertension. And we don't see clinically relevant drug-drug
interactions with baxdrostat, which, again, we think highlights its potential to be a best-in-class
molecule. So we think we're in a very competitive position. We look forward to reading out the
Phase III pivotal data for BaxHTN later this year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. So I'd like to maybe conclude that first of all, thanking you for all your interest
and your great questions.
And maybe in closing, just like to say again, we have started very well the 2025. We have a
growth momentum that continues. We're on track to achieve our expectations and our guidance,
and importantly we are entering a catalyst-rich period.
As we said many times before, by the end of this year or early next year, we'll have a very good
sense for the driving factors for our growth to 2030. So far, so good. We have five positive Phase
III studies, in particular important ones like SERENA-6, MATTERHORN, and of course more recently
DB09. We've had 13, 1-3 regulatory approvals across the major regions in the quarter.
Our revenue is up 10%, and very much on track with what we expect. Our expenses are well
managed, and I know there's been a focus on SG&A, so I'd like to attract your attention that
SG&A grew by 5%, even though we have many launches, so everybody is really working hard to
manage those launches and control SG&A growth. And as a result, our operating profit is up 12%,
and our EPS, 21%.So that really is a series of messages I wanted to leave you with, because again we are very
much on track. So with that, thank you so much again, and I wish you a good rest of the day.