S1 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon, and welcome to AstraZeneca's H1 and Q2, 2025 Webinar for Investors and
Analysts. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor Statement. The
company intends to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Participants on this call may make forward looking statements with respect to the operations and
financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our expectations are based on
reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties, and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements.
Any forward looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information available
at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward looking
statements. Please also carefully review the forward looking statements disclaimer in the slide
deck that accompanies this presentation and webcast.
There will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentations. Please use the raise a
hand feature to indicate you wish to ask a question at any time during the call.
Now with that, I'd now like to hand the conference over to the Head of Investor Relations at
AstraZeneca, Andy Barnett.`Andrew P. Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
A warm welcome, everybody, to AstraZeneca's half year and second quarter 2025 presentation,
conference call and webcast for investors and analysts. I'm Andy Barnett, Head of Investor
Relations. And before I hand over to Pascal and other members of the executive team, I'd like to
cover some important housekeeping items.
Firstly, all of the materials presented today are available on our AstraZeneca Investor Relations
website. This slide contains our safe harbor statement, which I'd encourage you to take the time
to read.
We will be making comments on our performance using constant exchange rates or CER, core
financial numbers and other non-GAAP measures. A non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliation is
contained within the results announcement. And all numbers quoted are in millions of U.S. Dollars
unless stated otherwise.
This slide shows our agenda for today's call. Following the prepared remarks, we will open the
line for questions. As usual, we'll try and address as many questions as we can during the allotted
time, although please limit the number of questions that you ask to allow others a fair chance to
participate in the Q&A.
And with that, I'll hand the call over to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy, and welcome, everyone. I'm pleased to report that our strong growth
momentum and excellent pipeline delivery continued through the first half of 2025. In the first six
months of the year, total revenue grew by 11%, driven by continued demand for innovative
medicines. Core EPS grew 17%, reflecting the importance we place upon investing in our pipeline
while driving operating leverage across our company.
Since our full year results in February, we've achieved 19 regulatory approvals in key regions. And
the pace at which we are bringing new medicines to patients around the world continues to
accelerate. In the year-to-date, our pipeline delivery has been excellent. We've already
announced the results of 12 positive Phase III trials this year, including the first pivotal data for five
new molecular entities. In the past few weeks alone, we communicated the high-level results for
baxdrostat and gefurulimab, which both represent important potential contributors to our 2030
ambition. Please move to the next slide.
Our diverse broad based business continues to present an attractive risk profile, resilient to
regional disruption. And I'm pleased to report once again that we saw strong growth across
therapy areas and geographies. In the first half, we saw double-digit growth across oncology and
biopharmaceuticals, and a return to growth for our rare disease business in the second quarter,
which was up 7%. We also saw robust growth across geographies, particularly in the U.S. and the
emerging markets outside of China. Underlying demand also remained strong across other
regions, including in China, where the growth rate continues to be affected by PULMICORT [ph]
generics.
Next slide, please. We continue to progress through a catalyst-rich period, and we've already
announced multiple high-value trials, with many more to come throughout the remainder of the
year and into 2026. In oncology, we continue to grow our leading position in breast cancer,
reinforced by positive trial results for camizestrant in SERENA-6, and Enhertu in the DESTINY-Breast09 and DESTINY-Breast11 trials. We are also expanding our presence in gastrointestinal and
bladder cancers with the MATTERHORN and POTOMAC trials of Imfinzi.
In addition, we saw positive overall survival data from FLAURA2 for Tagrisso plus chemotherapy,
consolidating our leading position in EGFR-mutated lung cancer. In biopharmaceuticals, the
KALOS/LOGOS program has the potential to bring Breztri into uncontrolled asthma, and the
BaxHTN trial for baxdrostat represents an exciting opportunity to redefine treatment for patients
with hard-to-treat hypertension.
Finally, our rare disease pipeline is making excellent progress. We recently announced readouts
for the CARES program of anselamimab in severe light-chain amyloidosis, and a PREVAIL trial for
gefurulimab in gMG. Including the trials highlighted here, the Phase III readouts in 2025 have the
combined potential to generate well over $10 billion in peak year revenue on a risk-adjusted
basis.
And this is why I've said many times in the past, by the end of this year, early next year, you will
have a very good sense of the direction in terms of our $80 billion target for 2030, which we
believe we're on track to achieve at this stage.
Next slide, please. We continue to make exciting progress with our transformative technologies,
which have the potential to drive our growth well beyond 2030. At ASCO this year, we shared the
first combination data for our IO bispecific rilvegostomig in combination with Datroway, as we
seek to displace both first-generation IO checkpoint inhibitors, as well as traditional
chemotherapy. Since ASCO, we've moved yet another ADC using our proprietary platform into
the clinic, furthering our ambition to replace chemotherapy across a broad range of cancer types.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Aradhana.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal, and good morning, afternoon, everyone. As usual, I will start with our reported
P&L. Next slide, please. As Pascal highlighted, total revenue increased by 11% in the first half.
Product sales increased by 10%, with sustained strong momentum across key brands, and
Alliance revenue was up 38%, driven by growth in shared profits of Enhertu, Tezspire, and
Beyfortus in regions where our partners book product sales.
Next slide, please. Turning to our core P&L, we saw a total revenue gross margin of 83% in the
first half, benefiting from product sales mix and favorable FX impact in the first quarter, with
somewhat reverse in the second quarter. As previously stated, we anticipate that the total
revenue for gross margin will decline by around 60 to 70 basis points in 2025, driven by factors
such as Medicare Part D redesign, Soliris biosimilar competition, and increased profit share
related to partner products. We anticipate a gross margin in the second half of the year driven by
these factors, as well as the usual seasonal pattern for medicines such as FluMist.
Total operating expenses increased by 9% in the first half, below top-line growth of 11%. Core
R&D costs increased by 17% and represented 23% of total revenue, driven by accelerated
recruitment into our clinical trials, the additional costs relating to medicines acquired through
business development, and a step-up of investments in transformative technologies.
As mentioned at our ASCO event in June, we now anticipate core R&D costs for the full year to
land at the upper end of the low 20s percentage range of total revenue. Core SG&A costs
increased by 3%, growing at a much smaller rate than total revenue. We are anticipating
continued operating leverage and margin improvement this year. Similar to prior years, we expecta lower margin in the second half, primarily relating to the gross margin effects previously
mentioned. Core tax rate was 18% in the first half, which benefited from a favorable settlement in
the first quarter, and is anticipated to remain 18% to 22% for the full year. Core EPS of $4.66
represents 17% growth.
Next slide, please. As I just mentioned, the increase in R&D costs was driven in part by
accelerated clinical trial recruitment, with more than 50% of our trials recruiting significantly ahead
of plan. We have seen a growing number of patients in our clinical trials, and by the end of the
second quarter, the total had reached 56,000 patients. We also saw increased investments in
our transformative technologies, including in our IO bispecifics, our in-house ADCs, cell therapy,
as well as our growing portfolio in cardiovascular renal medicines.
We continue to make investments not only to achieve our 2030 ambitions, but also to drive
continued growth beyond 2030. Given the breadth and depth of our portfolio, we anticipate R&D
costs to remain in the low 20s percentage range of total revenue for the longer term.
On the SG&A side, I'm pleased to report that we're making great progress, and I would like to
thank all our teams globally. We are seeing productivity gains from initiatives undertaken in the
last few years, including the redeployment of resources, utilization of shared service centers, and
investments in digital and AI, all of which have led to SG&A costs increasing by only 3% in the first
six months, despite the high number of new launches.
Next slide, please. We are reiterating our guidance for the year, where we anticipate high-single
digit percentage increase in revenue and low-double digit percentage increase in EPS. We have
had strong performance in the first half and expect that momentum to continue in our core
products. But note that the Brilinta LOE, Soliris biosimilar, and products like FluMist are more
second half weighted, and there's uncertainty regarding Farxiga. Also note that the year-on-year
growth rate in the second half will be skewed by the $600 million Lynparza-related milestone
received in the fourth quarter of 2024. Net cash flow from operating activities increased by 27%
to $7.1 billion in the first half.
As previously communicated, we expect CapEx to increase by 50% this year, with $1.3 billion
spent in year-to-date. As a reminder, our total CapEx, including both tangible and software-
related intangible assets, was $2.2 billion last year. Earlier this month, we announced a new multi-
billion-dollar manufacturing facility in the U.S. that will produce drug substance for innovative
weight management and metabolic portfolio, including our oral GLP-1, baxdrostat, oral PCSK9 in
combination small molecule products. This facility makes up part of the recently announced $50
billion investment plan in the United States, which also includes R&D spend, operating expenses,
and investments across several of our existing sites.
These investments are in line with our previously stated objectives to increase both our
manufacturing and R&D footprints in the U.S. Deal payments of $2.3 billion in the first half included
Enhertu milestone and an approximately $400 million upfront payment for the EsoBiotec
acquisition, which closed in the second quarter. Net debt increased by $650 million in the first
half, driven by the dividend payment made in the first quarter. We remain comfortable with our
current level of debt and decrease in the net debt EBITDA ratio to 1.4x reflects our improving
operating cash flow.
With that, please advance to the next slide and I will hand over to Dave, who will take you through
our Oncology and Hematology business performance.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `Thank you, Aradhana. Next slide, please. Oncology total revenues grew 16% in the first half to $12
billion, underpinned by strong double-digit growth across the U.S., Europe, and emerging
markets. Growth in the U.S. was particularly notable, up 19%, with demand growth substantially
offsetting the impact of the Medicare Part D redesign rebates, which started at the beginning of
2025.
Turning now to quarterly performance for our key medicines, we saw double-digit growth across
all key brands this quarter. Tagrisso delivered 12% growth in the second quarter, reflecting strong
demand across all indications. The market share for the FLAURA2 regimen continues to expand,
and the recently announced positive overall survival results reinforce Tagrisso's position as the
front-line standard of care in EGFR-mutated lung cancer. Overall, we anticipate continued
sequential growth across all indications through the remainder of the year.
Calquence remains the leading BTK inhibitor across major markets, with total revenues increasing
by 10% to $872 million in the second quarter. In the U.S., we saw growth in new patient starts,
having secured preferential formulary placement in CLL across several commercial plans, driving
front-line share gains.
We also saw strong uptake in the first-line mantle cell lymphoma following the approval of ECHO
in January. Looking ahead, we see meaningful growth potential for the fixed-duration AMPLIFY
regimen in CLL following its recent approval in Europe and filing acceptance in the U.S. Lynparza
remains the leading PARP inhibitor globally, with 11% growth in the second quarter. In the U.S., we
saw new share gains in both prostate and breast cancer alongside robust growth in Medicare. We
anticipate further volume growth globally to partially offset potential impact of VBP inclusion in
China anticipated later this year.
Truqap delivered $170 million in second quarter revenues, reflecting 84% growth compared to Q2
last year. We continue to see growing demand in the core second-line patient segment. And as
we reported last quarter, we've achieved nearly 100% market share in the AKT P10 biomarker
altered population. Further growth will be driven by increased uptake within the PIK3CA
population and additional global launches. We saw particularly strong growth of Imfinzi and Imjudo
in the second quarter, up 26% and 18% respectively.
In The U.S., there's been rapid early uptake of new Imfinzi regimens, ADRIATIC and AEGEAN in
lung cancer, in NIAGARA, in bladder cancer, as well as continued momentum in the established
lung and liver indications. The strong launch of ADRIATIC in small cell lung cancer in Europe more
than offset the increased competitive pressures in biliary tract cancer in Japan. We remain
focused on driving further adoption of Imfinzi and Imjudo with additional launches for NIAGARA,
ADRIATIC, and AEGEAN expected in the coming months, and with MATTERHORN in gastric
cancer set to contribute significantly to growth in 2026.
Enhertu total revenues grew 42% in the second quarter, reflecting sustained market leadership in
both HER2 positive and HER2 low metastatic breast cancer. We're seeing strong initial uptake in
China with Enhertu on the back of very rapid and broad hospital formulary listings following NRDL
enlistment in January. We see accelerating uptake for DESTINY-Breast06 with momentum
building in the U.S. and early use in the chemotherapy naive segment emerging in European
markets following approval in April.
Datroway is gaining traction in hormone receptor positive, HER2 negative breast cancer, with
early positive signals and share gains across key markets. We expect growth to accelerate
through the remainder of the year, following the recent U.S. approval and NCCN guideline
inclusion for patients with previously treated advanced EGFR-mutated lung cancer. With strongmomentum across our portfolio, we are well-positioned for continued growth through the rest of
the year as we deliver innovative oncology medicines to more patients across the globe.
With that, please advance to the next slide and I'll hand over to Susan to cover R&D highlights
from the quarter.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you Dave. This year at ASCO, AstraZeneca delivered multiple datasets with the potential
to transform clinical practice, including two plenary presentations. This marks the seventh
consecutive year our science has been selected for the ASCO plenary session, highlighting both
the caliber and consistent impact of our research and underscoring the value our data brings to
patients, to clinicians, and the wider oncology community. The SERENA-6 data represent the first
Phase III results for camizestrant on next generation oral third and complete ER antagonist, which
is an exciting new molecular entity with best-in-class potential.
A key first-line of treatment objective for patients with hormone receptor-positive advanced
breast cancer is to prolong the time until disease progression whilst maximizing quality of life. In
this interim analysis, camizestrant plus a CDK4/6 inhibitor reduced the risk of progression or
death by 56% compared to an aromatase inhibitor plus CDK4/6 inhibition and showed an
encouraging trend for improvement in second progression-free survival. Camizestrant also
demonstrated a very well tolerated safety profile with a discontinuation rate due to adverse
events of less than 1.5% and it meaningfully prolonged the time patients maintained their quality
of life by a median of over 16 months.
The significance of these findings is reinforced by the recent breakthrough therapy designation
granted by the FDA. The DESTINY-Breast09 trial moves Enhertu one line earlier in the treatment
of metastatic HER2 positive breast cancer into the first-line setting. The trial demonstrated that
combination of Enhertu plus pertuzumab resulted in a median progression-free survival of more
than three years with a 44% reduction in the risk of progression or death compared to the
standard of care three drug regimen THP.
There was also a strong trend second progression-free survival benefit and an early trend
towards overall survival benefit. Treating HER2 positive breast cancer at the earliest opportunity
with the most effective therapy is critical as approximately a third of patients diagnosed with
metastatic disease don't go on to receive a second-line of therapy. These data establish Enhertu
as a potential first-line option for HER2 positive breast cancer and their value has been
recognized by the FDA who recently also granted this data set breakthrough therapy designation.
MATTERHORN demonstrated a significant improvement in event-free survival for perioperative
Imfinzi plus FLOT chemotherapy compared with FLOT alone with two-thirds of patients with
resectable gastric or gastroesophageal cancer remaining event-free at two years and with a
strong trend towards improved overall survival. This represents the third perioperative regimen
for Imfinzi after AEGEAN and NIAGARA and introduces a new treatment approach in a disease
where options have traditionally been limited.
We're delighted that MATTERHORN has been granted priority review by the FDA. This quarter we
also reported three key high-level data readouts DESTINY-Breast11, POTOMAC and FLAURA2
Overall Survival. DESTINY-Breast11 moves Enhertu into the neoadjuvant early breast cancer setting
where the chance for cure is at its highest.
The trial focuses specifically on patients with high-risk disease where there's a large unmet need
with nearly half of patients not currently achieving a pathologic complete response to treatmentand many struggling to tolerate current standard of care combination chemotherapy regimens.
Enhertu followed by THP demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful
improvement in pathologic complete response rate compared to standard of care, with a trend
to improve event-free survival and an improved safety profile versus dose-dense doxorubicin and
cyclophosphamide followed by THP. The full data will be presented at ESMO later this year.
Data from our other early breast cancer Enhertu trial, DESTINY-Breast05, which looks at adjuvant
in HER2 in high-risk patients post-surgery are also expected later this year. In addition, we've
recently initiated our first trial of subcutaneous in HER2, which has the potential to further improve
the patient experience across a broad range of indications.
POTOMAC moves Imfinzi into the earliest treatment space of non-muscle invasive cancer, with
Imfinzi plus BCG induction and maintenance regimen, demonstrating improvement in the time
until disease recurrence or progression compared with BCG alone. These data will be presented
later this year.
Alongside the trials we have in muscle invasive disease, the recently approved NIAGARA trial and
the ongoing VOLGA trial, POTOMAC potentially broadens and reinforces Imfinzi's position in
bladder cancer. Both DESTINY-Breast11 and POTOMAC underscore our commitment to bring
transformative treatments into the earlier lines of care to maximize the chance of cure.
Finally, I also want to briefly highlight, as Dave mentioned, the recent announcement FLAURA2
demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in overall survival
versus Tagrisso monotherapy. These data reinforce the impact of Tagrisso and its role as the
backbone therapy across all stages of EGFR-mutated lung cancer. And we also look forward to
sharing these data later this year.
And with that, please advance to the next slide and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
Biopharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. Next slide, please. Our Biopharmaceuticals medicines continued to
deliver strong performance in the first half with double-digit growth of 10%, taking total revenue
to $11.2 billion. R&I continued its impressive momentum with total revenue of $4.2 billion, up 13%,
with growth medicines now making up 60% of the therapy area's revenue. CVRM achieved total
revenue of $6.6 billion, growth of 8%.
We are consistently seeing robust performances from our key medicines in R&I each quarter.
Fasenra grew 18% to $502 million in the second quarter. We have now launched Fasenra in China.
And in the United States, we saw strong uptake in the new EGPA indication where Fasenra has
already achieved leading share of new-to-brand prescriptions.
We also had the positive readout for the NATRON trial in hypereosinophilic syndrome in June.
And we are awaiting the results of the RESOLUTE trial of Fasenra in COPD due in the second half
of this year. Tezspire grew by 65% in the second quarter and has achieved leading new-to-brand
biologic share in asthma across key markets.
The regulatory review of the waypoint data in nasal polyps is well underway and we are looking
forward to launching this new indication in the second half. Tezspire is also being investigated in
COPD with its Phase III program ongoing.
Breztri was up 20% in the second quarter, benefiting from growing adoption of in-health triplereadout from the KALOS and LOGOS trials in May. Demand for Airsupra remains impressive with
the clinical proposition in moderate asthma strengthened by the BATURA trial, results of which
were published in the New England Journal of Medicine in May.
Saphnelo grew by 48% this quarter and has steadily gained share among systemic lupus
erythematosus patients treated with intravenous infusion. And we're looking forward to the
results of TULIP-SC, our subcutaneous trial, later this year. CVRM grew by 3% in the second
quarter with continued demand for Farxiga and Lokelma offsetting the expected impact of Brilinta
generic competition in the United States and European markets. Farxiga's strong trajectory
continued with revenues up 10% to $2.2 billion in the quarter.
In the second half, we expect demand to continue to increase. However, revenues in China are
expected to be impacted by the VVP implementation. Lokelma delivered another impressive
quarter with revenues of $175 million and growth of 27%. Lokelma is the leading potassium binder
in chronic kidney disease and heart failure. We firmly believe that Lokelma has blockbuster
potential, giving opportunities for further regional expansion. Wainua delivered $44 million in the
quarter, including the first sales in ex-US markets.
We are excited for the CARDIO-TTRansform trial of Wainua. This is the Phase III trial in ATTR
cardiomyopathy, which is due to readout in the second half of 2026. This is the largest trial in this
population and has the potential to address key questions regarding the optimal use of silencers
and stabilizers to treat this debilitating and deadly disease. And finally, we were particularly
excited to see the first positive Phase III readout for baxdrostat earlier this month.
And with that, I will hand over to Sharon.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals R&D `
Thanks, Ruud. Next slide, please. I'm pleased to share the positive high-level results from the
BaxHTN Phase III trial of baxdrostat in uncontrolled or resistant hypertension, which were
announced earlier this month. Hypertension is the leading modifiable risk factor for heart attack,
stroke, heart failure, and kidney disease, and it remains a huge unmet medical need.
Currently, nearly 50% of adults in the U.S. live with hypertension, and half of those patients still
have inadequately controlled blood pressure, despite taking multiple medications. With no new
treatments for over two decades, baxdrostat has the potential to be a first-in-class, highly-
selective aldosterone synthase inhibitor that targets the hormone driving elevated blood
pressure, leading to increased cardiovascular and renal risk. It's designed to reduce aldosterone
production at its source, delivering a highly-targeted approach that may help avoid the hormonal
side effects often associated with current therapies.
In BaxHTN, 796 patients with uncontrolled or treatment-resistant hypertension were randomized
one-to-one-to-one to receive 1 mg or 2 mg of baxdrostat, or placebo, on top of standard of care,
without the need for dose titration. The primary endpoint was change in seated systolic blood
pressure, or SBP, measured at 12 weeks, using automated office blood pressure readings.
Secondary endpoints included assessment of seated SBP after randomized withdrawal of
treatment from weeks 24 to 36, seated SBP in the subpopulation of patients with resistant
hypertension, and the proportion of patients achieving SBP below 130 millimeters of mercury at
week 12, alongside safety and tolerability measures.
We are delighted that both doses of baxdrostat demonstrated statistically significant and clinically
meaningful reductions in SBP at 12 weeks, and the trial also met all secondary endpoints.
Baxdrostat was generally well-tolerated in the trial with a favorable safety profile. The robust trialdesign of BaxHTN gives us great confidence in the data, and these results add to the compelling
body of evidence supporting baxdrostat's clinical promise in addressing a critical unmet need in
this hard-to-treat population.
We look forward to presenting these data at the upcoming European Society of Cardiology
meeting in the late-breaking hotline session next month, and are working at pace to share these
data with the regulatory authorities. Our ongoing Phase III development program for baxdrostat is
broad, with six additional clinical trials enrolling more than 20,000 patients. We believe the long
half-life of baxdrostat is a key differentiator for this potential medicine, supporting 24 hour
systolic blood pressure control, and we are looking forward to confirming this in the Bax24 trial
due to readout later this year. We are looking to extend the potential reach of baxdrostat across
the globe, and BaxAsia will provide us with data for the Asian population in the first half of next
year.
We are also in the process of initiating a new trial, BaxPA, in primary aldosteronism. This is a
condition where excess aldosterone is driving hypertension, electrolyte imbalances, and longer-
term cardiovascular risk. Beyond this, we are rapidly advancing the combination of baxdrostat and
dapagliflozin with three Phase III trials ongoing, two of which are outcome studies. BaxDUO-Arctic
investigates whether the combination can slow the progression of chronic kidney disease.
BaxDUO-Pacific, initiated in 2024, looks at whether the combination reduces the risk of kidney
decline or failure and cardiovascular death.
Prevent-HF, started this year, is the first of its kind trial and investigates whether the combination
results in reduction of heart failure events and cardiovascular death. We are very excited with the
strong momentum across our CVRM pipeline, underpinned by multiple novel approaches and our
ability to explore unique, multi-mechanism combinations to address interrelated CVRM diseases.
And with that, please proceed to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Marc to cover rare disease.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Thank you, Sharon. Can I get the next slide, please? Rare disease medicine returned to growth in
the second quarter, with total revenue up 7%, resulting in 3% growth in the first half to $4.3 billion.
In the second quarter, Ultomiris grew 23%, driven by patient demand across indications, including
the competitive generalized myasthenia gravis and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
markets. Soliris revenues continued to decline due to the successful conversion to Ultomiris, as
well as biosimilar pressure in Europe. This decline was partially offset by all the timing in tender
markets. Beyond complement, both Strensiq and Koselugo grew 15% and 18% respectively,
driven by continued patient demand.
Please advance to the next slide. We recently reported phase three readouts for two new
molecular entities, gefurulimab and anselamimab. We are excited by our Phase III PREVAIL trial
investigating gefurulimab, or dual-binding nanobody targeting C5, in patients with generalized
myasthenia gravis, meeting all endpoints. Gefurulimab demonstrated a statistically significant and
clinically meaningful improvement from baseline in myasthenia gravis activities of daily living total
score at week 26, compared to placebo.
The PREVAIL trial was conducted in a broader gMG patient population, compared with prior trials
of C5 targeted therapies. And we are highly encouraged by gefurulimab rapid, complete, and
sustained complement inhibition with improvements in both patient and practitioner reported
outcomes.Gefurulimab is self-administered subcutaneously once a week with a potential for two delivery
options, a pre-filled syringe, and a first-class auto-injector. We believe that with the strength of
this data and convenient administration, gefurulimab has the potential to become a new first-line
therapy following corticosteroids and immunosuppressant treatments. The gMG market has
expanded significantly over the past three years, with new branded entrants increasing disease
awareness and diagnosis rates.
Currently, less than 20% of patients are on branded treatments, and we expect this to increase
to approximately 50% in the next three years. Additionally, self-administered medicine
represents only a small part of this market today, and we expect this segment to grow
substantially.
Moving now to anselamimab, we recently provided an update on our Phase III CARES program in
patients with severe light-chain amyloidosis. While the result did not achieve statistical significance
for the primary endpoint in the overall patient population, anselamimab showed a highly clinically
meaningful improvement in all-cause mortality and cardiovascular hospitalization in a pre-
specified patient sum group on top of background standard of care. We are continuing to
evaluate the full result from CARES to further characterize the efficacy and safety of
anselamimab, and we intend to share this data with global health authorities.
It is important to note that this is a first Phase III trial to demonstrate that targeting amyloid fibrils
for depletion with specific antibodies can be highly effective in reducing debt and hospitalization
in an amyloid-driven disease. This bolsters our confidence to develop novel therapy that depletes
amyloid. We're also investigating another fibril depletor, coramitug, previously known as
ALXN2220 in transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy. The DepleTTR Phase III trial has now
completed recruitment with more than 1,000 patients enrolled, more than one year ahead of
plan. This is an exciting year for rare disease pipeline with additional key trials expected to
readout in the second half.
The registrational trial of Ultomiris in HCT-TMA represents an important commercial opportunity
and would be the first indication for Ultomiris beyond the Soliris level. Efzimfotase alfa on next
generation enzyme replacement therapy, which is studied in broad hypophosphatasia patient
population, has the potential to reach between $3 billion and $5 billion in peak sales revenue.
Importantly, much of this value would be unlocked with the studies expected to readout this year.
And finally, you may recall AstraZeneca and several partners spearheaded efforts to secure an
update to the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which broadens the scope of orphan drug exclusion from
Medicare direct price negotiation. The Orphan Cures Act is a significant positive for rare disease
patients. Companies will no longer be deterred from innovating in orphan indication or
investigating medicine across multiple rare diseases. We're now working with CMS to understand
the implementation process, but we believe our current and future rare disease portfolio would
be protected by this legislation.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand back to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Next slide, please. In conclusion, our company has continued to deliver strong
growth in the first half of the year, driven by sustained commercial and pipeline momentum with
multiple positive data readouts and important advances across our late-stage pipeline. Year-to-
date, we've seen above industry success rates in our late-stage portfolio. Looking ahead, we
have several exciting readouts over the next six months across oncology, rare disease, andNext slide, please. We're making significant progress towards our 2030 ambition and are
confident in our growth trajectory beyond 2030 as we invest behind transformative technologies
that have the potential to change medical practice. We want to be a growth company to 2030
and beyond. And for that, we need to invest in technologies that will actually transform the future
of medicine but also drive the company forward over the next decade and beyond. And that
explains why we continue to invest heavily in research and development.
Additionally, as Aradhana mentioned, we are continuing to drive operating leverage across the
company while not compromising on our investment in R&D and high-priority medicine. We've
already launched nine new medicines towards our target of 20 by 2030. And with pivotal data for
five entities announced this year, we're very much on track to meet or even exceed this objective.
Please advance to the next slide and we'll now move to the Q&A.
As Andy mentioned at the start of the call, please limit the number of questions you ask to allow
others a fair chance to participate. For those online, please use the raise hand function on Zoom.
With that, let's now move to the first question, which is from `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan at J.P. Morgan. Over
to you, James.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Q - `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan `
Hello, `James Gordon, J.P. Morgan, J.P. Morgan. Thanks for taking the two questions. The first question was on
Datroway and AVANZAR on the 2030 revenue target. So just putting Datroway and AVANZAR in
context. So how much do you now need AVANZAR to work to deliver your $80 billion in 2030
revenue target? What was baked in and what's required? And we've seen quite a lot of Phase III
readouts since the $80 billion target was set last year. So most favored nations aside, are you
more or less confident? How has confidence changed in things outside oncology, such as say
baxdrostat or IL-33, anselamimab was just talked about? So that's the first question. How de-
risked are things beyond Datroway?
And then the second question was on VEGF bispecifics. So VEGF is a mechanism that's got quite
a lot of interest recently for lung cancer. I've seen you've started a trial of Rural Visa [ph] PD-1
TIGIT with a CTLA-4 with or without bevacizumab, so a single agent VEGF. So how exciting is
VEGF? You're doing VEGF. So are VEGF agents exciting for combos for lung cancer? And is it
better to do a mono or what about a bispecific? I don't think you have a bispecific. So do you think
it's better to be bispecific and get the two together or to do them by themselves?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James. So maybe I'll cover quickly the first question. Susan, you might want to take the
VEGF question. So on your first question, James, the answer is straight. No, we don't need
AVANZAR to deliver our 80 billion target. Of course, we hope and we believe AVANZAR will be a
successful trial and will drive Datroway. But as we've said many times before, $80 billion is a risk
adjusted number across the totality of the portfolio. And as we progress with the risk projects,
baxdrostat was at least from an R&D perspective recently de-risked.
We now have, of course, to launched it and commercially succeed, but the risk from an R&D
viewpoint, gefurulimab, an important product, just de-risked. We have many other studies thatwe've just mentioned in the last few minutes that are not the risk and basically no longer have to
be risk adjusted in this forecast of $80 billion to 2030. So we don't need AVANZAR.
The last point I would make is Datroway is not only about AVANZAR. We already have approval in
breast cancer indication. We have approval in EGFR patients post-EGFR inhibitors and
chemotherapy. So Datroway is more than AVANZAR. Having said that, of course, I hope that
AVANZAR is a positive trial. So, Susan, over to you for VEGF.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. Sure. Thanks, Pascal. So, in terms of the bispecifics, obviously, as you're aware, we've got our
PD-1 and TIGIT rilvegostomig, and PD-1 with CTLA-4, volrustomig as the core components of our
bispecific portfolio. And what we're doing is combining those extensively with the rest of our
portfolio. The profile that we've seen with rilvegostomig, I think, is differentiated from other
agents out there because you've got the ability to inhibit both molecules with one molecule, both
targets to one particular cell with one molecule. And I think that's important.
What we also see because of its silent or reduced design is really excellent safety, particularly in
combination with very low discontinuation rates. So, we're looking at that, both in combination
with chemotherapy, but in combination with our extensive ADC portfolio as well. There are clearly
some indications where VEGF mechanism of action has been shown over many years to have
some added benefit. And we're looking at that in combination with rilvegostomig, for example, in
the HCC and the gastric GEMINI trials. I think there is some potential for that activity also in lung
cancer, and we're also going to be investigating that in lung cancer trials as well, looking at
combinations with ramucirumab.
So, I think there's some potential, but the key thing is that the real value of rilvegostomig is its
combinability across many different indications and with our ADC portfolio, and that's what we're
focusing on doing there. And one final point on AVANZAR. That's an event-driven trial. I'll just
point out that we completed a call for that at the end of 2024, actually, while ahead of schedule.
It's often the case that you have to wait for the events to come. That's sometimes a positive
thing. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Thank you, Susan. The next question is from `Sarita Kapila, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Over to you,
Sarita.
Q - `Sarita Kapila, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. One on Imfinzi, please, and a second on Enhertu. So, on
Imfinzi, could you talk about how large the revenue opportunities are for Imfinzi across bladder
cancer as well as gastric cancer? And how are you viewing the emerging competition from
pituitary (Inaudible) and breast cancer? I believe there's competing data in the NIAGARA and
VOLGA settings expected in 2027.
And then, secondly, on Enhertu. Could you help us understand how you expect Enhertu to be
integrated into the first-line HER2 positive setting in breast cancer? Are you expecting majority of
patients to use Enhertu in line with the DB09 protocol? Or could you see Enhertu move more to a
maintenance treatment -- I'm sorry, an induction treatment versus maintenance as your
competitor has been highlighting. And if you could just touch on the confidence of the Enhertu
monotherapy arm and when we could expect data, please. Thank you.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sarita. So, Dave, two good questions for you.
You have to unmute, Dave. I mean, I keep forgetting myself that we need to unmute and mute.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Sorry about that, Pascal. Thank you for that, Sarita. Thank you for the questions on this. Just an
opportunity to reiterate here that the growth that we saw in the quarter on Imfinzi, which was
quite strong, really did come from the new indications that we were launching. You call out within
one of those bladder cancer in NIAGARA, and we were really pleased to see the uptake that we
saw there. In terms of the size of the bladder cancer opportunity, if you look across the various
studies that we have, NIAGARA, POTOMAC, and then we look forward to the VOLGA readout,
bladder cancer is a blockbuster opportunity.
And certainly the potential for competition is one that we're aware of. EV and PADCEV has an
important role, but that's the reason that the VOLGA study is also such an important part of all of
the portfolio of bladder cancer studies that we have. So far, the uptake that we've seen with
NIAGARA has been strong and we'll look forward to hopefully building on that with a readout
from VOLGA and have an opportunity for that to go forward.
And I think that depending upon the readouts, we'll see exactly how EV does. There's multiple
different scenarios that could play out. One of them is that NIAGARA continues to remain the
primary standard of care going forward. Another is that the incorporation of EV is important, and
that's why we've got a study within this setting. Within gastric cancer and specifically, we talked
about the MATTERHORN study.
Again, I think MATTERHORN is in and of itself a blockbuster opportunity. Obviously, this is
something that we need to move forward with approval, but I think that we heard a very positive
reception at ASCO from the discussant characterizing DFLOT as a new standard of care moving
forward. And I think that again, when you take a look at the incidence of gastric cancer across the
globe, this is an opportunity certainly for a very, very important opportunity forward. And U.S.
priority review for MATTERHORN together with the guidelines updates, I think speaks really well
to the opportunity there.
On Enhertu, our expectation is that with the transformative 40 months in progression-free
survival, clear superiority on a PFS basis over THP, and really that was done in a treat to
progression context that we will see the utilization of DB09 in line with the clinical study. I think on
top of that also, that the CR rates of 15% versus 8% is something that has really struck the
investigator community as something really, really important. And you don't know which of those
patients might get those complete responses. And what we do know is that treat to progression
is the design of the study that resulted in the clinical benefit that we saw within DB09 in the Phase
III.
So there is certainly some interest in hypothesis and understanding certain sub-segments and
how duration of therapy might be modulated within those. But I don't expect that at launch that
that's what we're going to see. And I would also just point to that we've seen treat to
progression as the primary behavior that we see with DB03, DB04, and DB06 in the
marketplace. And while DB09 is a slightly different context, I again expect that that to be the
predominant behavior that we'll see forward so that patients get the best chance to achieve the
results that we're seeing within the studies.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Maybe let me ask a couple of quick comments as it relates to Enhertu induction versus
maintenance. I mean, of course, everybody can always speculate all sorts of things, but in the
end, medical practice has to be run by data. So you can speculate it's a useful hypothesis, but
then you have to test it with a clinical trial until you have data. It's a little bit dangerous, I think, to
speculate. Patients' lives depend on those treatments, and doctors should really stick to the data.
The other comment I would want to make is maybe taking advantage of the Imfinzi question is I
personally think that because there are so many indications that are developed for Imfinzi, new
indications, some of them are smaller, some others are bigger. Overall, it looks like the potential
of Imfinzi has been a little bit underestimated maybe because possibly it's difficult to forecast all
those indications. But if you look at the first half, I mean, Imfinzi grew 21%. And for the second
quarter alone, we had a growth of 26%.
And if you look at our top products, of course, Ruud is still leading the race with Farxiga. Tagrisso
is number two, but Imfinzi is our number three product. So it's a very large product, very
important product for us and, of course, for patients. So I think it's important to really sort of
consider all those smaller indications that collectively will actually fuel the growth of this important
product.
The third question is from `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank at Danske Bank. Over to you, Gonzalo.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Danske Bank `
Hello, and thank you for taking my questions. The first one I want to ask is on tozorakimab on the
COPD program with readouts coming in H1 2026. We recently saw astegolimab and itepekimab
from Roche and Sanofi reporting somewhat mixed data in COPD, putting some questions around
the IL-33 pathway in COPD. So I was wondering if you could give us some words on your view on
tozorakimab, given the recent events in the space.
And my second question, it's on anselamimab. As you, Dunoyer Marc mentioned, you recently
reported that the program did not meet primary endpoint, but there is a subgroup where you
see positive outcomes. I was wondering if you could expand a bit on that, on who are these
patients and how big this population is, and give us some flavor on what is, in your eyes, the
likelihood of FDA approval for this subset of patients with the data you have now. Thank you very
much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Gonzalo. So, Susan, do you want to take the first one, and Marc will take the second one?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Sure. So about your question regarding tozorakimab and COPD, I will say broadly that not all
molecules are the same, and we believe that we have a differentiated profile in tozorakimab as
our IL-33 monoclonal antibody. One of the features that differentiates tozorakimab is that it can
inhibit signaling through both the ST2 pathway, as well as the RAGE-EGFR pathway, and we think
that's incredibly important in COPD because RAGE-EGFR helps drive epithelial remodeling and
mucus production.
We know that's important in COPD because mucus is driving exacerbations, and exacerbations
are driving mucus production. Remember that we had a Phase II study, FRONTIER-4, which is asmall proof-of-concept study in patients with COPD recruited irrespective of blood eosinophil
counts, and we saw clinical benefit in lung function and reduced risk of COPD worsening in both
current and former smokers. So we look forward to the readout of the LUNA program next year,
and that includes the OBERON, TITANIA, and MIRANDA trials for tozorakimab.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
So regarding anselamimab, so let me remind you that we conducted two clinical studies, Phase III
clinical studies in Mayo Stage III, one in IIIa and one in IIIb. The both studies were an add-on to
plasma cell dyscrasia, CBORD, but also daratumumab was possible. And the third remark I would
like to make, obviously this condition is very severe with fatality and severe morbidity. Now, to
answer your question more directly about this pre-specified subgroup, I'm not going to comment
further today, but I can only say that this is a sizable minority, and the clinical benefit that we have
seen is very meaningful.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. Next question is `Sachin Jain, Bank of America at Bank of America. Over to you, Sachin.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America `
Hi there, thanks for taking my questions and (Inaudible). Okay. So firstly on data of AVANZAR T07,
any color on timing of AVANZAR relative to TL07? The question is how do you view the
probability of those two studies? I think investors have been more cautious on 07 given PDL1 cut
offs and lack of QCS.
And then the second question was just going back to the prior one on TOZO. So Sharon, thanks
for answers on RAGE and the Phase II data. But I wondered if you've looked at the event rates
you're seeing within that study and any ability to change here, given that's been the issue that
both the competitors have had.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Sharon, do you want to start with the second one and then maybe Susan you'll take
the AVANZAR one?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure, so I'll continue with the topic of tozorakimab. We won't comment on event rates in our
ongoing studies. I am aware that some of the other companies noted that they saw a slowing of
events during COVID-19. We can't comment on the ongoing study, but as I mentioned earlier, we
remained very positive about the potential for tozorakimab to become a new medicine for
patients with COPD. We're doing that based on the encouraging outcomes from our FRONTIER-4
studies and we continue to move forward recruiting at pace for our program. And so I look
forward to that readout next year.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
And so thanks for the question on data of AVANZAR. Obviously, the TL07 study, given it's also a
first line study -- you might expect that the event rates for AVANZAR are going to be reflected inevent rates generally across the first line studies for the combinations of Datroway plus IO. So
we'll have to wait and see. I mean, I would just comment that AVANZAR completed accrual at an
earlier time point. So that's one piece just worth bearing in mind. And I think as well, the learnings
that we've had across the program from a biomarker perspective, we're looking to see how we
can think about how those might be used across the program for Datroway as well.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. Next question is from Seamus at Guggenheim. Over to you, Seamus.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim `
Oh, thanks very much. Had a little unmute problem. So two questions very quickly. So Dave, I think
historically, when we talked about the opportunity for Enhertu, the numbers that we could
comfortably get to in our own models were north of $10 billion, especially considering the success
that we've seen with Enhertu so far. Can you just help us understand the a little bit the path to --
numbers north of or at $10 billion for this opportunity. I think it's also starting to show through a
little bit that AstraZeneca's own market performance in some of the direct reported markets is
actually outperforming perhaps what we may have assumed in partner markets. So just trying to
get a better understanding of the future of Enhertu as we look at the overall growth trajectory.
And then just the second question. As we think about the opportunity in cardiovascular disease --
Pascal, we've really seen opportunities emerge from AstraZeneca over time in several categories
where you were either third to market or came on very strong from a fourth or third to market
position and ultimately became the third or second largest product in category, Imfinzi being a
great example. What do you see as the opportunity in obesity for AstraZeneca's existing product
portfolio in that context, particularly as some of the large, very established second players seem
to be stumbling? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. Dave, do you want to take the first one?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yes, be my pleasure. So Seamus, let me start just first with one of the really important dynamics
that we've seen on Enhertu globally across regions within 2025. At the end of last year, we were
commenting that DB06 coming online and NCCN inclusion and guidelines was going to be an
important catalyst along with DB09, DB11, DB05 towards really reinvigorating growth beyond
what we had seen so far with O3. And I'm really pleased that we've seen strong sequential
growth, not only in Q1, but also continuing into Q2. And I think that that's -- double-digit sequential
growth that we're seeing on Enhertu is coming as a result of really driving across the various
growth opportunities that we've got within the marketplace.
So within the U.S. specifically, we see DB06 driving launch growth along with contributions coming
from the tumor agnostic label as well as DB03. Within Europe, we're seeing DB03 growth along
with continued opportunities as we're making inroads into the HER2 low. And then again, the EM
progress that we're making and really driven by China in no small part I think has been really,
really very, very encouraging to see. So if we take a look at the opportunity for Enhertu in terms of
where could we get to if we imagine it peak, I think that we can very much see that we'll see
contribution across regions.And then in addition to that, I think that DB09 represents a very, very important opportunity to
move into the frontline setting. As Susan mentioned in her comments, there are many patients
who don't get an opportunity to be able to see a treatment in the second-line. So there are more
patients available in the frontline. And that's why DB09 represents an important growth
opportunity above and beyond what we've been able to achieve with those three.
Of course, also the duration of therapy is something that we would expect to be longer. DB11 and
DB05 together represent near blockbuster opportunities as we move into the early setting. And
there's still clearly a lot more opportunity that we've got to move forward in the ultra low
segment. For the successes that we've had in DB06 Seamus, ultra low remains a place where we
still have opportunity for continued progress. And I expect that we'll be able to make that.
And then finally, we see combinations as part of the future, combinations with our novel IO
bispecifics being an opportunity for growth down the road. So Enhertu is really delivering nicely
against our vision to be able to be one of the largest medicines in our portfolio.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, David. So your second question, Seamus, it's a great question, actually, because it gives
me a chance to recognize the incredibly talented team we have in this company, not only
commercially, I mean, the commercial teams around the world are really absolutely exceptional.
You've just mentioned yourself that Enhertu is doing better than you expected. And David and his
team are doing incredibly good job everywhere. Ruud and his team are doing a great job. Same
in rare disease. So if we now look at your specific question, one aspect is, really the quality, the
talented teams we have in every geography. And quite frankly, it's taken us 10 years to build the
team we have today in every country because it is not that simple. So that's number one.
Number two is we have a tremendous footprint. And, our motto is, of course, we follow the
science, but it's also that we bring our medicines to as many patients as possible around the
world. And so that means the emerging markets. That means China. That means every single
country around the world. We want to bring our medicines to those people. And we should
remember that there are many, many more people living outside the U.S. and Europe than inside
those two important geographies. And if you look at Farxiga, it's a good marker of this.
And a great majority of our sales these days, they come from countries that are not the U.S., U.S.
is very, very important, of course, but still, as soon as you have a medicine that is affordable, easy
to take like an oral agent, then you can and you can reach out to the millions, hundreds of millions
of people around the world who need our medicine. So the talent, the footprint, the way we
develop those products, I think we always try to be innovative. And our agent is a different route,
of course, compared to an injectable, it would be easier, cheaper, but also our clinical
development programs.
We leverage the combinations. People -- people who suffer from obesity, and I hate this word,
obesity, actually, because at the end of the day, what it is about is abdominal, central, what you
call central obesity. I mean, in fact, you can be someone who doesn't necessarily look obese, but
you have central fat, you have abdominal fat, and abdominal fat is really what drives insulin
resistance, inflammation, and all the secondary considerations that you can think about. So then
these people typically, they suffer from other complications, hypertension, cholesterol,
dyslipidemia, kidney disease, et cetera.
So we really try to look at how do we address all the components of this metabolic syndrome by
combining our products. So our offering will be not only an oral agent, but it's also going to bewhat you might call the cosmetic obesity market, which is a consideration for some people, but
we believe the most important piece is really central fat and the insulin resistance and all the
consequences of this.
But I'd also like to ask Ruud, maybe to tell us a little bit about what we're going to do with this
cardiometabolic franchise.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yes, no, thank you so much, Pascal. And I think you have summarized it quite well. We truly believe
we have a differentiated strategy here. We have a long heritage, as you already mentioned, in
this disease area. There's a deep understanding from a science perspective. And I dare to say
we have excellent relationships across the world with top cardiologists, internal medicine
physicians. And I think the combination and the different mechanism of action is a true
differentiator. There are so many people who are overweight and have very serious risk factors,
like the ones you mentioned.
And the fact that we have in our portfolio, I think of a quite unique oral PCSK9. Sharon discussed
the potential of baxdrostat. We discussed our own GLP-2 Farxiga. It also means that if everything
works and the oral GLP-1 is, let's say, is in medicine, it's relatively easy to combine it. And it will
also be then easily accessible for so many people around the world. So I think it's a truly
differentiated strategy. We are committed to it. We are investing a lot of, let's say, resources,
money into it, because we truly believe that we can change the trajectory of so many people
around the world with cardiovascular and renal diseases.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas at BNP Paribas. Over to you, Peter.
Q - `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas `
Thanks, Pascal. I'm sure you're bored to ask this question, but latest thoughts on tariff dynamics
and where expectations or your expectations sit on what the current administration is cooking up
with respect to Part D and all these reforms.
Secondly, just for Sharon or Marc, on baxdrostat and the C5 data, I realize you can't go into any
sort of quantification, but there are public data sets from competitors out there. So can I push you
on how the data stacks up in your view? Is it the overall profile of efficacy, safety and
convenience, or can we dream that there is superior efficacy on either asset?
And then lastly, I hope you don't mind, just a third one, Sharon or Pascal, just because most
people on the call today have probably hopped over from Novo's profit one [ph] call earlier.
You've got a clear strategy for obesity. It's not going to play out until the next decade, but it's
likely that investors are going to increasingly question obesity market value expectations going
forward. So can I just confirm that when you think about future pricing, it's at a materially lower
level than the current GLP-1 price? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Peter. So I heard the word bored at the beginning. I'm not sure if I captured your
question. I think your question was about tariffs and also MFN.
Q - `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas `Correct.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So maybe tariffs, Aradhana, you want to take that one?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So I think your question was whether the tariffs that we expected are in line. Clearly, the
tariffs between the U.S. and Europe have been announced. I think it still is a question of timing and
what happens with the administration, when they get implemented, et cetera. We had mentioned
on our first quarter call that we have pretty good and segregated supply chains, and therefore
there's only a handful of products where we do import some products from Europe into the U.S.
We do already have capacity for those products in the U.S., and we've already started some of
the tech transfers, which obviously will take a little bit of time.
But we will not be significantly impacted by tariffs. We reconfirmed the guidance this year, and this
year, obviously, we're managing through inventory and so forth. But any impact, even if there is, is
going to be very short-lived, since we've already started the tech transfer process.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana. On the MFN, maybe I can take this one, and we've had, as you can imagine,
many interactions with the administration at different levels. The industry has had all the
companies, and we as a company have had several interactions, and certainly personality had
many interactions, and we've basically shared what we think could be done, because I do believe
a rebalancing, equalization, if you want to call it this way of pricing, a rebalancing of pricing around
the world is necessary. The U.S. can no longer pay for the R&D for the world. I mean, it's not
sustainable.
So we need to have a fairer sharing of the cost of R&D in our industry across rich countries, and
of course, poor countries, we need to be more flexible with price, but rich countries need to
share, and then you have to consider GDP levels, et cetera, for sure. So we've actually made a
number of proposals. Of course, as you know the pricing structure in the U.S., and the U.S. market
is a huge market. It's a complicated market. Pricing is very complicated, so there's a lot of
technicalities involved, but we did make our proposals, which we believe could achieve what the
President is trying to achieve, but we also need Europe to increase their share of GDP allocated
to innovative pharmaceuticals.
I mean, if you think about it, today the U.S. spends 0.8% of GDP in innovative pharmaceuticals,
0.8%. The U.K. and many countries in Europe, Germany is better, but many countries in Europe
spend 0.3% of GDP. That's not enough. They need to increase it, and actually increasing it would
be good not only for patients, because we talk about price, but it's not only a question of price,
it's a question of access.
In many countries in Europe, people or patients wait for years to get access to medicines that
could save their lives. So it's a question of access, not only price. The second reason it would be
good for Europe is we believe our sector is a great sector in terms of science, innovation,
creating jobs and economic value. So today, innovation, I mean, I started in the industry a long
time ago, and at the time, innovation was driven out of Europe when we were selling pills, really.
Today, innovation is driven out of the U.S. There's an explosion of technologies, as you know that
is driven by all these investments that has taken place. China is ramping up, as we've talkedabout before, very rapidly. And sadly, Europe is falling behind. So I think this rebalancing needs to
take place, not only for the industry, but also -- and not only for the U.S. pricing level, but also so
that Europe can actually contribute to this innovation and then benefit from it in terms of value
creation and economic development. But, the administration is considering all these things and
we'll see what comes out of all these proposals that different companies may have made.
On the C5 data, I'll ask Marc to comment, but I want to make a quick comment. We really want to
be respectful of Congress and data presented at the Congress. We don't want to disclose data
ahead of a Congress because we want to be respectful of the processes that are in place and
the right of Congress to keep the data until it's presented. But maybe Marc in a minute wants to
make a few points.
The last point I will make about the so-called obesity, I've never really liked, as I said, the word
obesity. For me, it's about weight management, because actually at the end of the day, for me,
it's not about how you look. I mean, you look the way you want to look, quite frankly. The question
is, how much abdominal fat do you have and how much inflammation do you create around your
liver, around your pancreas, around your heart, in your body? And how much that drives multiple
conditions, in particular, metabolic conditions.
So our approach has always been to target this central fat, this abdominal fat and the, I mean,
metabolic syndrome is not the right term because it's never been a recognized indication, but
let's say this insulin resistance. And that's really what we target. We believe it's a big market. We
believe it's a market that needs to be addressed with prices that are affordable and then payers
and patients around the world should benefit and then should be reimbursed because if you
address that, you're going to really help patients. But at the end of the day, these are chronic
treatments and essentially you have to be easy to take and you have to be affordable so people
can take these medicines for a long time.
Sorry to talk a little bit long, but Marc, over to you for the C5 data.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Yes. So as you advised, Pascal, I'm not going to be able to talk about detailed data. What I can say
on top of what I've expressed in my prepared remark is that the rapid onset in patient reported
outcome is going to be a strong point of this gefurulimab. And overall, for our C5 franchise, I think
it will be a very good -- we'll complete the injectable franchise, infusion franchise that we have
with Ultomiris and Soliris in myasthenia gravis. So we see it as a complementary product in
addition to the strong franchise that we have today.
Q - `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. `Matthew Weston, UBS, UBS. Over to you, Matthew.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you very much. Two questions, if I can. The first on the C5 franchise. Marc, I'd be very
interested to understand the dynamics in the market with the first launch of Soliris biosimilars. Are
we seeing any signs of payers in the US or ex-US introducing step edits or therapeutic
substitution, forcing patients back down to biosimilars Soliris away from Ultomiris?And then a question for Iskra on Farxiga VBP. Can you remind us how much of Farxiga is in China?
And also I realize you don't know yet what the potential financial impact is, but in the past Astra
has previously given guidance on other VBP products, suggesting that potentially sometimes
there are commercial measures that may offset the impact of VBP. And I just wondered whether
that was something that you expected to see here.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks very much. Marc, do you want to take the first one?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Yes, so to try to address your question, I think the continued progression of Ultomiris and the
increasing also conversion from Soliris to Ultomiris, I think brings part of the answer. So we do not
have, we do not face a sort of a back to biosimilars Soliris from payers. Once a conversion has
been established in any given indication or any given market, usually Ultomiris has a very
sustainable growth.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Marc. Iskra?
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice President, International `
Thanks for the question. So as you know Farxiga represent a very important growth driver for our
CVRM portfolio in China and both in diabetes as well as in CKD and heart failure indication. As we
already communicated and Ruud already mentioned, and we do expect VBP for Farxiga as part of
batch 11 with the impact in the second half of this year.
Your question is very, very right. There are definitely the different implications of the usage of the
drugs in a post VBP setup. And that VBP is usually driving much broader utilization and broader
access for many more patients and given the unmet need in China, I'm sure the Farxiga and GLP-
2 class will be widely used. Which means that in the short period, you can anticipate the reduction
primarily driven by price, but equally you can expect the tail and the potential increase volume
driven as we saw in many other brands in the post-VBP time in China. So basically we anticipate
very similar trend to the brands like Crestor, for example, in the pipe.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And actually, Matthew, you referred to commercial activities. In fact, it's what we call
consumerization in China. To be honest, it's actually very similar to what companies are now
considering in the U.S. and they call go direct or direct to consumer. It's essentially selling directly
to patients who, of course, receive a prescription. And if you look at Crestor, that's what we have
been able to achieve.
Patients get a script from their doctors and more and more they get an electronic script these
days through video consultation. And then they get their -- Crestor deliver to their home. And, a
lot of people prefer to pay $25 or $30, I think it costs, delivered to their home rather than go to
the hospital and queue to have it for free. So we think we can actually do a similar approach with
Farxiga in China.
Of course, sales will be lower, but as Iskra said, there will be quite a tail. And actually, quite
interestingly, you see in some parts of the U.S. similar behavior. Sometimes people can't put up
with all the hurdles of getting reimbursed and they decide just to pay out of pocket and be donewith it. So if the product is at a price that is affordable and you can get it delivered to your home,
of course you need a script, but it's a convenient option for patients.
`Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs at Goldman. Over to you, Rajan.
Q - `Rajan Sharma, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thanks for taking a question. So just on the rare disease side of things, so one of the key
catalysts this year is obviously efzimfotase alfa. Could you just help us understand what the target
profile is for the drug, particularly in the context of Strensiq in the same setting? What's the
residual and met need there? Thank you.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
So thank you for this question on the efzimfotase alfa. So first of all, efzimfotase alfa has been
developed in both the adult and pediatric indications. And our goal is to achieve a much wider
geographic coverage than we have with Strensiq. The coverage of Strensiq is strong in a few
countries, but the access and the reimbursement has been slower in other parts of the world.
Now, if you look at the two products, efzimfotase alfa will be one administration, one injection
every two weeks. And if you compare this to Strensiq, you have either six or 12 injection in the
same period of two weeks. So it will have a greater patient benefit. As I said earlier on, we will
have the results of our Phase III trials towards the end of the year. And we look forward to
bringing this new therapeutic solution to many countries around the world.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marc. `Michael Yee, Jefferies at Jefferies. Over to you, Michael.
Q - `Michael Yee, Jefferies `
Thank you for taking the question. Quick question on the Part D redesign, please. One of your
European competitors talked about how the volume uplift in the second quarter was below their
expectations and the overall impact from the Part D redesign, maybe not as hoped. Your
oncology franchise overall performed very, very strongly in the second quarter. So I'm wondering
if you could talk to, was that despite the Part D redesign maybe not having the volume effect or
did you not see that slower uptake and you're quite happy with what you saw? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave, I mean, it's really mostly an oncology question. Do you want to cover that?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yes, it'd be my pleasure. So Michael, I commented last quarter that the Part D redesign really was
a rebasing event as we saw the gross to net impact take place for paying for the offset for the
co-pay capping. And we've also talked about how we've seen an offset in addition to that with
fewer patients on free drug, lower abandonment rates. And so some of these elements really
coming into play to help to offset the additional liability that we face.
I also commented that after that rebasing, we would see sequential growth pick up and that we
would see growth from there, not only on the existing medicines, but also from new launches. I'm
really pleased that we saw that with Calquence and with Tagrisso. So with Calquence, we saw asequential growth of 15% in the United States. With Tagrisso, we saw a sequential growth of 12%.
And in both of those instances, demand was the overwhelming driver of the growth that we saw.
And so as we take a look at the opportunities in front of us, Tagrisso, we're going to continue to
drive FLAURA2, which we've been having very nice success with alongside with ADAURA [ph] and
LAURA. With Calquence, we look forward to the opportunity to continue to take advantage of the
leading share position that we have and moving forward with that and getting ready for the
AMPLIFY launch as we move to a finite option. So I would say that this is playing out consistent
with our expectations and how I believe that we've been talking about it for the last or so.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. We'll take one last question. `Luisa Hector, Berenberg of Berenberg. Over to you, Luisa.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Hi, thank you, Pascal. A big picture one, really. So, I mean, it's intriguing that the diversification of
Astra is very clear, and we've heard a lot of it through the call today. You've also seen an
unprecedented number of positive trial readouts. But there's still a bit of a leaning towards
oncology. I mean, great that we now see Imfinzi with so many uses in cancer, potentially on track
to be your highest selling drug.
So, I'm just wondering, two things, really. Has the mix of your 2030 revenue ambition shifted?
And how confident are you that you now have the right number of therapy areas at Astra, and
that your end-to-end pipeline filling is sufficient to sustain the company through to the next
decade? So, I guess it's really, where are the gaps that you see, given all of the infilling that you
have very successfully achieved? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Luisa. I'm not -- I suspect, actually, Ruud would take offence of that comment, because, I
mean, in the first half, if you look at it, oncology was almost $12 billion, $11.95, and biopharma was
$11.2, and still growing.
So, it is a very important part of our company. And I think it shouldn't be -- what shouldn't be
underestimated is the fact that in the emerging markets, in particular, the foundation of our
presence is actually biopharmaceuticals. And it's key, because that creates the platform to then
launch products in oncology, in rare disease. If you start from very little, it's hard, and you don't
have the talent.
In many geographies -- I was in the Middle East, South East, many geographies, we've been able
to build really, really talented people, teams, because we've got this presence, and we've
attracted those people. And then on this foundation of biopharmaceuticals, we actually can add
oncology, which is really a great opportunity for each car in the emerging markets, but also rare
disease, where Marc and the team have been driving growth.
So, that's one aspect. The second aspect is, if you actually look at the pipeline, there are several
medicines that are actually going to drive our future in what we call biopharmaceuticals. In
respiratory disease, we have several products. I mean, those are commercialized growing, and
then new ones. And in cardiovascular medicine, we have quite a number of products that can be
big. I mean, a normal PCSK9, if it works the way we hope it will work, has enormous potential
around the world. PCSK9 are great products, but they're injectable, they're kind of expensive,outside the U.S., their use is limited. If you bring in an affordable oral agent, you have a huge
potential, hypertension, huge potential.
A lot of people across the world have, again, this sort of central fat, even though they may not
look overweight, they have central fat and then insulin resistance, and they have hypertension,
huge potential. Same for, of course, the oral treatment. So I think over the next few years, if our
pipeline delivers the way we are hoping it does, and we started well with baxdrostat [ph], you'd
see a great growth in cardiovascular disease.
So as to the point about, do we have enough therapy areas? I think, yes. We can always go and
explore new things, but what are the biggest killers in the world? Cardiovascular disease, number
one. Respiratory disease, people forget always that mortality from asthma attacks or COPD
attacks is high, and the third is oncology.
So we are actually addressing the three biggest, when I say oncology, I mean oncology, and
hematology, we are actually addressing the three biggest killers in the world, and the science is
exploding, not only in oncology, but now in cardiovascular and respiratory disease and
immunology. So I think we have enough, and we are very focused on changing medicines in those
areas with new technologies and to go past 2030.
So with this, thank you so much for all your great questions and your interest, and I will wish you a
great day.