Q3 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Thank you very much for joining us today. I am Mikami, responsible for IR, and I will
be the emcee.
Today, we have `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Masahiro
Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group; and `Hiroyuki Ueda, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group, Chief Officer of External and
Public Affairs Group.
We will begin by `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group, followed by `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and then we will have a Q&A
session.
For today's briefing, we have simultaneous interpretation between Japanese and English. If you
wish to listen in English, please select English from the interpretation button, not the original
audio.
For English, please choose the English channel. For today's briefing, simultaneous interpretation
of Japanese and English will be provided. If you would like to listen, please select English from the
interpretation button on the bottom of the screen.
Now, I would like to hand over to Yamamoto-san for the third quarter results.
`Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(interpreted) This is Yamamoto. Thank you very much for joining today. Thank you very much for
your support. I would like to start with a summary of the financial results.
Our operating income for the nine months ended December 31, 2024 was JPY 3 trillion 679.4
billion. We were able to achieve a high level of profit due to the impact of production recovery
and improvement efforts, despite the volume decline and on-time costs incurred in the first half
of the period.
We would like to express our appreciation to our stakeholders, including suppliers and dealers,Based on progress in improving earning power, backed by improving efforts, including product
competitiveness and value chain earnings, we have revised our full-year operating income
forecast upward by JPY 400 billion to JPY 4 trillion 700 billion.
We will execute JPY 830 billion of investment in human resources and growth areas annually as
planned. We will enhance the overall attractiveness of the industry, and link to a view to fostering
sense of purpose and enthusiasm for work.
Now, let me explain our financial results for the nine-month period from April to December 2024.
Consolidated vehicle sales for this period was 7 million units, which was 96.0% of consolidated
vehicle sales for the same period of the previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales were
7,758 million units, which was 98.1% of such sales for the same period of the previous fiscal year.
The number of unit sales decreased in the first half of the fiscal year due to the response to the
certification issues and other factors, but production recovered in the third quarter. The
proportion of electrified vehicles continued to increase to 45.3%, mainly due to the strong
performance of HEV sales in North America, Europe and other regions.
Consolidated financial results were sales revenues of JPY 35 trillion 673.5 billion, operating
income of JPY 3 trillion 679.4 billion, Income before income taxes of JPY 5 trillion 4,300 billion,
net income of JPY 4 trillion 100.3 billion. Net income increased from the same period of the
previous fiscal year, mainly due to a one-time factor.
There was a change in accounting treatment in connection with the holdings of foreign currency
denominated assets, which resulted in a one-time gain in the current period, including those
accumulated in the past.
Now, let me explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. The effects of
foreign exchange rates increased operating income by JPY 490 billion. Net cost reduction efforts
resulted in an operating income increase of JPY 70 billion. This reflects the JPY 220 billion in gross
effects of cost reduction efforts, maintaining the JPY 300 billion annual level, even in a difficult
environment of declining volume and little model change. The effect of marketing activities
decreased operating income by JPY 165 billion due to volume and model mix changes caused by
production halts, despite the expansion of value chain earnings.
An increase in expenses decreased operating income by JPY 590 billion. Other factors
decreased operating income by JPY 365.7 billion due to factors such as one-time costs related to
Hino Motors. Now this includes JPY 310 billion for investment in human resources and JPY 180
billion for investment in growth areas.
This slide shows operating income by geographical regions. Japan and North America decreased
due mainly to a decrease in sales volume and expansion of the investment in human resources.
Europe and Asia increased mainly due to cost reduction efforts.
Operating income in our China business and equity method investment gains decreased, mainly
due to an increase in sales expenses. Operating income in the Financial Services business
increased largely due to an increase in loan balances.
Next, the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2025.
Consolidated vehicle sales is expected to remain unchanged from the previous forecast at 9,400
million units. Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales are also expected to remain unchanged at 10,100Next, the full-year consolidated financial forecast. We have adopted the full-year foreign
exchange rate assumptions of JPY 152 to the dollar, JPY 160 for the euro. Based on this, we
forecast for the full year consolidated sales revenues of JPY 47 trillion, operating income of JPY
4.7 trillion, income before taxes JPY 6.18 trillion, and net income of JPY 4.52 trillion.
At the beginning of the period, we assumed maintaining our earning power of JPY 5 trillion and
projected JPY 4 trillion 300 billion of consolidated operating income incorporating JPY 700 billion
of investments in human resources and growth areas. We added JPY 130 billion in investments
and human resources in the second quarter, bringing the total to JPY 830 billion, which we plan to
implement as planned.
Response to certification-related irregularity issues were completed in Q3 and is appropriately
reflected in our report. We revised operating income forecast upward by JPY 400 billion to JPY 4
trillion 700 billion. It is mainly due to accumulated improvement efforts we have made, and
certainly we owe everyone for their efforts.
Now, I would like to hand over to `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO, for more details. Thank you for your
attention.
`Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) I am Chief Financial Officer Miyazaki. I will talk about our improvement efforts,
including future activities.
The improvement efforts that led to the upward revision from the initial forecast are reflected in
visible figures such as price revisions, controlling incentives, and expansion of value chain profits.
However, what truly made this possible was the recovery and stabilization of production levels,
the ability to continuously maintain high product strength through ever-better cars manufacturing,
and the activities that each country and region have conducted while learning from each other,
leading to customer smiles.
As a symbol of Toyota's uniqueness, we have been building product and region-based
management. As we are striving in this activity this fiscal year, too, I feel that we will be able to
further enhance our earning power.
The transformation into a mobility company is something we believe can be built by repeatedly
talking on challenges together with partners who share the same aspirations. To achieve this, it is
essential to strengthen our competitiveness to win tough competitions and secure the financial
strength to sow seeds for the future. The strategies for this are to make more attractive and
better cars, and to increasingly deepen and extend our bonds with customers. Ultimately, it is
people who execute and realize these strategies.
This fiscal year, we have increased our investment in people and growth areas to JPY 830 billion.
We have actively worked on improving the workplace environment and reforming work styles to
enhance the overall appeal of the industry and people's energy to work. Even going forward, we
will continue to focus on creating an environment where our friends in the automotive industry
can be motivated to work harder.
We aim to ensure to spread and permeate among not only to leaderships and Tier 1 suppliers,
but also to deeper layers of Tier 2 suppliers and beyond. Of course, we will also actively invest in
growth areas to achieve further growth innovation.
A prime example of this is Woven City, which Chairman Akio Toyoda presented at the Consumerthe stage in five years, I believe he could sense that Toyota is continuously and intentionally
taking actions toward the future.
Woven City is a test course where inventors who have the mindset of for the sake of others
demonstrate mobility in a real-life environment. We will begin demonstrations combining Toyota's
strengths with those of external parties, products and services that could not be produced alone.
It is truly producing happiness for all with new partners. Additionally, towards producing happiness
for all that meets the diverse needs of our customers, we will further refine our multi-pathway
strategy, which is one of Toyota's strengths.
At the board meeting held this morning, we decided to establish a wholly-owned company for
the development and production of Lexus BEVs and batteries in Shanghai, China. We have just
released this announcement. Local Chinese members will take the lead in the end-to-end
process from planning development and production of BEVs that match the unique needs of
Chinese customers in a timely manner.
Our goal is to become a company that is more loved and supported by the people of China. The
new company is slated to start production in or after 2027, with annual production capacity of
approximately 100,000 and generate about 1,000 new jobs.
Additionally, Toyota Battery Manufacturing, North Carolina, our first overseas in-house battery
manufacturing company in the United States has finished preparations for production and will
start shipping batteries in April finally. This is our 11th manufacturing entity in the U.S. and the first
to produce batteries for hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrids, and battery electric vehicles in the
country. The investment totals $14 billion and we plan to create 5,000 jobs. We will further
strengthen our multi-pathway strategy through the local production of various batteries for
electric vehicles.
The financial results we announced today represent the culmination of the support we have
received from our customers for our efforts. What we truly value and strive for is the mass
production of smiles and happiness for each and every one of our customers. To achieve this
goal, it is essential that all our employees, including those of our suppliers and dealers, work with
a sense of purpose and enthusiasm to increase the smiles of all our stakeholders.
We believe that fostering thoughts like "I want to do better" and "I want to work here more" will
be the source of enhanced competitiveness for the entire automotive industry. Moving forward,
we will continue our effort to invest in people and growth areas actively to grow with all the
stakeholders. Thank you very much for your attention.
Questions And Answers
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Now we will start the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)
I would like to receive questions from as many participants as possible, so only up to one
question per person, please. If you participate by phone, we will not be able to take questions
from you, because we cannot identify your name. (Operator Instructions)
Now, from Citigroup Securities, Mr. Yoshida, please. Please wait while we connect the line. Please
unmute yourself.
Q - `Moritaka Yoshida, Analyst, Citigroup Securities `(interpreted) Thank you very much. So I can only ask one question. ROE 10%, nominator and
denominator, both -- are you going to accelerate the speed of transformation for both? For the
nominator, the earning power you said can be raised further. Earning power JPY 5 trillion. Through
the value chain, are you confident that you can raise that earning power further? And for the
denominator, what is the weight of the denominator? Are you intending to increase the
numerator only, or are you also going to focus on the denominator?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(interpreted) Thank you very much for your question. The nominator and denominator, we are
going to work on both. But I may be running a bit long, but rather than the ROE itself being a
target. Toyota intends to transform itself into a mobility company. So financially, our ROE is an
important indicator, so we have to measure whether we are moving towards that goal.
Looking back, there was a time when Toyota was incurring losses. What happened? We wanted
to transform ourselves into a company that can survive no matter what happens.
We were a -- we had a cost structure that was weak against changes, and we have to make sure
that we will not incur losses anymore and product and region-based management was done. And
after that, we now have a financial foundation that allows us to grow in a sustained manner.
The power of the Gemba to do everything to the end had a positive effect. The ROE, people say,
will have to be stably high at 10% or more. But the strength of the Gemba allowed us to be a
company that can aim at sustained 10%. So as we move towards being a mobility company,
frankly speaking, we don't know what is the correct answer. So frankly, we may be making
mistakes. But without fear, we now have a financial base which allows us to take up challenges
without fear.
So, as a car maker, we will continue to aim at producing happiness for all. And through cars, the
lives of the customers and the value of mobility will continue to be enhanced. And just like Mr.
Miyazaki mentioned, with Woven City and other initiatives to create new challenges, new
initiatives, we hope we will be able to improve on the numerator portion, improve productivity, or
acquire new sales is what we will aim at.
Now, for the denominator side, the owned capital portion. Ourselves, or human resources, is
included here. Toyota's TPS-like mindset is necessary to make improvements and improve our
productivity to take up challenges for innovation.
From the shareholders, we get the funds. So on our side, we have to think about how we can use
that for competitiveness. That is what is asked of us. So both, the numerator and denominator will
both have to be worked on for improvement.
The value chain of it is improving, as Mr. Miyazaki mentioned. So, for investments, we will seek
return, and taking all these initiatives will allow us to move towards a mobility company, to allow
us to measure whether we are moving towards our goal. So, if you can continue to watch us with
a supportive mind.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Thank you very much, Yoshida-san. Thank you very much.
From JP Morgan, Kishimoto-san, we will be connecting you through. So, Kishimoto-san, do you
think you can turn on your video and unmute yourself? Kishimoto-san, do you hear me?Q - `Akira Kishimoto, Analyst, JP Morgan `
(interpreted) Yes, please. Thank you. Sorry, it took me time. I am Kishimoto from JP Morgan.
Since the question is limited to one, let me ask you about your China business. Now, in the third
quarter, three months of the third quarter, operating income on the equity method, you have
faced a challenge.
From Q2 to Q3, operating income appears to have declined a level. Why did that happen, and
what is your immediate outlook? In addition to that, your new company in China, well, the
European brands in the area of BEV in China, they are facing a lot of challenge. So, how do you
plan to market your Lexus brand, Lexus BEV in China? Thank you.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(interpreted) Thank you for your questions. In the third quarter, overall, starting last year, we have
faced the time where we really have to weather the storm. Price competition is not something
that we wanted to be engulfed in. Therefore, stable production at the factory, as well as
understanding of the market situation, has allowed us to effectively use our marketing
expenditures.
We haven't really made a difference in what we do, and we have no intention of comparing
ourselves with our competitors. Although the volume may appear to have declined, it is not
something to be worried about. We will just continue what we do, aiming at a stable business.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) And this is Miyazaki speaking. I'd like to supplement, especially for the second part
of your question, in terms of our sales strategy in China.
In the second quarter, we talked about this, and in the third quarter as well. The China-based
companies have assured us that we are fairly benchmarked with Chinese competitors, although
the competition has become more intense and profitability is declining, but our profitability
continues to be on par with the local players. That is our understanding.
Now, as for the BEVs in China, we are building a new company, and our local Chinese members
will lead the end-to-end process from planning through production. We made that decision
because the Chinese market is different. Battery EV is something that the Chinese government is
very serious about growing the industry. That's the reason why we decided to establish a
company there.
Since they are earnest about battery vehicles, we should also be so in the Chinese market. That's
the reason why we made this decision. I am sure this experience will continue to harness our
ability to compete in the BEVs market.
Now, therefore, we are establishing this company as a wholly owned subsidiary. Going forward,
we will make even further efforts in to penetrate the Chinese Battery EV market. So this decision
really shows our determination for this market. And this is also a promise of creating jobs there.
At the board meeting this morning, we shared amongst the Directors such a motivation of ours.
Thank you for your question.
Q - `Akira Kishimoto, Analyst, JP Morgan `(interpreted) Understood. Thank you very much.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Unknown, Morgan Stanley
(interpreted) Mishimoto [ph] from Mizuho Securities.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Nishiyama-san [ph], please wait for the line to be connected. Nishiyama-san [ph],
can you hear me?
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Unknown, Morgan Stanley
(interpreted) This is Nishiyama [ph] from (Inaudible).
I have a question about production trend. According to media reports, we are annually a little bit
less than 10 million for 2025 from here. And if you look at the results now, for the full year,
production is 9.7 million. So I don't think there is any change. So if you do a simple calculation, 10
million plus alpha is probably what we can expect.
So the news report numbers and the numbers that we just heard, if you compare them, it seems
like you are thinking about some risk for the new fiscal year. So what is your image for the new
fiscal year? If there are any risks that you have identified by model or by region, can you tell us
about those?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(interpreted) Nishiyama-san [ph], let me answer your question.
As I mentioned at the previous meeting, so after the strengthening the foundation, we are going
back to cruising speed. And at last, we have reorganized our environment and we have started to
move towards the future. And the result was the upward revision due to our improvement efforts.
And if you look at the background, production was recovered and stabilized. In short, annual 10
million production is now possible.
According to the media reports, I don't know what the numbers were and I don't know where it
comes from. So it is different from what I understand, but that also 10 million for cruising speed.
Every year, through changes model, we are strengthening our products, so that we can provide
appealing and attractive cars to our customers. Of course, when we switch to a new model or
depending on the frequency of model change, there will be start-ups and end-of-production
vehicles. So there may be some ups and downs.
Over the full year, there may be a slight variation from 10 million, but basically, we can produce 10
million on a stable basis. We were able to establish an organization and structure that allows us to
do that.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Unknown, Morgan Stanley
(interpreted) Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Nishiyama -san [ph], thank you very much. Let's go on to Hakomori-san of Daiwa
Securities. I will connect your -- now, you're ready or you should be. Please unmute yourself and
ask a question.Q - `Eiji Hakomori, Analyst, Daiwa Securities `
(interpreted) Hello. I am Hakomori from Daiwa Securities. Thank you very much for this
opportunity.
Now, something outside of your financial reporting, about autonomous driving, robotaxis. What
do you do in those areas? Hybrid vehicles came out in 2024 to reduce your gap with Tesla.
However, Tesla's share prices are skyrocketing with their BEVs for the robotaxi.
So, ADAS and robotaxi are the areas you haven't really made announcements in the past couple
of years. So, what is the current status? What is your competitive position in that marketplace?
A - `Hiroyuki Ueda, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
(interpreted) Thank you very much. I am Ueda from Public Affairs. Thank you for your question.
As for autonomous driving or SDVs, software-defined vehicles, you're very right. Including media
reports, we have not really proactively communicated our efforts over those areas to you.
Probably, we have focused more on the environmental performance.
But then, when it comes to autonomous driving technologies, our aim remains to eliminate the
number of traffic accident deaths to zero. And that aim continues to be so as we go ahead with
our R&D.
In the United States, we have TRI, and we have Woven U.S. bases where the cutting-edge
autonomous driving technologies are constantly researched and developed. And we're seeking
collaborators as well.
In China or in the United States, the cutting-edge technologies for robotaxis have come out.
Although there is nothing concrete that we can share with you today, in various fronts, we are
working with different collaborators to target eliminating totally the fatal traffic accidents.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) I may want to supplement for autonomous driving. As has been mentioned, Woven
City is where the technology will be tried out and demonstrated.
We foresee the autonomous driving for eliminating fatal traffic accidents. With the help of Gen AI,
we will continue our efforts of research and development.
Now, in terms of robotaxis, the question is how you make that a business. Our role there would
probably be the supplier of the cars, vehicles. And out of our efforts in autonomous driving
technology research, we may be able to offer more going forward.
Now, Hakomori-san, as you mentioned this, I really regret that we have not really communicated
our efforts in that area. It's a learning for us. I will remember your comment. Thank you very much.
Q - `Eiji Hakomori, Analyst, Daiwa Securities `
(interpreted) Thank you. Well, Miyazaki-san, so Woven appears to play an extremely important
role. But then, when it becomes operational and is ready to send out communications, how many
years do we have to wait? In the area of EVs and in autonomous driving, I hope you will send
messages out to us, to the market.A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) We will do so. Thank you, Hakomori-san.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) We are waiting for questions, so please indicate your name and affiliation on Zoom
if you wish to ask a question.
Naruse-san from Okasan Securities, please wait for connection. Naruse-san, we have connected
you, so if possible, please turn on your camera and microphone.
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Analyst, Okasan Securities `
(interpreted) Thank you very much. My name is Naruse from Okasan Securities.
We are two consolidated subsidiaries. I have a question about your policy. First, Hino, you will be
paying sanction money, and they are short of both funds and capital. Towards integration, what
kind of discussions are they having with Hino and Daimler Trucks? And recently, because of a lack
of funds, will you be using group finance? And also, they only have 9% of our capital, so what kind
of support do you have in mind?
So, tell us about your thinking. And the second, CJPT and CJPT, I have to come back to them. So,
there was talk about rethinking the role of the company, but what is your thinking?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(interpreted) Thank you very much for your question. About Hino, ourselves and Daimler are
having discussions towards integration.
And as you mentioned, the sanctions were decided upon, as you mentioned. What used to be
uncertain is now clear, so I think that is a positive.
Who will be paying? How do you get the funds?
Even after integration, we have to make sure that Hino can play its role. We have to make sure
that we have a solid plan for integration. Of course, with Daimler and Fuso, we are having a
discussion.
So, what are we going to do with the capital or funds? We are not able to discuss details today,
but please be assured that things are moving.
For Daihatsu, Daihatsu itself, by their intention, left CJPT, but now they came back. So, I think that
shows their intention to come back and be at the starting line. J stands for Japan, and so the
alliance of Japanese manufacturers, including Daihatsu, are now at the starting line which is a
positive move. Of course, we are still -- they are still on their way for improvement.
So, if you can continue to watch closely.
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Analyst, Okasan Securities `
(interpreted) Thank you very much. Just for confirmation, Hino, yourself and Daimler Truck, how
much will they be providing? That has not changed from your original plan, and you are moving?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `(interpreted) We are currently having close discussions.
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Analyst, Okasan Securities `
(interpreted) Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Naruse-san, thank you.
From UBS, Takahashi-san. I will connect your audio. Takahashi-san, do you mind turning on your
video and start asking your question?
Q - `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS `
(interpreted) Thank you. Hello. I am Takahashi, `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Thank you very much
for this opportunity.
Now, investors look at ROE 20%. Well, qualitatively, I understand the story, but what is your
timeline expectations? Your transformation into a mobility company appears to be a long-term
vision. You have to have cars. You have to have OTA with autonomous driving features. So,
probably it is 10 years away. If that is the case, the denominator control, unwinding of cross-
holdings, demerger of non-profitable businesses, whatever you can control, there should be
areas low-hanging fruits where you can control.
But then, this ROE 20%, I wonder when do you think you can achieve that? And before you go
into that, you probably go through 15%. So, what will be the milestone? Unwinding of cross-
holding or selling off of unprofitable businesses, what will be the timeline that you have in mind?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(interpreted) Thank you for your question. We have not really made any announcements about
when we achieve the number, but rather, maintaining the steady path is something that we
constantly aim at.
Currently, 15% is being talked about. Sometimes we reach 15%, but is it stable? Probably not.
Therefore, the timeline could be a long-term, but what is more important is for us to make sure
that we make wise decisions in terms of subsidiaries and own equities in the denominator space.
If we reduce the denominator, can we achieve ROE 20%? We do not think that way. But capital
efficiency is something that we constantly seek. As we change ourselves into a mobility company,
the traditional business of building new models and sell probably will change.
But in what way is yet to be learned. We will have to learn while we run, and on the way, we will
make mistakes, which will be another learning point, and we will continue to validate what we do
constantly. Therefore, please understand that we do not have any timeline targets.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) Takahashi-san, now, ROE is a scale of ascertaining that we are on track of becoming
a mobility company because when we become a mobility company, Toyota will be a totally
different animal. Well, from 10% going up to about 20% is a major change, and without such a
major change, we are probably not there as a mobility company.So, that's the reason why we decided to use ROE as a scale to see whether we are on track. We
may go up from 10% to 15% to 16% and 17% steadily, and our business may change from 10
million vehicles, and through woven initiatives, we may see increased proportion of totally new
business that we create with our partners and collaborators. JPY 4.7 trillion is the number that we
shared with you today with the upward revision.
As I mentioned earlier, nearly half of the revenues are now coming from the value chain earnings,
so we are shifting from flow business to stock business.
So within the new mobility company, we will continue the efforts of creating new revenue
resources, and then through such efforts, we may end up having 20% in ROE, and we end up
being a mobility company. The switching over the assets is something that could happen along
the way.
Q - `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS `
(interpreted) I see. Thank you. Well, from outside in, if you can share with us ROE percentage
increase in five years, for example, with specific KPIs, it will be more understandable.
Your discussion remains rather qualitative than quantitative, so going forward, I hope you will
refine your communications. Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Thank you very much. We are waiting for questions. If you have any questions,
please change the indication on your Zoom. State [ph] your name and affiliation, and use the
raise hand button.
Currently, there is nobody raising their hand, so are there any questions, please use your raise
hand button.
Thank you very much. Mr. Hakomori from Daiwa Securities, so we will connect to you. Mr.
Hakomori, please.
Q - `Eiji Hakomori, Analyst, Daiwa Securities `
(interpreted) Yes [ph]. Thank you very much. Again, this is Hakomori from Daiwa Securities. This is
the second time. Can I ask my second question?
Just two points [ph] to the next question. There weren't many questions today about the
business results, JPY 152 for Q3 was the exchange rate, and JPY 500 billion at this rate is what
you mentioned for the first half. And -- but for the exchange rate, I do understand that your
earning power is higher than before. I think everybody today understands that. But traditionally,
you've been incorporating a risk buffer in your calculation, but your production has recovered, and
also looking at the U.S. sales. If you can tell us about the current business status.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) And frankly speaking, when we started the fiscal year, production volume, we were
expecting it might be a bit higher. I think we started with that in mind. But when things started,
more so than we had expected, the Gemba people were very exhausted. And identifying the
source of that fatigue is something that we took time for.But we had a conversation with the media people, too. Before COVID, regular employees
accounted for more than half of the employees. And we were running the workplace with that
structure.
But post-COVID, if you look at the workplace, the regular employees are about half, and the
remaining half is outsourced people. So, that is something that has changed. But at the same
time, after COVID, the order backlog is something that we had.
And in order to eliminate that order backlog, we forced people at the Gemba to work harder
than their capacity. In order to adjust that perception, it took some time for us. So, the numbers
didn't grow as we had expected. And so, we are operating based on the plan at the moment.
So, it took longer than we had expected. But -- so we weren't able to have a large positive effect
as we had expected. But per day, 14,000 units is something that we have achieved since the end
of last year. So at a cruising speed, annual 10 million units is something that we can achieve.
So, now the question is, what can we do from now? And if we look -- if you look at the sales
numbers, there are some warning signals when it comes to economic indicators. But demand in
the United States may be supported by the stock prices, and it is solid.
So inventory in the United States, on average, is only for 10 days. That is the current status. And
for -- the real demand is still very strong. And how much production can be achieved stably is --
will be a challenge for the next year.
But on the other hand, for Asia and other countries, the market and the situation is very tough.
So, we will look at the demand in each market and look at the supply-demand balance.
And that would be very important when it comes to operations. Definitely testing our skills for
operations. But our members, I think, have the skills to balance supply and demand.
Q - `Eiji Hakomori, Analyst, Daiwa Securities `
(interpreted) Thank you very much. At this exchange rate, JPY 4.7 trillion for the full year. So a
negative impact for the forex. And then there is the Hino issue. So after adjustment, do you think,
Mr. Miyazaki, that the trade has done well?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) Yes. The one-time cost amidst no growth in volume, they have been able to achieve
JPY 4.7 trillion. We started with JPY 5 trillion in earning power plus investment in human resources.
But personally, maybe I shouldn't say this to our members because it will pressure them. About
half of their improvement efforts is something that I would like to use from my pocket as CFO.
Q - `Eiji Hakomori, Analyst, Daiwa Securities `
(interpreted) Sorry, it was too long. Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Thank you very much. Now, through online chat, we received a question from a U.S.
investor. What would be the impact from tariff on imports from Mexico and Canada into the
United States?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `(interpreted) Thank you. I would like to respond to that question. I may have to say rather abstract
in responding to this, but in the U.S., in Canada, in Mexico, we do have business. And we always
strive to become a company that is loved by each of those different markets. We will stay that
way. But then the business environment around us change.
Under such circumstances, continued investment and stable opportunity for jobs is something
that we can constantly offer. So our supporters and partners, Tier 1, 2, 3 suppliers of ours, they all
support us as we conduct our business. And in order to build bond with our customers, our
dealer's network remains extremely important.
And from that perspective, the impact of our decision tends to be quite sizable. And the impact
will be felt in the wide range. Therefore, we have to be very careful about our decision.
Otherwise, we won't be able to maintain flexibility and agility of us and our supply chain.
At this point in time, uncertainties remain. We should not really make decisions hastily over
speculations. Therefore, we run multiple simulations for different situations.
And as the situation becomes clearer with less uncertainty, we will eventually make decisions and
take a quick action after making decisions. And Toyota Group of Company has a trait of being
able to be extremely nimble and agile once the decision is made. And that's what Akio-san built
Toyota as a company.
So when we are ready, we make a decision and we execute on the decision quickly.
Thank you very much.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) We are starting to run out of time, so the next question will be the last question.
From Morgan Stanley, MUFG Securities, Kakeshi-san [ph]. If possible, please turn on your camera.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Unknown, Morgan Stanley
(interpreted) My name is Kakeshi [ph] from Morgan Stanley.
I would like to ask about the Chinese Lexus (inaudible) company. Currently, you have a joint
venture site. And so you have 100% subsidiary site and JV expense. So, when it comes to
development and procurement, are you expecting a synergy [ph]? Or as this is a 100%
subsidiary, will the operations be separate? So, can you tell us about that business in China?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
(interpreted) Thank you very much. As I mentioned before, the decision. China is serious about
the EV. So we have to be serious as well. We have to create cars that will be accepted by Chinese
consumers. That will be the first challenge. So, we have to work on that and achieve that. That will
be our first goal.
And once we have achieved that, as Kakeshi-san [ph] mentioned, there may be other
possibilities. And those are things that we will consider in the future. But now, we will try to create
EEVs that will be welcomed and accepted by Chinese customers. So we will work on that
seriously.
Thank you very much.A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations `
(interpreted) Kakeshi-san [ph], thank you very much.
Now, it is almost time to close this session. And with all those questions exhausted, we would like
to conclude the briefing today. Thank you very much for joining us today, taking time out of your
presumably busy schedule. If you have any further questions, please contact our IR.
Thank you very much.