Q1 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Francesca
DeMartino, Chief Investment Relations Officer and Senior Vice President. Please go ahead,
ma'am.
`Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Senior Vice President `
Good morning, and welcome to Pfizer's Earnings Call. I'm `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor
Relations Officer. On behalf of the Pfizer team, thank you for joining us. This call is being made
available via audio webcast at pfizer.com. Earlier this morning, we released our results for the first
quarter of 2025 via a press release that is available on our website at pfizer.com. I'm joined today
by Dr. `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and CEO; and `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO. Albert and Dave have
some prepared remarks and we will then open the call for questions. Members of our leadership
team will also be available for the Q&A session. Before we get started, I want to remind you that
we will be making forward-looking statements and discussing certain non-GAAP financial
measures.I encourage you to read the disclaimers in our slide presentation, the press release we issued
this morning and the disclosures in our SEC filings, which are all available on the IR website on
pfizer.com. Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks, and
uncertainties speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update
or revise any of the statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Francesca. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call. We are very
pleased with our performance in the first quarter as we continued to execute with focus and
discipline on our strategic priorities. We are strengthening our R&D organization in our efforts to
advance our pipeline and productivity. We are maximizing the value of key products in our
commercial portfolio, and we are improving operating margins with our continued progress in
making our company more efficient.
In the current volatile external environment, the underlying strength of our business and strong
relationships with government leaders across the world help us navigate with agility. While we
continue to engage and plan for contingencies, we're focusing day to day on what we can do to
move our business forward. I want to emphasize our continued confidence that we are well
positioned to enhance shareholder value.
Now, I'll turn to our top strategic priority in 2025, improving R&D productivity as we advance our
pipeline with sharpened focus. We are intensifying our rigorous commercial assessment and
portfolio prioritization from early clinical development. This means we will be disciplined in
managing our portfolio, directing investment and attention to potential blockbuster or mega-
blockbuster, and scrutinizing the total number of assets under development. Our danuglipron
announcement earlier this month demonstrates our commitment to this approach. Discontinuing
the development of danuglipron, one of the candidates in our obesity portfolio, although difficult,
was the right decision for the company.
Going forward, we are committed to building our cardiometabolic pipeline, including obesity, by
advancing internal programs such as our GIPR antagonist and pursuing external opportunities that
could include partnerships or acquisitions. We will continue to be disciplined as we move through
key decision points for our pipeline or our business development targets. We believe we have
the potential to address significant patient need with differentiated approaches that focus on
supporting optimal weight management and related conditions. We will work on potential
medicines and combination regimens that could be more accessible, better tolerated, easier to
dose, and more effective in supporting the right effects on body composition and muscle mass.
In addition to sharpening our focus in Internal Medicine, since expanding his role in January as our
Chief Scientific Officer, `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development has moved both thoughtfully and quickly in reshaping our
R&D organization to also center on Oncology, Vaccines and Inflammation & Immunology in
addition to Internal Medicine. Chris has enhanced his leadership team with some terrific additions
who are recognized as leaders in their field. Patrizia Cavazzoni is our new Chief Medical Officer,
Jeff Legos is our new Chief Oncology Officer and Jim List is our new Chief Internal Medicine
Officer. These leaders each bring many years of experience, deep expertise and proven track
records in guiding the discovery, development and approval of practice-changing therapies, and
they are an excellent addition to our already strong cast of leaders in R&D.
We are on track for a strong year of anticipated pipeline catalysts in 2025. We are makingup to nine Phase 3 readouts, and a significant series of pivotal program starts. With one of our
key Oncology programs, we aim to bring forward what could represent the first potential
treatment advancement in more than 30 years for patients with BCG-naive, high-risk non-muscle
invasive bladder cancer. We are encouraged by a positive readout of the pivotal Phase 3 CREST
trial of sasanlimab in combination with BCG, a current standard of care. We presented the full
data from this study this past weekend at the annual meeting of the American Urological
Association.
Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer is a condition predominantly treated by urologists. In multiple
market research and focus group studies, urologists stated a significant preference for a
subcutaneous PD-1 because it can be used in their practices and eliminates the need to refer
their patients to infusion centers. We also anticipate meaningful readouts this year for Padcev and
Elrexfio. Padcev already is a core therapy in our Oncology portfolio. Padcev + pembrolizumab is
the most prescribed first-line treatment for locally advanced metastatic urothelial cancer in the
US. We are working toward more than doubling the total addressable patient population in the US
for Padcev with potentially registrational interim data we expect this year from ongoing pivotal
studies in muscle invasive bladder cancer.
We are also working to reach a significantly expanded population of patients with multiple
myeloma. We're anticipating a Phase 3 readout this year for Elrexfio in a study for double-class
exposed relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. If successful and approved, this would more than
double the addressable population versus the currently approved indication. In addition to the
increased addressable population, moving to earlier lines of therapy is expected to increase the
duration of treatment and potentially create an inflection point in Elrexfio's growth.
We expect to begin pivotal studies for our investigational PDL1 vedotin ADC later this year. This
will be for first-line metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and second-line non-small
cell lung cancer. We also anticipate a first-line pivotal study start for SV, Sigvotatug Vedotin. This is
a novel integrin beta 6-targeting vedotin ADC that, if successful and approved has the
opportunity to change the standard of care globally for IB6-expressing tumors.
Both these ADCs, PDL1V and SV are potential first-in-class ADCs using a vedotin payload that
elicits immuno-cell -- immunogenic cell death, and in combination with an immune checkpoint
inhibitor demonstrates significant results. Early data for PDL1V and SV in combination with
pembrolizumab are highly encouraging. With both ADCs, we are targeting non-small cell lung
cancer, the most frequently diagnosed cancer globally, and the leading cause of cancer-related
deaths. Lung cancer represents a substantial area of patient need and a growing market with the
highest projected CAGR in Oncology through 2030.
In vaccines, another of our priority therapeutic areas, we see opportunities to enhance and
augment our strong positions in the market. We are also planning a potential registrational study
in adults later this year with our fourth generation PCV candidate. With our fourth and fifth
generation PCV candidates, we believe we can build on our leadership in the industry. Our fourth
generation candidate covers 25 serotypes, including potentially improved immunogenicity for
serotype 3, which is one of the largest remaining contributors of disease. We are also working to
accelerate progress with our fifth-generation candidate, which is in preclinical development and
covers over 30 serotypes.
As we continue to scrutinize the number of programs we are actively advancing, we will have
opportunities to accelerate or add others to help address significant patient needs. One example
is the recent accelerated start of a pivotal study of Nurtec for menstrually-related migraine, which
is estimated to impact more than half of women who experience migraine. We look forward toproviding future updates about our pipeline progress as we continue to sharpen our focus on our
most meaningful programs in prioritized therapeutic areas.
Commercial excellence is our key categories -- in our key categories is another 2025 strategic
priority. More than a year ago, we decided to separate the US and International operations. Under
the leadership of `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief US Commercial Officer, and `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President, our
Chief International Commercial Officer, we refined our commercial model to bring heightened
focus helping us strategically prioritize our most impactful products and regions. It is working well.
In the US, our team demonstrated focus, the strength of our key products and continuous
improvement in execution. In International, we are back to operational growth in the first quarter
across all parts of the division. This was the result of prioritization and disciplined focus on key
growth drivers to maximize return and accelerate new product penetration.
Our performance was strong both in the US and International markets across several key
products, including the Vyndaqel family, Nurtec, Padcev and Lorbrena. Our Vyndaqel family of
products had robust growth in the quarter, though we are seeing the impact of competition with
a new market entrant and we anticipate this will continue through the year.
We will work towards maintaining our market-leading position that has come from six years of
establishing credibility and expertise with the cardiology community. Our team remains
committed to addressing high unmet patient need by helping to improve diagnosis and ensuring
appropriate patients with ATTR-Cardiomyopathy receive treatment.
Demand continued to strengthen for Nurtec, with revenue growing 40% operationally in the
quarter. Our commercial teams effectively engaged with health care professionals and we were
pleased with strong outperformance of our newly launched consumer campaigns.
We are pleased with the continued strength also of our Oncology portfolio. Padcev, for example,
grew 25% operationally, driven by increased market share in first-line metastatic urothelial cancer.
Lorbrena grew 39% operationally, as we continued to see strong adoption with its emerging, as a
potential first-line standard of care for patients with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer.
I&I is another key commercial category for Pfizer, and we are drawing on our extensive
experience in launching medicines in this therapeutic area. Familiarity among health care
professionals continued to improve for Cibinqo, which grew 42% operationally in the quarter. Our
commercial team is continuing to work towards increased patient access for this JAK inhibitor for
patients aged 12 and up with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis.
With Litfulo, we are encouraged by the growth we have seen to date. We will seek to further
unlock access to this advanced systemic treatment for patients with severe alopecia areata.
These highlights show how we are positioned to further expand and sustain our performance
trajectory among our key brands.
And with that, now I will turn it to Dave to speak about the other two strategic priorities.
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert, and good morning. I'll begin this morning by reinforcing the fact that our solid
financial results demonstrate our strong executional focus. We continue to concentrate on driving
positive patient outcomes and delivering on our financial commitments while navigating an ever-
complex external environment. Our productivity improvement programs continue to drive a moreexpect to improve our cash flows, reduce our debt leverage and have more flexibility for our
three capital allocation pillars. Our focus remains on creating long-term shareholder value. We will
continue to invest in our business for the long term while prudently returning capital to our
shareholders.
Now first, let me start with our first quarter results; second, I'll touch on our capital allocation
priorities, and then I'll touch upon our cost improvement initiatives. I'll finish up with a few
comments on the macro environment, and our 2025 guidance, which we are reaffirming today.
For the first quarter 2025, we recorded revenues of $13.7 billion, a decline of 6% operationally.
The decline was largely due to lower Paxlovid revenues, in part due to last year's one-time
Paxlovid revenue credit recorded in Q1 of '24. In addition, US revenue was tempered by changes
in the IRA Medicare Part D design, which took effect in the first quarter. Partially offsetting the
decline was growth in several in-line products in the US and overall growth internationally. On the
bottom line, we reported first quarter 2025 diluted EPS of $0.52, and adjusted diluted earnings
per share of $0.92, ahead of our expectations, due to overall strong gross margin and cost
management performance.
Our performance continues to show that our refined commercial approach is working. We
continue to focus on key products and geographies, the deployment of our commercial field
resources globally, and the continued optimization of our marketing resources into key priority
areas. We saw strong contributions across our product portfolio primarily driven by the Vyndaqel
family, Comirnaty, Padcev, Nurtec and Lorbrena which were more than offset by declines in
Paxlovid, Eliquis, Xeljanz and Ibrance.
Adjusted gross margin for the quarter expanded to approximately 81%, primarily the result of
favorability in accrued royalties, partially offset by unfavorable product mix. Focus on cost
management across our manufacturing network will remain a priority.
Total Adjusted operating expenses were $5.2 billion for the first quarter of '25, a 12% decline
operationally versus last year. Now looking at the components, adjusted SI&A expenses
decreased 12% operationally, primarily reflecting our ongoing productivity improvements driving a
decrease in marketing and promotional spend for various products as well as lower spending in
corporate enabling functions. Adjusted R&D expenses also decreased 12% operationally, driven
primarily by a decline in spending due to our pipeline optimization efforts expected to be
reinvested later this year and into next year. We continue to be disciplined with our operational
expense management.
Q1 reported diluted earnings per share were $0.52 and our adjusted diluted earnings per share
were $0.92 which benefited from our efficient operating structure, in addition to favorable global
income tax resolutions in multiple tax jurisdictions spanning multiple tax years as well as a
favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings.
With that, now let me quickly touch upon our capital allocation strategy, which is designed to
enhance long term shareholder value. Our strategy consists of: Maintaining and growing our
dividend over time; Reinvesting in our business at an appropriate level of financial return, and;
Making value enhancing share repurchases. In Q1, we returned $2.4 billion to shareholders via our
quarterly dividend; invested $2.2 billion in our internal R&D; and completed business development
activity as expected was minimal.
We achieved our 3.25x gross leverage target at the end of 2024, a key priority towards
improving our capacity for business development. In addition, the monetization of our Haleon
investment has contributed to our improved cash position. As a reminder, in January, wemonetized approximately $3.0 billion of our Haleon shares and, in March, we monetized the last
tranche of our Haleon shares, receiving approximately $3.3 billion in net cash proceeds. With this
sale we have now fully exited our ownership in Haleon. Overall, our objective remains to de-lever
our balance sheet over time, which will further support our return to a more balanced allocation
of capital between reinvestment and direct return to shareholders.
We continue to be disciplined on our operational expense management, progressing multiple
improvement programs as we remain focused on driving long-term margin improvement over
the coming years. We expect -- we continue to expect initial savings from Phase 1 of our
Manufacturing Optimization Program in the latter part of this year with approximately $1.5 billion in
savings from Phase 1 that's expected by the end of 2027. In addition, we are progressing the
evaluation of other strategies to improve our network structure and product portfolio,
respectively.
As part of our goal to return to a pre-pandemic operating margins, we remain on track to deliver
on our goal of at least $4.5 billion in cumulative net cost savings from our ongoing cost
realignment program by the end of this year. And today, we've announced our expectation that
this program will deliver an additional $1.2 billion in net savings, primarily in SI&A, and in part by
leveraging digital enablement, including automation and AI, as well as simplification of our
business processes. The savings are expected to be fully realized by the end of 2027.
Furthermore, we have identified additional opportunities to drive improvements in productivity
and operational efficiency in our R&D organization again through enhanced digital enablement as
well as automation. We expect approximately $500 million in savings associated with these
efforts to be realized by the end of 2026 with the savings re-invested within our R&D programs.
In total, we expect approximately $7.7 billion in savings by the end of 2027 to drive operating
efficiency, strengthening our business with the potential of contributing significantly to our bottom
line over this period.
Now, let me turn to our full year 2025 guidance. As you are aware, the pharmaceutical industry is
currently navigating a complex global landscape shaped by rapidly evolving trade and tariff
policies. To help navigate this fluid environment, we've established a cross functional team to
analyze a range of potential outcomes while developing strategies to help us mitigate the
potential impact to our business in both the short and long term. These actions include the
management of current inventory levels in certain jurisdictions, leveraging our domestic
manufacturing footprint, and the potential production of certain API and products in the US.
Should we be impacted by further tariffs in the future, we will assess the impact of these policies
enacted and provide information at the appropriate time.
Let me now spend a few minutes on our 2025 guidance which remains unchanged, and, to be
clear, does not include the potential impact of future changes in trade and tariff policies. We
expect total company full-year 2025 revenues to be in the range of $61 billion to $64 billion, and
full-year 2025 adjusted diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.80 to $3.00 a share,
which reflects our expectation of strong contributions across our product portfolio, and our focus
disciplined on cost management. As we finish Q1 with earnings strength, and excluding the
potential impact related to future trade changes, we are currently trending toward the upper end
of our adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance range.
In closing, let me emphasize several key aspects of our business. We will continue our focus on
executing to maximize the commercial value of our product portfolio and we remain committed
to driving value-creating innovation while strengthening our pipeline. Additionally, our cost
improvement programs are set to deliver operating margin expansion, expected productivitygains will be driven by leveraging our digital capabilities and simplifying our business processes.
Our improved balance sheet sets the stage for more balanced and enhanced capital deployment
focused on creating value for our shareholders.
And with that, I will now turn it back over to Albert for Q&A.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Operator, please assemble the queue and let's start the Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions). We'll go first to `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Guggenheim Partners with Guggenheim. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Guggenheim Partners `
Great. Thanks so much for taking the questions. Maybe two if I could. So one just I appreciate your
prepared remarks, we maintained the dividend, your commitment to maintaining and growing the
dividend over time. But I think we've just gotten sort of increasing questions about this from
investors over the last few months, especially with some of the tariff uncertainty and how that
might impact cash flows and obviously, you're now talking about maybe getting more active on
the business development side. So maybe just to reinforce that if -- one more time and nothing
else, just taking the level of commitment you have there and even if there is an impact from the
tariff side, you still feel comfortable in being able to maintain and grow that?
And then my second question is around your -- (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
David will -- (Multiple Speakers) Go ahead, Vamil. Sorry.
Q - `Vamil Divan, Analyst, Guggenheim Partners `
Okay. Yes. I just had one other, if I could, just on the COVID business and just your views that
obviously you understand the nuances around the Paxlovid sales this quarter and obviously,
vaccine sales will come late in the year, but do you still see that business being relatively stable
this year relative to last year, or has that changed from what your expectations were at the
beginning of the year? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Vamil. David will tell you about dividend and then Aamir and Alexandre about the
COVID business.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah, Vamil, clearly, consistent with my prepared remarks, the dividend remains a critical
component and a key component of our capital allocation strategy. As you can tell, we've been
very focused on improving the operating margin and performance of our business, thus
improving our cash flow yield over time. This is all in support of all of our capital allocation
priorities with dividend being a key component of that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Dave. And let's start with Aamir.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Vamil. So, you asked about Paxlovid. Paxlovid utilization trends very closely to infection
rates. And we see a 50% treatment rate and close to an 80% fulfillment rate when there's
infection, and we've set up a very good commercial model to do that. I think what you saw in Q1
was largely the function of the fact that we have a lower winter wave, but we still treated over
750,000 patients starting the year with about 100,000 a week and tapering off at around
35,000 to 40,000. And while these numbers are lower than the consensus numbers, they're
very much in line with our expectations and what we track for the business. And what we've seen
in multiple years now is that over the course of the year, you have two COVID waves, one in the
summer, and one in the winter, the peaks and valleys and the timing of those vary, but we have
had consistently multiple waves. And our baseline assumption is that we will have those waves
this year as well and that we will be able to execute our business, including PAX utilization in the
way that I described consistent with those waves.
We've also set up a model where we can successfully transition the Medicare PAP patients out of
USG and into our traditional Medicare model beginning March 1st of this year. And so, we can't
predict exactly what the timing and shape of those waves will be, but we're ready to execute
against it.
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah. On international, I will start with (inaudible) as you know, international Comirnaty is bigger
than Paxlovid. On Comirnaty, we beat consensus quite nicely with by $130 million, essentially
driven by execution. As you know, in international, December is in the Q1 of 2025. So in
December, we continue to execute our contract in the UK and in Europe. And in competitive
setup like in Japan, we maintain very strong leadership there until the end of the vaccination. Now
as we move into Q2 and Q3, we will start actually shipping our vaccine into Southern Hemisphere
countries where vaccination campaign is going to start and in particular in Brazil where we won
the two-year contract for adult, which is a very important vaccination country.
Now, on -- when we talk about Paxlovid, you know Paxlovid is smaller internationally, and we
performed as we were expected. We have now Paxlovid commercially sold in 49 markets. So
there is no more advanced purchasing phenomenon. So it's really associated with utilization. The
point is in international, we have actually low utilization compared to the US, so we still need to do
some work in terms of utilization and treatment.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alexandre. Operator, please, the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets with BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. And I did want to touch on the reasons for
the danu discontinuation, but I more want to look forward, as you think about a potential obesity
asset, what are some key aspects of the profile that you're looking for either from an internal
perspective or potentially externally? Thank you so much.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let's start with Chris and then go to Andrew.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
Thanks very much. Thanks for the question. Yes, as Albert has stated, danuglipron was the right
decision for Pfizer based on totality of data. And as we stated previously, a single asymptomatic
participant in a dose optimization study with rapid dose titration experienced a potential drug-
induced liver injury, which recovered rapidly after treatment discontinuation. Although we're not
100% sure this is due to danuglipron, the risk was high enough for us to discontinue the program
while still being committed to obesity and employing our global resources for other
opportunities.
Cardiovascular metabolic is one of our core strategies within internal medicine, an area with
significant remaining unmet need. And just a reminder, for obesity alone, up to 60% of patients
discontinued current approved medicines after 24 months. We will continue to apply our global
capabilities to advance our pipeline of differentiated oral medicines, including our oral GIPR
antagonist, currently in Phase 2 and advancing our preclinical portfolio to the clinic. We believe the
future will be more fragmented based on differentiated or unique combinations with an emphasis
on tolerability, accessibility and convenience. The future will also become more personalized
based on combinations addressing specific diseases and associated with obesity and with
metabolic dysfunction, including neurology, cardiovascular and respiratory.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Andrew?
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah. I mean, I think Chris gave you a faithful answer. I would just underline that although you
referenced obesity, the role of incretins and potentially other modalities or targets more broadly
needs not to be underestimated. And obviously, this extends beyond cardiovascular medicine
and we're interested in all the potential opportunities that exist with these molecules. In terms of
which assets or which portfolio of assets we're seeking to build, I think there's two axis, number
one obviously is clinical differentiation, and Albert referenced some of the ways you can do that in
terms of scheduling, tolerability, muscle preservation, but there are others too. But then
separately, there's commercial differentiation, which really references the indications that we
pursue. So, I hope that gives you some idea of our direction of travel. And when we have
something to say, you'll be the first to know.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Good to know. Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Tim Anderson, Analyst, BofA Securities with Bank of America.
.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, BofA Securities `Thank you. I have a question on tariffs. I figured if anyone is close to this, it's probably Pfizer,
Albert being as your Chairman of Pharma. If sector-specific tariffs come true, do you think that's
likely to be through the 232 investigation route? Or do you think it could still happen somehow
through the IEPA route? To me, it seems like it would be 232, but not everyone agrees. And your
best sense of timing for when everyone might have more information from the administration?
And then last question, is it an absolute pipe dream to think that sector-specific tariffs might really
only be applied to countries that could in fact pose a threat to national security like China. It's hard
to see Ireland being an enemy of the country.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tim, and I would agree with the last comment that you made also. But let me tell you
where we stand with tariffs. First of all, we had on April 2nd, an executive order about basically
placed tariffs across the board to everything we can see or feel or dream, except two things,
pharmaceuticals and semiconductors. Clearly, there is risk going forward, but it's a very, very
different ball game. If you are part of the tariffs and you hope to be excluded, then if you are not
part, and you try not to be included.
Then on April 14th, the administration made even more clear what is their concern with the
pharmaceutical sectoral investigation. And they made it clear by launching it through a 232, which
as you pointed out, it is an investigation that is connected with national security threats. This is not
something new. The first Trump administration had expressed serious concerns about several
essential medicines that they are made outside the US. The Biden continued with these concerns.
Actually, the Trump administration had also a list that had created with those medicines in the first
one. And now with the second Trump administration, not only through the 232, but through my
discussions with the highest level of the government, they are confirming that this is their primary
concern, and I think it's legitimate.
I think no country wants to have critical medicines produced outside of the country particular they
don't want to have critical medicines produced in countries that tensions are high or can be
escalated. So there is, I think, a very clear distinction in the way that they look at it in terms of what
products they are talking about, and there is a very clear distinction as to what comes from
friendly countries or what comes from adversary countries.
So with all of that in mind and knowing that we are engaging and we have very productive
discussions with all the secretaries that are involved and the White House staff that are involved
into that, I'm cautiously optimistic, as I said, given the data that we have not been there, and I
hope that we will weather it successfully.
We will walk with the administration to make sure that their concern on national security will be
addressed with the best possible way. I think that was the only question, right? Yes. So let's go to
the next question please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you. And two questions. The first one is very similar to the one that Tim just asked, and that
is, Albert, given your unique insights into the thinking in Washington, do you think MFN legislation
is only the most remote of possibilities or even simply not going to happen?And then secondly, what is the percent utilization of the US plants? It is -- it's great to have this
vast network in the US, but if there's little or no excess capacity or flexibility, then it's a more
limited advantage. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
No, thank you very much for both the questions. Look on the MFN, first of all, I can't speak about
what will be the intentions of the government, but I can comment on what I have seen so far, and
the President issued an executive order that was focusing on pharmaceutical, that was very, very
extensive. So cover a lot of topics over there. MFN was not mentioned over there. On the
contrary, what was mentioned over there was the pill penalty, but he instructed so that we will
find ways to resolve. What was mentioned over there was PBM reform and transferring of
rebates to the PACE. What was mentioned over there was 340B reform.
So, I would say that clearly, or one can say that when the President issues an executive order, then
you can read into what are the priorities of the administration. And I think that so far, what the way
I have seen it, it is the PACE, the pill penalty, it is the 340B, it is the PBM reform and it is to lower
the cost for the patients because right now in the US, the patients, they are paying
disproportionately out of pocket for their medicines compared to other medical interventions.
So, that's my two cents on that. And again, I'm cautiously optimistic, but nothing is certain. And we
are working continuously to influence the thinking and the decision-making, in particular,
understanding what is it that they want to achieve so that you can provide productive solutions.
On the percentage of utilization of our manufacturing sites, first of all, it is quite good. I wouldn't
want to go to the details, but there is ample room if there is a need to transfer production to
accommodate.
We have huge manufacturing capacity right now in the US, particularly for everything that is
injectable. And the -- our ability, if there is a need is clearly there and without the need to build
new facilities, just utilize the current ones and transfer production there.
With that, let's go to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I have two here, if I may. First is on dividend and second is
a follow-up to something Albert mentioned. Perhaps first on dividend, I know there's obviously
LOEs coming up over the next three -- three to four years with net income and free cash flow
pressures. How much of that pressure could be offset by potential OpEx cuts that you're taking
underway? I guess said differently, can you hold net income at or near the current levels? That's
part one of the question.
And then also, if a tariff impact approaching, I don't know, 15% to 20% of bottom-line kicks in, can
you still confirm your commitment to dividend? And finally, Albert, you mentioned the distinction
between friendly versus unfriendly countries. But in the initial tariff announcement, that didn't
necessarily seem to hold true. So how should that apply in the case of pharma? Thank you very
much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you. Dave, why don't you take the dividend question?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So Umer, clearly in my prepared remarks and what we said very consistently is our objective
is to improve our operating margin performance over time. And we've said that knowing quite
well that we have LOEs approaching. Some of the improvements in productivity that we are
making are in designed to improve our -- to improve operating margin in the face of those LOEs.
At the same time, our business is actually evolving such that particularly in the oncology space
where we're leaning into that business and those products actually yield a very high gross margin
and operating margin performance. So, the short answer is, yes, we can -- we can withstand that.
And secondly, we're very focused on improving our operating margin over time in face of those
LOEs. Clearly, you've also heard us reiterate very specifically our focus is on maintaining and
growing our dividend over time, and we would continue to do that. And we work hard to
understand the environment looking-forward, and I don't want to hypothesize on what could
happen, but clearly, we're watching the situation closely and our commitment to dividend is
steadfast.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And I think, David, you made also very clear quantitative calculations of what we expect, and
when we put a number out there, we know that we can hit it. And David spoke about $7 billion by
year 2027, while maintaining the R&D at the current levels of investment, which I think it is a key
strategy to offset, first of all, to navigate an uncertain environment, that's the best way to do it is
to be productive.
Another comment I want to make on that, it is that the cuts are not across the board, or they are
not by just reducing resources that are valuable. They are very strategic, and they are happening,
first of all, with the deployment of technology. AI right now has dramatic impact in the ways that
we have able to secure cost reductions and digital technology in general, but also through
significant business simplification that we are implementing, and we looked at every single thing
of how we do things. And when you find simpler things of doing it, there is a significant cost
element associated. So, all-in all I think as Dave said, we have our targets and we are very
confident you can calculate that we made them public, and we are very confident that we will
achieve them by the year 2027.
Now, as regards the tariffs, that would be on friendly or non-friendly countries. Look, it's up to the
government to decide what they want to do, but it's very, very clear in my discussions, but the
national security concerns is very clear to my discussions at least, national security concerns are
pretty much associated not with friendly countries.
Okay. Thank you. Next question, please?
Operator
We'll go next to `Chris Schott, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan.
.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Hi, great. Thanks so much. Just my first question on guidance. Pfizer's gross margins for this year,
should we still think about full year gross margins in the mid 70s range or has that changed at allfollowing some of the upside with 1Q? And maybe just on a second part of that, I'm just
interested in the level of conservatism that's baked into the guidance here. It seems like the year
is off to a very strong start, particularly on the cost side. And just as we think about the
progression in the rest of the year, should we think about any offsets from the upside we saw this
quarter? Thank you.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Thanks, Chris. Dave here. Clearly, we're very confident in our outlook for 2025. As you
noted, we entered -- we finished Q1 in a position of strength, both from a topline and a bottom
line perspective. As I look at our operating plan, we've exceeded both topline and bottom line in
Q1 based on our expectations internally. So, we're off to a very solid start.
Secondly, as I look forward, where in Q1, we have a three-quarters left to go, I look at us
maintaining our guidance range by giving you some color that are top of it, we're essentially de-
risking the balance of the year from a financial delivery perspective. We're still faced with some
uncertainty from a macro-environment perspective. So we're watching that cautiously. At the
same time, we're prepared to go into the vaccination season in a position of strength, but really
with still some uncertainty around how the macro-environment might play out in that space as
well.
So I hope that helps, I think from a gross margin perspective, off to a nice start. We haven't
changed our guidance and our color on that, but we're continuing to focus on improving our
gross margin over time and improving our operating margin over time, which I think is even a
more critical component for us. And if you look in Q1, we posted a little over 40% from an
operating margin perspective, which is really solid performance.
So again, off to a really solid start.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So you don't have any conservatives in your guidance?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
He is the best. Let's move to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Citi with Citi.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Citi `
Hey, guys. Good morning. Thanks for the question. Had two quick ones. Albert or Andrew, just
from a strategy perspective, what would you say ranks as a higher priority just with respect to
how you tier with the multiple BD options? Is it the TAM, is it sales through LOE, is it peak sales
after? Wasn't sure how much that's evolved in the current macro backdrop.
And then I guess a question for Albert, what incentives would you want to see in tariff
negotiations that would maybe tip the balance for Pfizer to increase manufacturing investmentsA - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. On the strategy, maybe I'll make some comments and then I ask also Andrew. It is very clear
that we are facing -- everybody knows LOEs. Those LOEs are starting in '26, '27, '28 - '26 is a
smaller number, '27 is a bigger number, '28 is the biggest number, and then goes down. LOEs
are one-time events, right? So to prepare for that, we had significant number of new launches
that they are growing, and we did significant business development, but it is growing because
they were all early assets what we bought, so there were, let's say, having in front of them the
growth period. So, what we project, it is that those growing assets will offset the LOEs in '26, '27,
'28 more or less. So -- and then following that, because of course, LOEs are one-time event, they
continue growing and then we have a significant step-up in the growth when the last LOE is going
out.
Now, what is our strategy in addition to having business development and new product launches?
As we know that with the LOEs, we are not going to be a strong topline growth story for the next
three years, given the LOEs. We expect to become EPS growth story, and this is why you see
here right now the very acute focus on our improvement of margins. Also, we expect even more
importantly, that will be a pipeline story during the next three years. We are very focused on the
R&D productivity.
We are -- we have learned from past mistakes in the R&D productivity. We are moving with a very
decisive steps to bring new Phase 3 studies. And I think once the studies start, also people will
start modeling in their models or upgrading their probabilities of success as we are moving to
Phase 3 studies to reflect what I just told you that as the pipeline matures, the growth post '28
should look among the top-tier of the industry. So, that's more or less the strategy.
Now, within that, we have $10 billion to $15 billion of capital to allocate, but we are very prudent in
how to do it and Andrew will speak about it. But in bottom-line, it is that we would like to see in
the first three years a multiple expansion given the maturation of our pipeline, and of course, an
EPS growth given our strong focus on the costs.
And Andrew and the BD will be a bonus to all of that. What do you think?
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
So, just on -- I think Albert gave you a very, very clear answer. In answer, just picking up on the
explicit question that you asked, I think it's all of the above. TAM, LOE as well as obviously as
value. I think the other thing I would also add that perhaps you didn't mention is I'm very keen that
we build sustainable franchises. And I'm thinking more of the longer term and the shorter term,
but we need to have breadth and durability, just as we've done internally with expanding and
building on our Ibrance franchise with our novel CDK4s, CDK2s, and we have other assets as well
within breast cancer and (inaudible). BD is another tool with an arsenal to build-on the internal
discovery and development that we have with our existing pipeline.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. On the tariff negotiations that you said, what would you expect to see so that you will invest
in the US? I think it's certain. If I know that there will not be tariffs and the heavy certainty, then
there are tremendous investments that can happen in this country, both in R&D and
manufacturing. And the reason is that the tax environment that has forced a lot of manufacturing
outside the US has significantly changed now. We have a global, a minimum tax around 15% that
has been established right now. So it's not as good in the US, although when President Trump did- I'm sure and I know because I talk to him that he would like to see even a reduction in the
current tax regime particularly for locally produced goods. So that would be a huge incentive to
also bring manufacturing here. And it's not that bad, but that requires a lot of capital. And when in
periods of uncertainty, everybody is controlling their cost as we are doing and then is very frugal
with their investments as we are doing so that we are prepared for any day. So that's what I want
to see. Thank you very much. Next question please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS with UBS.
Q - `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS `
Great. Hi guys. Thanks for the question. Just another one on costs and guidance and one on BD.
So on your cost realignment program, you announced an additional $1.2 billion saving by '27. How
much of that can come out in '25? And how should we think about the step-up of costs for the
rest of the year following what seems to be you guys exceeding savings targets, but also
reiterating a guide? And then on BD, you've mentioned external opportunities. How much is that
macro environment impacting your decision in the timing of BD given the volatility and unknowns?
And then on the other side of the table, do you think sellers are hesitating given valuations are
meaningfully lower than the start of the year? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Dave, why don't you take the guidance and then Andrew, you can speak to the BD a
little bit and I will also comment.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. On the costs side, keep in mind that we're focused on taking $4.5 billion out by the end of
this year, well on track with that. The additional $1.2 billion that we've identified, probably modest
delivery of that in 2025, most of that in '26 and '27, but maybe a little bit. I think from a R&D
perspective, the $500 million that we're saving in improving productivity and R&D, largely that will
happen this year, to be reinvested in R&D late this year or maybe even bleed into next year to
some degree.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And on BD, Andrew, valuations are low, uncertainty though is high. So how do you see
things?
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah. I mean, I think as you might imagine, we're very awake to the external environment, but
we're comfortable with the $10 billion to $15 billion budget that Dave effectively forecasted or
gave at the beginning of this year. In terms of the question of have sellers adjusted to the new
valuation the market is applying, I think it depends. I think generally, it takes some time in some
categories where there is increasing therapeutic density because there's an ever-expanding
array of assets, mainly coming from China. I think there's an additional force, which is causing
companies to become more meanable to lower valuations, but I think it really depends.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `And Trung, what I tell my team constantly is never let a good crisis go to waste. And with crisis,
there are risks, but also there are tremendous opportunities because things are changing, they
started slowly changing. So you need to be strategic, you need to be smart, you need to be
disciplined, but you need, as Warren Buffett said, sell when prices are high and buy when prices
are low and prices are low. Next question please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg with Berenberg.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thank you. A couple of questions from me, please. Firstly, in the context of US tariffs and the
debate there, I wonder if you might tell us what proportion of your US drug sales are currently
made end-to-end in the US. Can you give some examples of brands that delivered end-to-end in
the US today? And then a question for Dave here on COGS. Can you just quantify the US dollar
impact of that revision of estimated accrued royalties in Q1? Can you tell us what that specifically
relates to? And just to confirm that's intended to be a one-off adjustment. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Kerry. Look, around which percentage of production we have here et cetera, we are
not disclosing this information. So we won't go into those details. When it comes to the impact of
the US dollar, I will ask Dave to comment. And Dave, also you speak about the impact of IRA so
that people can get a good picture of the puts and takes of the first quarter sales.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah, sure. So maybe let's take this in points here. First, I know there's been a lot of volatility in FX
and currency fluctuations. If you -- we're probably an outlier in the sense that we gave guidance in
December. So if you look point to point from December to now, FX is largely immaterial to us
given the fact there's been a lot -- there's been a roller coaster ride to get from point A to point
B, but right now, FX is largely in -- not an impact to Q1 and for the balance of the year.
Secondly, if you look at Medicare Part D redesign, in Q1, it dampened our US revenues by
approximately $650 million as we expected. That dampening will lessen in the back half of the
year as we continue to offset that a bit with incremental prescriptions. Third, included in our
guidance that we didn't really speak about is there are some tariffs in place today. We anticipate
those tariffs to be approximately $150 million for 2025. We are contemplating that within our
guidance range and we continue to, again, trend to the top end of our guidance range even with
those costs to be incurred this year.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Akash Tewari, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hey, thanks so much. I realize there's a lot of uncertainty on tariffs, but hearing Merck give color
on Q1, it seems like some of your peers are hinting the bottom line impact of tariffs could bemanageable. So let's say the tariffs are broadly 25% on your transfer price, which I'm sure is a
scenario your team has planned for, would it be fair to say that the bottom line earnings impact
would be a single digit percent basis with reasonable mitigation steps? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Akash. I will never go to that statement and we have made statements in the past that
we have been burned. So I'm very cautious and careful about that. If there are tariffs, we have
detailed contingency plans that are minimizing the impact, but I'm right now focusing more on the
fact that we should not have tariffs. And only if we have, we should try to implement measures.
I'm sure all companies are doing the same. Sorry I can't be more specific. I know your interest on
that. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. Maybe two from me. Another one on tariffs. I know Scott
Gottlieb who is on your Board referenced to Grand Bargain on the news a couple of weeks ago,
and you've given a lot of color here, Albert, in terms of your discussions with the administration.
So can you confirm if something along those lines is in the works? And the second question is on
the pipeline that you guys and your partner Arvinas recently reported some Phase 3 data for
vepdeg from the VERITAC-2 study. Just wondering how that data change or impact your strategy
for this drug in the frontline setting. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I'm not aware of Scott's comments on the Grand Bargain. Of
course, I follow on him all the way, but also more importantly, I speak with him very, very regularly,
very, very often and he advised me on several topics. But I don't know his comments on Grand
Bargain. And clearly, right now there are two things in the horizon. One, it is an executive -- one, it
is a 232 process on tariffs or pharmaceuticals that have been excluded from overall tariffs,
geographical reciprocal tariffs and that's on national security. There is also an executive order of
the President that is focusing on 340B, reducing the cost of patients, PBM reform, removing the
pill penalty. Those are the things that we are engaged in right now, not in any other type of
bargain.
And then on Arvinas, I will ask Chris to comment on that.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
And thank you for the question. As you know, the Phase 3 top line results, VERITAC-2 was
reported in March and the last two months. And we met the primary endpoint in the estrogen
receptor 1 mutant population, which was statistically significant and clinically meaningful for
progression-free survival. Overall survival still too early, very immature and -- but we did not reach
statistical significance and improvement in PFS and intent-to-treat overall population. And we plan
to present detailed results at ASCO. It's a late-breaking oral presentation and we'll also start
sharing the data with global regulatory authorities to potentially support regulatory filings.
We are continuing the combinations with CDK4 atirmociclib, which we're excited about as well as
with KAT6.A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
On this project.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
On this project with vepdegestrant, the combinations with vepdegestrant and shall then work
with Arvinas to not just only file, but work with Arvinas to discuss future plans for the Phase 3
program.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Chris. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `David Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners with Leerink.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Thanks very much and thank you for all the updates. So I have two questions, Albert. First, current
Washington leadership is very supportive of the traditional technology sector, but it's taking the
opposite approach towards biotechnology, so notwithstanding a few of the things that you
mentioned that, that might be marginally positive such as the pill penalty. Washington is actively
degrading proven medical science, collapsing the NIH and driving reduced investments in the
biotechnology sector in the United States. Could you please comment on that and how you and
other biopharma companies are responding when you engage with Washington?
And then separately, with respect to the 232 investigation, since we can't see what's going on
outside, could you just explain exactly how that investigation is progressing, how Pfizer is
engaging on the 232 investigation front and what we should watch and when should we see
news on 232? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you. Look, we are clearly concerned about several of the statements that we have
seen and approaches regarding FDA and some statements that they are not in correlation with
what science has proven over the decades and what the vast majority of the scientific community.
When I say vast, I'm talking 99.9% are behind it and sometimes they use this 0.1% as a point to
challenge the remaining. So I think there is scientific truth and that scientific truth, it is well
presented and this is not only a US thing. It's not only the CBC and the FDA and the NIH, but it is
the UK, UK health authorities and it is the French health authorities, it is the Spanish health
authorities and it is the Korean health authorities and the Japanese and Israeli and that can go on
and on. So this thing [ph] of a conspiracy theory, but you know someone -- it's not that the whole
world and the whole authorities of the world want to implement wrong science. So I am very
convinced that we are in the right side of history and those people are in their own.
But I want to tell you that the -- those views are not expressed by the entire administration and
there are many people that they don't share those views. And I would say that we had also
pressed them that he spearheaded the Warp Speed Operation and he created this miracle that
was saved -- I mean, there was no other country that had done something like that in the world.
And the entire world was able to save their economies and survive based on what Operation
Warp Speed did that the President and the members of his cabinet at that time on CEF and(inaudible) and all of them, they worked with us to do. Actually, I told him that he should have
received the Nobel Prize for that and that was unfair, but he didn't. It was serious contribution.
But the thing that I discuss with everyone in the administration and I think that resonates a lot with
Democrats and with Republicans, with everybody in the administration, including HHS and
everywhere, it is that Chinese right now are progressing with the speed of light in their science.
Biotech, it is dominant -- the US has the dominant scientific position in biotech because we have
created this ecosystem of biotech and pharma and academia and all of that.
This is exactly what the Chinese have replicated in the last four years. And in the last four years,
IRA was a significant setback for us that took down a lot of funding for the private -- of the private
sector towards biotech. So the biotechs now currently -- also because of tariffs, but also because
of the four previous years, they are at historical low, and as a result, there is very little money
going to the biotech.
The Chinese doing the opposite. And right now, they are having very, very good science. And I
think that's something that they should, everybody, be concerned and they should be concerned
not only from commercial, but also from national security point of view. Imagine if in the next
pandemic, the medicines that will help will not be invented in this country, but in another country.
That will be a problem.
Now, the 232 investigation, it is an investigation, but it basically is launching and then the Secretary
of Commerce is running it and is gathering information to see if there is any national security risk
with the way that the medicines are available in the US, the supply chain of the medicines. And
the process has been launched, they have requested information publicly and companies will
submit information, the pharma association will submit information. Everybody who has an
interest on that will submit information and probably proposals. And those things will be
assembled. And although the time -- this process is time-limited, which I think is 270 days, I don't
recall well, but it is -- I think they need to complete it with 270 days, knowing how fast this
administration works, I think they will do the work faster. So let's go to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. And Albert, one more for you. So
pharmaceutical manufacturing is a little bit more complex. There are layers of like API,
manufacturing of the drug -- of drug substance as well as fill-finish. And to my understanding, the
fill-finish, majority of part is already in the US, but would love to understand from your
conversations, is there a specific focus of the administration to bring the API part of it or the drug
substance manufacturing part of it to the US and how feasible it is to bring API or move it to some
friendly countries, if not America? Would love to get your perspective on that. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think for things that they are considered national security, they are looking the entire value
chain. So they want to see the precursors, the APIs and where the products are made, and they
are making very clear distinction, I think, on where those products are made so that they can
assess the risk. Transferring manufacturing even under the most lucrative investments available
and even under the most favorable regulatory framework to provide approvals et cetera, it's a
multi, multi-year process. So it's not something that can be resolved within a year. So I believethey will focus on a manageable number of products, which are the most important so that they
can have that built and secure the national security. But I think their questions right now is on
everything; on APIs, on precursors, on where the products are made, et cetera. Next question,
please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein with Bernstein.
Q - `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein `
Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking the time for our question today. A couple that we had. One
clarification on tariffs, and apologies if we missed it, but this was just kind of if you can provide any
comments on inventory and kind of work that you're doing already to bring inventory into the US.
And then the second question is just on the pipeline. I know kind of you've given us some details
about the things that you're looking to prioritize, but can we expect an R&D Day through -- at
some point this year that will help us better understand the overall pipeline strategy and help us
understand that reallocation and perhaps even better assess and evaluate that pipeline in our
sell-side models? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Courtney. I will ask Chris to comment on the pipeline, but on the tariffs, as David also
said, I think, in the beginning, you can imagine, we have done everything that we have to do to
make sure that we mitigate. So that includes inventories, of course, and many other things that
we have built into the country so that we can weather any scenario that is needed and every
month also, we're increasing those positions, so to make sure that, as I said, in rainy days, we are
well positioned. Chris, on pipeline.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
And -- so thank you for the question. Just to remind that we've got a number of products that
we're currently excited about that will read out later this year, for instance, Padcev, muscle
invasive, triple -- if that's positive, it will triple the population; Elrexfio, Albert mentioned double-
class exposed will double the population. Sasanlimab, obviously readout just now, potentially up
to 38,000 patients eligible in the US and in a number of Phase 3 programs, we are accelerating
or that already started or start later this year from the next six to nine months, including for
oncology, the two ADCs Albert mentioned, Sigvotatug vedotin, PDL1V, atirmociclib continuing
Phase 1 -- I'm sorry, Phase 3 in first-line ER-positive breast cancer and vaccines PCV fourth
generation, but also potentially starting first and only to market opportunity with the C. difficile
vaccine and for internal medicine ponsegromab, which again discovered in-house potential
brand-new opportunity. This is opening a new field, and -- in cancer cachexia. In terms of an R&D
date, we're not planning it, but as you know, we currently have the flashes, which is organized by
our IR team. The next one coming up will be on breast cancer and we will continue to add these
flash and events.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And in general, our -- our intention is to provide as much visibility on our data as possible without
undermining publications, of course. So I think the flashes are making very good job right now,
and we can intensify also how we do that so that we have smaller bytes of information and that
are referring to a specific product and after a month, another product and after a month another
product rather than sour everyone with a lot of data and information in one day. But we will findthe best way and we are listening right now. We are listening all the analysts that they are giving
us ideas on that. We are listening to all our investors that they are giving us ideas on how best to
communicate our pipeline.
Let's go now to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Asad Haider, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Asad Haider, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thanks. Thanks for taking the questions, and thanks for all the color on the macro and tariff side.
I'll ask a couple of product-specific questions. First on Vyndaqel, can you just double-click on how
competitive dynamics are playing out in that market relative to your own expectations? Second,
on the internal oral GIPR agonist, can you remind us of the timelines on when we'll start to see
more data? And then third, on these nine Phase 3 readouts that you're highlighting other than
Elrexfio, which you've highlighted in the past, where do you see the biggest disconnect in analyst
models relative to your own internal expectations? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir, you talk about Vyndaqel. Chris, maybe you explain on GIPR. And Andrew, if you can speak
about where the biggest differences are.
Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Okay. Thanks for the question. On Vyndaqel in the US, I think we are off to a very good start in the
new year. We've grown revenue at 31%, and that is a combination of multiple things, including the
fact that diagnosis rates are improving. We've improved access, and therefore have had strong
new patient starts, certainly versus last year more than 70%, and versus Q4, almost 20% new
patient start growth and continued compliance with our existing base of patients.
And all of that has driven very, very strong volume growth year-over-year and sequentially. And
we are managing that revenue growth despite the offset of the impact of IRA Part-D redesign
that Dave spoke to. Now we're obviously seeing impact of competition, principally (inaudible) and
principally on newly-diagnosed patients. We'll continue to stay close and monitor that, and how
that evolves and how Amvuttra settles into the market as well. But the year is off to a good start.
Our team is executing well and we have confidence we will grow for the balance of the year.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Alexandre, can you comment also on Vyndaqel in the international markets that is
growing very healthy all over?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah, absolutely. So we had also a good growth of 36% this quarter above expectations from the
analyst. What's driving that is essentially a significant increase in our treated population. We have
actually reached a 52% growth in patients treated from in Q1 versus Q1 last year. So, very healthy
trends. And we see that this trend will continue for essentially three reasons. One, because our
diagnosis rate has potential to expand in pretty much all our key markets outside of the US; two,because our profile, our clinical profile is differentiated and will support our standard of care
status, we believe in our key market. And three, which is often underestimated, we after three
years of hard work have finally reached access reimbursement in 46 markets.
And we just received actually reimbursement in Korea in March of 2025. So that will kind of flow
into our business and will continue to sustain a significant growth within there.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alexandre. Chris, GIPR?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
And oral small molecule GIPR antagonist was discovered in-house. It's potentially first-in-class oral
small-molecule GIPR antagonist. And the piece -- Phase 2 study is now ongoing. This is a study in
obesity in combination with liraglutide with the GLP1. The PCD is listed on clinicaltrials.gov at the
end of 2025, so expect beginning 2026 potential data. If the data positive in the Phase 2 study,
then it could be a potential to be used in combinations to drive weight loss, both with internal or
external opportunities.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Chris. And then Andrew, this connect between our projections that you
came to interrogate very carefully and your colleagues in your previous life.
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
All right. Well, thank you for the opportunity, Albert. And so I'd start with the two ADCs which are
now in Phase 3 first-line trials for non-small cell and in head neck, so SV and PD-L1V. Now part of
the reason I think that The Street may have -- these may have flown under the radar is they move
very, very quickly on the back of very strong Phase 1 data straight into Phase 3. And so, I think
some focus on that will be useful. We obviously have the benefit of having seen access to more
data than you have, but we look forward to sharing that with you in the near future and hopefully,
that would align your expectations closer to ours internally.
Chris already mentioned CDIF which will begin our Phase 3 end of this year, beginning of next
year, a very significant unmet medical need. And then -- and this is not by any means a
comprehensive list, but the two other ones I would mention is the CDK4, which I name check
previously, which builds on our legacy with Ibrance. It's the first-in-class. It promises much better
tolerability and efficacy. Again, it's in our frontline head-to-head trial versus the current standard
of care and that is a $15 billion-plus market. So, very sizable and an area that we have a lot of
expertise in.
And then the final one is ponsegromab which I've addressed before. Look, we need to see how
the data pans out. If it translates into a meaningful progression-free survival benefit or even a
survival benefit, then obviously it's a home-run in terms of the value to both patients, but in
addition, the revenue potential, alternatively supportive care therapy and that's still a significant
product, albeit of a different price point in a different order of magnitude. But nonetheless, there
is a very substantial delta when we look further out between what I can see or we can see, and
how The Street is modeling some of those forecasts. So we look forward to hopefully narrowing
the gap in the months ahead.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Andrew. That was the last question. And just a couple of comments. We had a very
solid performance in the first quarter. Keep in mind that already $650 million negative in the US
have been already absorbed in the results of the first quarter because of IRA, and that's from a
total of $1 billion net, $1.5 billion gross for the year, but so, it's a very strong start. I think in the
strategic priorities, we continue to guide us in acting on our greatest opportunity. The discipline
will continue. I think the team that we have running right now the company, probably the best I
have ever seen in Pfizer, and Pfizer had traditionally very, very strong teams. So I'm cautiously
optimistic that we will turn this around, and we will translate the very good operational
performance of the last five quarters at least into also meaningful shareholder value. Thank you
very much, and till the next earnings call.
Operator
This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at any
time.