Q2 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome and thank you for joining the SAP Q2
and Half Year 2025 Financial Results Conference Call. Throughout today's recorded presentation,
all participants will be in a listen-only mode. The presentation will be followed by a question-and-
answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
`Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Good evening, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us. With me today are CEO,
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; and CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer. On this call, we will discuss SAP's second quarter 2025
results. You can find the deck supplementing this call, as well as our quarterly statement, on our
Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to differ materially. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may
be found in our filings with the SEC, including but not limited to the Risk Factors section of our
Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2024.
Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS, and growth rates and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS year-on-year at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures
we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And with that, over to you, Christian.`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alexandra, and a warm welcome to everyone on the line. Q2 was another very good
quarter, with our Sapphire conference as the main highlight. Let me start with two key messages.
First, we are looking at a very solid set of Q2 numbers today. SAP was performing very well
across all key financial indicators. Second, uncertainty in global markets from earlier this year
remains, but SAP has an excellent pipeline for half-year two in almost all markets and regions. In a
few individual industries impacted by uncertainty, we are seeing extended approval workflows on
the customer side, for example, in the US public sector and among manufacturers affected by
tariffs. Whatever the market environment may bring, SAP is really well prepared. We are taking
big steps in product innovation and rapidly increasing our productivity with Business AI.
Before I go deeper into these topics, let's have a look at the Q2 numbers and customer
highlights. In Q2, Cloud revenue rose 28%, marking an increase of 2 percentage points compared
with Q1. The Cloud ERP Suite once again drove this momentum. For 14 quarters in a row, it has
been consistently expanding at a rate of over 30%. Total revenue growth also continued to
accelerate and reached 12%. Our current Cloud backlog grew by 28% in Q2. Despite the currency
headwind, it came in at EUR18 billion.
Finally, our Q2 bottom line is a real highlight. Operating profit surged 35%. This is a testament to
the strength of SAP's business module and the lasting improvements we achieved in our cost
base with our transformation program, which includes the internal adoption of Business AI. The
customer stories from Q2 add some nice color to the picture. They reflect the whole spectrum of
what SAP has to offer, from Cloud ERP for our installed base and net new customers, to leading
data and LoB solutions, to our sovereignty cloud offering and much more.
Let's start with our installed base and device journey. In Q2, Alibaba entered into a strategic
partnership with SAP, with a focus on two key areas. First, we will roll out the SAP Business Suite at
Alibaba end-to-end, including BTP, Business AI, Ariba, Integrated Business Planning,
SuccessFactors, and Emarsys. Second, Alibaba, even more important, will become a partner for
our RISE and GROW journeys. Together, we will be addressing the huge market potential in China
both among installed base and net new customers.
Other key wins in Q2 were the pharma company GSK and the fashion brands Balmain and Replay.
A number of new customers also joined us via the GROW journey. Our wide range of net new
customers included the American furniture company, Gardner White, and the fitness device
maker, EGYM. Beyond Cloud ERP, many net new customers are also embracing solutions from the
Business Suite. The US construction company, NEBCO, and a live marketing company MCH, for
example, signed up for HR and Finance.
In our solution areas and LoBs, business was humming too. For example, nearly 300 cloud
customers selected our digital supply chain solutions only in Q2, for example, the airline, Delta.
Nearly 100 customers selected our customer engagement platform, for example, BMW, who also
went live on digital supply chain this quarter. And over 300 customers signed up for our Human
Capital Management solutions. The German Federal Pension Insurance opted for SuccessFactors
in Q2, and the global cosmetics leader, L'Oreal, expanded their SuccessFactors footprint as well.
Finally, the German Armed Forces signed up for SAP Project and Resource Management,
Business AI, Analytics Cloud, LeanIX, and Signavio.
Let's now have a quick look at our Software and Cloud offering. In Q2, the German defense
company, HENSOLDT, and the British defense and security leader, BAE Systems, were among the
customers that embraced SAP's excellent Software and Cloud offering. The debate on digitalsovereignty and the best way to achieve it has picked up speed in recent weeks. SAP stands out
as the only vendor that can offer sovereignty over the entire stack, from the infrastructure to the
application. We also offer customers additional features on top, for example, EU Access, Bring
Your Own Key, and Air Gap. Our platform runs on any hyperscaler and many local providers, but
we also operate data centers of our own across the world. Our unique capabilities ensure that
customers stay in control of their data at all times. They can be sure, regardless of how their local
sovereignty requirements evolve, we will be able to meet them.
Let me now conclude the customer stories with a very exciting topic: the SAP Business Data
Cloud. Many of the Q2 deals I have mentioned so far included BDC as a key component,
including GSK, Replay, BAE Systems, and NEBCO. The software company, Adobe, selected our
new data offering too, and we are deepening our partnership with Palantir in the context of BDC.
All taken together, this makes for a great start. Only a few months after we launched, the pipeline
for Business Data Cloud is skyrocketing. For all our customers in all geographies, we have one
goal. We want to help them to take full advantage of the SAP Business Suite for their company.
And with each innovation we add, the Business Suite becomes even more attractive. In Q2, well
over half of our Cloud order entry volume came from deals that included AI use cases. And every
hour, every day, more customers go live. ABB, for example, is using SAP Business AI to bring
down the time to create price growth for larger products, from 15 days and more, to only one
day. Siemens is using Joule for Consultants to speed up the transition to S/4HANA Cloud. And the
Australian utility company, SA Power Network, leverages SAP Business AI to maintain its vast
network of electricity poles in a targeted, efficient manner, for example, with predictive
maintenance techniques.
With the next generation of innovation now arriving with customers, we expect Business AI
adoption to further speed up. In half-year one, we released our first 14 AI agents, for example, an
agent for the Commerce Cloud. Instructed via natural language, the agent helps online shop
customers to find exactly the items they look for. No more clicking through pages of product
pictures. The result is higher customer satisfaction and better sales conversion. Other agents
released so far help customers to create quotes, streamline customer service, resolve dispute
cases, analyze open receivables, and validate expense reports. By the end of the year, we
expect the total number of available AI agents to reach 40. The agents will work across business
functions, addressing all buying centers. In finance, for instance, our agents will streamline
financial planning, ensure that accruals are automatically calculated, and proactively identify cash
shortages. And in supply chain management, upcoming agents will keep production moving, for
example, by recommending and onboarding suppliers and proactively responding to shop floor
disruptions.
As for Joule, our Sapphire announcements are starting to become available to customers. Joule
will be available everywhere across SAP and non-SAP systems starting in Q3, thanks to the
integration with WalkMe. And it will also be giving answers to everything starting in Q4, powered
by our partnership with Perplexity.
With regard to data products or the Business Data Cloud, we are making very good progress as
well. As of today, we have released more than 100 pre-built SAP-managed data products
covering finance, sales, manufacturing, and logistics. And by the end of the year, we will more
than double that, covering our entire Business Suite. These data products underpin our intelligent
applications for core ERP spend, finance, people, customer, and supply chain that bring together
data, business simulations, and AI capabilities. Every day, we are expanding our innovation
footprint in the data and Business AI space.Now, coming to our own transformation. Of course, SAP also uses Business AI internally to boost
productivity. This is reflected in the solid expansion of our operating profit. We are decoupling
expense growth from revenue growth, thanks to our transformation program. Three examples
for internal AI use cases, our digital sales engagement platform powered by Joule, increases
productivity by up to 50% for selected sales roles. Thanks to Joule for SuccessFactors, HR tickets
are now resolved in up to 20% less time. And with Joule for developers, coders at SAP are
becoming up to 30% more efficient. This is the beginning. It is already clear that AI will further
increase productivity at SAP and in many other companies, and it will further change shops and
shop profiles. This is why it is so important to keep evolving and transforming our workforce in a
continuous process. As before, this transformation includes a reskilling component, reductions in
areas with lower resource demand, and hiring in shop profiles that define the future of our
Company, such as Data and Business AI.
To summarize, we achieved an outstanding Q2 despite market uncertainty. Since it is difficult to
predict how this market environment will exactly evolve, we continue to focus on what makes us
successful in the mid and the long term. With our data and AI innovations, we are strengthening
our portfolio, and there's more to come. Our AI-enabled go-to-market transformation is moving
ahead with speed, and we remain very diligent about simplification. The AI-powered
transformation of our workforce continues. Thanks to ongoing operating efficiencies, we are able
to do more with a leaner headcount. All this means that SAP is very well prepared for the second
half of 2025 and for the coming year.
And with that, I'm handing over to you, Dominik.
`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Christian, and thank you all for joining us this evening. As you can see from
some of the financial results Christian just shared, SAP delivered another great quarter,
highlighted by accelerating total revenue growth and continued strength in both operating profit
and free cash flow. This further reinforces the strength and consistency of the execution of our
strategy. The ongoing momentum of Cloud ERP Suite and the impact of our strict cost discipline
were again key contributors to this performance. Together, they reflect the resilience of our
business model and our ability to deliver consistent results in a dynamic and uncertain
environment. Our strategy is working, and our offerings remain mission-critical to customers as
they pursue their transformation towards cloud-based business models.
Now, let me provide more details around our financial highlights. Current cloud backlog reached
EUR18.1 billion, up 28%. Cloud revenue increased also by 28% year-on-year. This was again driven
by the strong performance of the Cloud ERP Suite, which continued to deliver 34% growth in Q2.
This represents 86% of total cloud revenue, underscoring its role as a foundational part of our
cloud business. As we look towards half-year two, we are mindful of the broader environment,
including geopolitical developments, notably, the ongoing uncertainty about trade policy that has
contributed to elongated sales cycles in certain sectors such as US public sector and industrial
manufacturing.
The sequential 1 percentage point deceleration in current cloud backlog growth is underscoring
the dampening effect on bookings in Q2. It is obviously hard, if not impossible, to predict when
exactly we'll catch up on the pushouts. Closing these open opportunities will be a focus in half-
year two, where we, as you will recall, usually close roughly 2/3 of our annual new cloud business.
Unfortunately, we have no crystal ball to reliably predict global trade policy decision-making, and it
goes without saying that the longer this uncertainty persists, the more pressure it is likely to put
on global trade and our customers' ability to make well-informed decisions. So, while capitalmarkets appear to be optimistic and continue to perform at or near all-time highs, we do prepare
SAP for less favorable outcomes by focusing on elements within our control to protect our
bottom line and safeguarding free cash flow in 2025. These priorities will ensure SAP remains
resilient and well-positioned regardless of how external conditions evolve.
Software licenses revenue decreased by 13% in Q2, in line with the strategy we pursued. The
pace of contraction remained relatively stable as customers increasingly advanced their
transformation journeys with RISE and GROW with SAP towards the cloud. Finally, total revenue
came in at EUR9 billion, up 12% driven by broad-based strength, particularly within our share of
more predictable revenue, which increased to 86%.
Now, let's take a brief look at our regional performance. In Q2, SAP's cloud revenue performance
was particularly strong in the APJ and EMEA region, and solid in the Americas. Brazil, Chile, France,
India, Italy, South Korea, and Spain had outstanding performance.
Now, moving down the income statement. Our non-IFRS cloud gross margin for the quarter
continued its upward trend, expanding by 1.8 percentage points to 75.2%, driving cloud gross
profit up by 31%. IFRS operating profit increased to EUR2.5 million in the quarter, positively
impacted by a restructuring expense decline of EUR0.6 billion as compared to the prior year in
connection with the 2024 transformation program. In the second quarter, non-IFRS operating
profit was up 35% to EUR2.6 billion. Both IFRS and non-IFRS operating profit growth strongly
benefited from cloud revenue growth at expanding cloud gross margin and a significant
reduction in share-based compensation expenses.
In fact, we have been able to reduce share-based compensation expenses by EUR331 million or
26% in the first six months of 2025, as compared to the same period last year, by allocating
grants in a more targeted fashion and largely hedging the residual cash-settled part of it through
April of this year. Recall that in the last year, we had a significant headwind from share-based
compensation expenses as the last major cash-settled tranches were mark-to-market while our
share price increased by roughly 50% in half year one of 2024.
The IFRS effective tax rate in Q2 was 30.1% and the non-IFRS tax rate was 30.8%. Operating cash
flow in the second quarter was up by 71% to EUR2.6 billion, and free cash flow increased by 83%
to EUR2.4 billion. The increase was mainly attributable to the higher profitability and the positive
development of working capital, lower payouts for share-based compensation, restructuring
payments, and income tax payments. Finally, basic IFRS earnings per share increased to EUR1.45
and non-IFRS earnings per share increased to EUR1.50.
Now, let's move on to the outlook. As you have likely seen in the quarterly statement published
earlier today, we've decided to keep our 2025 outlook unchanged across all metrics. In summary,
Q2 reflects another leap forward for SAP, marked by continued strong momentum in our Cloud
ERP Suite, resulting in accelerated total revenue growth and strong margin expansion. These
results are a clear indication that our priorities are translating into consistent execution and
measurable progress. We remain focused on disciplined execution, cost control, and protecting
our bottom line and free cash flow for the remainder of the year. With the first half complete, we
are focused on sustaining momentum and closing the year with strength amidst a volatile and
uncertain macro environment.
Thank you, and we'll now be happy to take your questions.
`Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `All right. We will now take your questions. As always, I would like to kindly remind you to only ask
one question when prompted. Operator, please open the line.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Good evening, and thanks for taking the question. Congratulations on another good quarter. If I
could just maybe dig in on the operating margin and the EBIT growth for the second half of the
year. Obviously, you've had a phenomenal first half with margins up around 8% and then 5% in Q1
and Q2. If the back of my envelope is right, it looks as if we're looking for more likes of 2%, 2.5%
increases in margins in the second half. Obviously, Christian, you've talked about decoupling
revenues, expenses, and the benefits of consuming your own technology internally. But I imagine
there's some nervousness in terms of how the macro turns out and also some desire to invest
for growth. Could you maybe just talk us through how those things play off against each other?
How much caution is in there in terms of that big step down in margin improvement in the second
half of the year, please? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. I'm happy to have a stab at that. So, first of all, let's not forget that one important
factor of the strong performance in operating profit in the first half of the year was that kind of
EUR331 million improvement in stock-based compensation. You recall that we said we want to
end up the year at about EUR2 billion. We had EUR2.4 billion last year. So, we basically said that
about EUR0.4 billion improvement that will come from stock-based compensation. And the lion's
share of that is kind of hitting H1. The reason being that, as I mentioned in my introductory
remarks, that the headwind we had last year was very kind of first half year-centric. So, we have
kind of easier, much easier comps in the first half than in the second half on that factor.
Secondly, we will continue to fine-tune and adjust our workforce. We mentioned the AI
transformation being in full swing. So, that means that on one hand, there will be hiring, so there
are resources we need to get on board to future-proof the company. On the other hand, after
having now completed this massive restructuring program in the first quarter, we will probably
see, going forward, continuous adjustment, I would call it optimization of a much smaller
magnitude. So, you can think of a kind of 1% to 2% of workforce annual adjustments, and we
cannot rule out that there might be some severance payment for the one or the other position in
certain geographies here. So, that will also be kind of happening. And that will not be an
adjustment to our non-IFRS operating profit, because that will be, I always say, like brushing teeth,
going forward, this will not be something that is very special. By doing that, we want to avoid
actually having to kind of every now and then make a huge restructuring, but rather continuously
adjust as we move along.
So, these are the factors that I want to call out. So, I would say that the full year guidance is solidly
on track, so no reason to get overly excited about that. Obviously, the other question is always
where exactly will we end up on the cloud revenue side? And yes, I think that protects us also for
kind of the lower outcomes in case the trade disputes we alluded to would continue to weigh on
sentiment here.A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, and maybe Adam, just to build on that, we are just in the -- of course, in the planning
process for the upcoming years, for the next two years. And obviously, Dominik and I have given
the team also now the task to say, how can we further decouple the expense growth from the
accelerated total revenue growth we are going to achieve in the next years. And I mean, think
about the cloud cost margin. I mean, we just achieved that by economies of scale and $18 billion
backlog signals there is more to come. But when you think about onboarding customers, patching
customers, when you think about servicing customers, I mean, there is almost like a digital twin to
our operations people who helps to further automate this task by a significant percentage point.
And then, second, I mean, when you are in support solving tickets, ticket routing, ticket solving, I
mean, there is more to come. And what we are seeing with Joule and when we are now building
these agents, I mean, what we expect is actually that AI will be a further productivity driver also in
the years to come for sure. And that is also, I guess, very important for our credibility when we go
to customers to showcase, hey, this is how SAP runs, and this is our transformation, and that is of
course also our major goal when it comes to margin optimization for the years to come. And
obviously then it's our obligation to always look at our workforce and do our job and do some
cynical, very distinct measures on reducing profiles where we don't need the people anymore.
But on the other hand, of course, when it comes to Agentic AI, you wouldn't believe how many
customers are now coming and saying, hey, SAP, I need tool, I don't need custom AI use cases, I
don't even know how to train all of that and how to improve the outcome. And this is where we
need also on the consulting side very dedicated people who can help us to drive the change
management with the customers and to implement all of these agents at the business of our
customers.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research with Bernstein Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Thank you very much, and congratulations on the quarter. I'd like to drill in a little more on the
substantial margin improvement that we saw this quarter. We saw it in cloud gross margin, we
saw it in sales and marketing, and R&D as a percentage of revenue. Can you give us a color,
Dominik, how you think long-term sustainability of those improvements, especially as you invest in
AI, and how much more room you think there is for continuing to drive that margin improvement?
Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. I mean, I can say that now with the more confidence because, as Christian mentioned,
we are now kind of starting to sharpen the pencil for the planning exercise for the coming years.
And I just always come back, and I'm glad to say, that won't change our operating leverage, i.e.,
the increase in total expenses versus the increase in revenues will be contained and in a range of
80% to 90%. And that is the kind of yardstick for coming years.
Now we have been doing much more than that now with the big restructuring we have executed
through Q1 of this year, that was 10,000 jobs being eliminated. As I just stated, while there might
be some continuous fine-tuning at a much smaller degree, which will then also not be kind of will
fully be embarked on non-IFRS operating profit, that will enable us to get there. So, our
confidence level on being able to reach these operating leverage ratios is quite high. And now,really own in, when we communicate the guidance for 2026. But it's the best kind of rough
yardstick I can give you at present for these coming years.
And how it's distributed, I mean, we never go into details because we want to keep the flexibility.
Sometimes we want to kind of push harder on incentives, sometimes we want to give more
marketing incentives. But the pegging order is still that the biggest percent improvement in
operating leverage is in selling expenses. And then there is also still some improvement potential
we believe on the R&D side, and then also some on G&A.
On the gross margin, you've seen a pretty favorable development. We were really pleased with
the massive expansion we've seen in Q2, 1.8%. That's really good news because I mean we talk
about pushing cloud and also giving transformation incentives. That's all embarked in that
number. So, all of that is absorbed, and still we kind of come to the 1.8% gross margin
improvement. Now, that will become a slower -- much slower gradient going forward because the
one-off extra effects that we were benefiting from in the past might not reoccur. But still, that's
also part of kind of grinding up the margin.
Operator
The next question comes from `Jackson Ader, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jackson Ader, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Thanks for taking our questions, guys. Christian, I'd like to spend a couple of minutes on the
Alibaba partnership that you mentioned in your prepared remarks. Just curious, how large is your
Chinese footprint today? And I guess are there any more details or maybe mechanics on the go-
to-market motion, how this partnership is actually going to work with Alibaba, and maybe how
large is that Chinese total addressable market for SAP? Thanks.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I mean, the China market, we have to look at it from two angles. First, you have to see that
90% of the multinationals we are running also outside of China are doing business in China.
Because of the trade conflicts, I mean obviously they are looking for solutions to further drive
productivity in China, for China in their factories, to improve their logistics, to get more supply
chain resiliency. But they need to decouple it to a certain extent to mitigate risk. And there of
course, Alibaba is now key here, because we have now -- also now a Chinese partner with us
where we can really deliver our cloud in China, for China. Then the Chinese customers itself, I
mean, there are many, many tech companies who are very open for moving with us to the cloud.
They need SAP also to globalize their business.
I mean also, a car manufacturer like BYD, they started rather small and now they became very big
on our platform. And so while of course the market is still smaller compared to a US or Germany,
actually the growth what we are seeing is quite considerable. And of course, with such a
partnership, we definitely want to now see how we can join forces on go-to-market. And it's not
only about the large enterprises, it's also about the upper-mid-market, which we want to capture,
and hopefully then also can win together with Alibaba. So, I have huge hopes. And then of course
over the time, let's see with Ali, I mean we see also now customers in Asia, even in EMEA also
asking for our partnership with Ali. So, let's see what we are going to do. But the first focus is now
to make it work in China for China.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `I mean in terms of revenues, we don't disclose China-specific revenues, but it's included, of
course, in what we call Rest of APJ, which I just checked is about 10% of our revenues. And of
course, not all of that is China. So, if you want to pick the middle as a wild guess, you come to
mid-single-digit kind of contribution very roughly so -- and you also see the growth rates for these
regions which are reasonable but we don't have by far cry the same business size as we have in
the United States where we generated 31% of revenues in Q2.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Toby Ogg with J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead. Toby, your line
is now open. We'll move on to our next question from `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Good evening, and my congratulations as well. Dominik, another really good quarter
on cash flow. Contract liability, I think the cash inflow is up about EUR400 million year-on-year. And
I know, at Sapphire, you were talking about the impact of transformation credits. Can you maybe
say whether those are related? And in terms of the unwinding of that transformation credit
balance, what size is it today, and what impact might it have on cash flow next year? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, on the transformation credit, again, just to make sure we're all on the same page,
what this is all about. When we are signing deals in certain situations, we are granting a credit to
the customer, which is basically a cash voucher to offset some of the non-recurring project costs
they have in transforming or adding some of our lines of business, or moving to the public cloud,
as examples. And then what we do is we take that kind of value of the voucher and we amortize
or we spread it over the term of the deal. And then if it's used in early innings, there is, of course,
a certain hedge conversion negative in that early phase, which is then recovered. So, over the life
of the full transaction, basically it's a wash, it's a kind of neutral cash conversion. And we don't
disclose details on how big that is. That would be also competitively quite sensitive. It's just one
part of our working capital management.
So, the way I really want to think about it also in terms of what we should look at for 2026, is to
really start from non-IFRS operating profit. And then of course for that next year we need to
embark a reasonable currency assumption, that on the cash flow we are hedging that. And while
we had been able to hedge at very good rates for free cash flow in 2025, now that we need to
still hedge for 2026 in the remainder two of the year and maybe even in the early innings of '26
when the planning is finalized, so we have a very solid base for that.
So, these are all the elements we need to take into account. So, we start from non-IFRS
operating profit, we deduct taxes and the current tax rates. You see a pretty reasonable proxy of
what they might be also in '26. And then there is always that offset between the cash and the P&L
on stock-based comp, which is adding roundabouts a EUR1 billion. You can also see that we did a
little bit more than EUR0.5 billion in the first half of the year in terms of positive contribution to
cash conversion from stock-based comp.
And then I would not really overemphasize the attribution of the puts and takes every quarter
because they can be quite volatile sometimes, seasonal sometimes. And there is a lot of
information actually in the balance sheet, as you point out, to contract liabilities and so forth. But it
would really now bust the scope of this call if we go jointly through all the accounts payables,
contract liabilities, and all of that. I'm actually preparing a little bit of a talk sheet for that. So we
can all take that offline and go through this if you're interested in playing that game. But it's -- youwill see when you do, that any given quarter can be kind of misleading. And what really matters is
more like a rolling 12-month window.
So, this is why I tend to focus on the full year. And I can only re-emphasize again now having
looked at the first view on the planning for the midterm that this kind of stupid rule of thumb take
the kind of non-IFRS operating profit, tax effected, and then take into account that the positive
impact from stock-based being equity-settled to a certain degree is a very good proxy over that
type of time frame with certain fluctuations year by year.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, and Michael, just to build on that, looking at the health of business we are closing these
days, I mean, obviously, when do we use these migration credits? I mean, we are using that when
especially large customers go into a massive transformation green field. They are really
completely redesigning the way how they predict demand, optimize supply chain on the shop
floor or logistics. And that of course comes with some initial costs also not only on system
migration but also really working on the business processes.
Now obviously, what we are doing is then okay, we say okay to make the business case even
more compelling, we give this migration credits at the limited threshold. And then -- but what
we're also then achieving is actually that our prices after discount go also constantly up. I mean,
our goal is of course, which is super important for the margin and the profit long term, is of
course that our prices are actually increasing quarter over quarter. And that's what we are
achieving. And despite some desperate moves, I have to say, from some of our competitors out
there, we are achieving really a healthy increase of prices quarter-over-quarter. And when you
then offset that and compare that, I would say we are using these migration credits in a very
good, in a very wise way to also protect our prices on subscription and recurring cloud revenue.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, good evening, Christian and Dominik. You both started your comments with a fairly prudent
message on the macro environment. Would be great if you could discuss how you see the
demand impacting CCB in the rest of the year. You highlighted US public sector, some
manufacturing segments impacted by tariffs, but also an overall fairly positive message. So, it
would be great to understand about your assumptions and how we should think about CCB, and
also cloud with a nice pickup to 28% in Q2, but any specific factors we should bear in mind for the
second half? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, so thanks a lot. And look, I mean, first, we clearly said already at the beginning of the year
that we always expected a slight deceleration of CCB. So, what we said at beginning of the year
is now actually also becoming a reality and was planned in as we honestly after this massive Q4,
we of course also came in at a very high base and Q1 was of course definitely a record high. Now,
when you're looking at half year two, I mean first, which gives me the confidence on the
guidance, is that pipeline coverage, we actually have the same coverage like last year, where we
had a stellar half year two. And that of course, assuming now we're going to hit the same
conversion rates like last year, I mean that is of course a very great position to be in. I mean that isgood, strong pipeline on of course, on a set of very ambitious bookings numbers for half year
two.
Now, of course, what now comes in is the uncertainty, and the same like in Q1, I would love to
have a crystal ball. I mean, there are some mega deals where of course, this creates a swing in
CCB on both sides, and obviously, what we need to see, especially in a few sectors like US public
sector, manufacturing, industries, where customers are impacted by tariffs, I mean that is, of
course, now really an important factor in half year two. So, we have the pipeline, we have really
good coverage. And look, the fascinating thing about SAP is also, when you're sitting in these
forecast calls, I mean you see the sheer resiliency of this company, and I'm not sure if all of our
peers have that.
I mean, no matter if one geo is performing a little bit soft, we have other geos who are actually
performing really well, and then you also see a good swing in the products. I mean, we have a
portfolio, last quarter it was definitely a very good quarter in cash flow optimization, we had a
good quarter in spend, et cetera. So, now it's really hard to say for half year two. It's really about
do we get all of the deals in with a similar conversion rate like last year. And of course, what we
need for that is really predictability on trade and customers who really then sign up for those
deals.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe one addition. Don't forget the WalkMe impact for the remainder too, yes. This is the last
quarter Q2 where we still benefit from the year-on-year improvement, and this will kind of phase
out over the next couple of quarters. Actually, Q3 already on CCB, it will be done now because
we closed the deal in the Q3 of the prior year, and so it's kind of apples to apples at that point in
time. And that roughly, very roughly, is 1.5 percentage points. So, once that happens, now what
happens otherwise, Christian has already commented, but I also want to make the point, you
should also not forget that we have some room in terms of protecting the accelerated revenue
growth for '26, '27 because of the very strong mix effect we are currently benefiting. So, even if
we had beyond that kind of 1.5, a very slight continued deceleration, that would still not derail that
objective.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Charlie Brennan with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi. Great. Yes, thanks for taking my question. Just a couple of quick ones if I can. Firstly, on the
cloud revenues, we don't often see growth matching the CCB. Were there any one-off catch-up
payments in the cloud revenues that we should be aware of, or was it a fairly clean quarter? And
then secondly, obviously, in the prepared remarks, you were calling out the Business Data Cloud,
you gave a couple of examples of contracts where you've got BDC embedded into the contracts.
Is there anything you can say in terms of the commercials that you've been able to extract there
that sheds some light on how material it could be for you over time? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I'll have a stab at that kind of 28% both on CCB and cloud revenue. You're right, I mean, if
you look at the cloud CCB growth, normally there is then some attrition downwards because of
transaction revenues, and we actually didn't mention that, but I can mention now that the
transactional part of the business was again disappointing, frankly. And it's not surprising. I mean,if you look at share prices of temporary workforce companies imploding over the last half year or
so, and the airlines also reporting on travel restrictions and also sometimes because of policy,
that's not a super good environment again, so that was dilutive. But the good news is, that kind
of, we always said, kind of EUR800 million-ish ticket is now further and further diluted in the mix.
So the dilutive effect on cloud revenue growth is coming down. But indeed, normally CCB growth
is followed by cloud revenue growth, which is a touch lighter because of that transactional
business.
On BDC --
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
BDC, yes, I can take that question. Look, BDC, I mean, first, it's good to see that we can leverage
BDC and sell it in many ways. I mean, first, we indeed -- BDC is part of many Wise deals,
especially customers, and there are many who still have their BW system on-prem. They are now
seeing with BDC a real business case because they're saying, hey, I'm not only now shifting the
BW to the cloud, I'm actually now working with Databricks to harmonize data, to really build the
semantic layer, and then of course consume the intelligent apps on top. And that kind of uplift on
a Wise deal can be up to 20% to 30% of ACV. It really depends on the size of the BW system and
how many data products a customer is consuming.
Now, BDC is not only a Wise add-on, BDC is of course now embedded in all of our solutions. I
mean, when you consume in the future, success factors, you can have actually our intelligent app
for HR in it, and you get prepackaged content, prepackaged data products semantically for the
skills of your workforce, for hiring profiles, for -- to really manage your workforce end-to-end. And
so that BDC will be also added to all of our LoB deals. And when you sum that up, obviously BDC,
I expect that this will be in a few years, of course, also a business which can be a few billions big,
and absolutely when you just consider the installed base what we are having also on the BW side.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, thank you. Hi Christian. Hi Dominik. And well done on the quarter. My question was just
again around coming back to some of the macro impacts that you're seeing. You've obviously
been able to withstand that pretty impressively. And when we look at your CCB growth versus
corresponding metrics to some of your peers, still quite impressive. In your view, what has
perhaps changed, really in the last couple of months that has kind of driven this change? You
alluded to some of the sort of the megadeals being a gating factor. And I noticed that the
percentage of kind of $5 million-plus order entry has been diminishing a little bit. Is it down to
that, or is it perhaps the complexity of some of the deals that customers are looking to kind of
break up into smaller pieces? It would be helpful to get some color on that. And are there any
particular verticals that you're seeing this weakness in? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Really good question. Look, I mean, first, very important, no deal with elongated deal cycles
is lost. I mean, obviously, we have seen in the last few weeks that suddenly customers needed
additional approval at the very top. So, deal cycles just become longer because there is much
more strict cost controls, especially in a few industries which we mentioned. Now, I mean, whenyou are now looking into half year two, I mean, for all of these big deals, what we're having and
obviously half year two, we have some of them, I mean, we have clear closing plans. We have, of
course, also customers leaning in. They like what they see with the business case. They also,
oftentimes, see SAP as a solution to overcome their own financial challenges coming from macro
uncertainty. But obviously, can you now -- can we certainly say in Q3 we're going to hit all deals
which are now lined up, especially the mega deals?
I mean, obviously, that is really hard to predict, and that's why the CCB, I mean, we always said
we're going to see a slight deceleration. But even assume there will be a further percentage
point of deceleration in Q3, even that would mean that we can further accelerate our total
revenue growth. And look, the good piece is, the pipeline is there, and we are not losing these
deals. We just now need to be more diligent in managing the closing plans and be even closer to
the customer that we are getting these deals in. Because obviously the CCB has a swing in half
year two, and that's hard to predict how big this swing will be. But again, the good piece is, we
have the pipeline and we have the material and the customer is responding very positively to the
business cases, what they -- what we are showing to them.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Ben Castillo, Analyst, BNP Paribas with BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben Castillo, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, good evening. Thanks for taking my question. Just coming back to the OpEx trajectory.
Obviously, you've just grown EBIT some 40% something in H1. I know you talked about the stock
comp impact there, but nevertheless, that still implies the operating profit growth slows quite
materially in H2. How much of that is just kind of conservatism on your part versus concrete plans
to accelerate investments in the back half? I guess tying that into your comments around
headcount, which was only up very modestly, Dominic, you mentioned possible continued
optimization going forward. What's the level of hiring that you feel is appropriate to deliver on the
growth acceleration there? Thanks.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, I tried to really mention the things that will make the kind of second half remain to do
versus first half a little bit more challenging. We mentioned as we sell from the stock-based
compensation that we have already taken the lion's share of the improvement because that
improvement was against I'd say very easy comps in the first half of the year where we had this
big impact on a large cash settled, the last trenches, weighing on our results in '24, and that's
kind of going away in '25, and that will not reoccur in the second half of the year.
Now, very specifically, on some investments we need to make, it's about hiring, yes, and I don't
want to be precise now on how many headcount exactly, but we are talking about several
thousand of headcount we would still embark. But I also mentioned that this kind of continuous
improvement to avoid like massive restructuring one-offs like we had last year, recall was 10,000
people. We would probably require some fine-tuning every now and then. And we think that Q3 is
probably a good point in time to do that. So -- and that will also in some geographies like
Germany, of course, imply severance payments that we need to pay. So, if you say 1% to 2% of
the population, you can make the math on 100,000-plus that we talk about up to 2,000, and
then you can make a certain assumption about what could happen in Germany, but that -- or in
France or in some other jurisdictions where you have severance. And that will also cost some
money.And we deliberately decided to not kind of start disclosing it like we did with the big programs
because we feel that this will be a recurring topic in the coming years. And so in a certain way it's
an upgrade, you could say, because we are really embarking that, digesting that in our numbers
without affecting our operating profit by that. So, that's what I wanted to allude to. And that's the
reason why the second half looks a little bit more manageable.
And then I also made the comment that, yes, we have to be cautious, prudent about H2 in terms
of remain to do of all the top-line and we don't want to speculate on the kind of more frothy part
of our guidance on that for operating profit, but also be able to absorb in case we are lending a
little bit more towards the lower half, in case that would materialize, that we also have protection
and operating profit and be solid on that one. Same truth for cash flow, by the way. I mean cash
flow, we also look quite robust, as you've commented, or some of you have commented yourself
for the remainder too. It's a manageable task, I'd say.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yes, thanks. Good evening. Thanks for taking my question. One for Christian, maybe, I mean,
yesterday, we launched the Made for Germany initiative. SAP is unsurprisingly a part of that, and I
think you also attended the launch event. Can you maybe talk a little bit about that? Just, firstly,
maybe in terms of SAP's contribution to this initiative, are there any also maybe investments that
you're planning as a part of that, that's material enough for us to think about? And then secondly,
just what you are hoping to get out of this, as SAP, is obviously with EUR600 billion-plus massive
investments planned over the next few years. So, talk a bit about potentially the financial impact
for you, but also what you hope to get out of it, non-financially. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Johannes, happy to answer your question. I mean, look, first of all, in Germany, some -- definitely
some optimism is needed and I guess this initiative yesterday is also a good starting point that
also the private sector sees now some really early positive actions by our new government, which
we definitely also want to support by also further highlighting the importance of Germany as one
of our investment areas in the future.
With regard to SAP, I mean, we have actually very important labs in Munich, in Berlin, we are
actually collaborating a lot with the Technical University on Supply Chain AI. We are doing a lot,
with obviously the HPI, which is world-class when it comes to AI on the data side. And we are
doing a lot also, there in some research in industrial-related AI modules. And so -- and that is, of
course, a few investment areas we are going to see also going forward. For us as SAP, obviously,
in this initiative, it's also very important to further push down the overregulation we have in
Europe because that is clearly a factor which reduces the competitiveness of not only the industry
but also especially the many startups we are having. I mean, we do a lot of development of AI in
Palo Alto, in India, et cetera. But think about all the tech startups we are having in Europe, and with
the kind of overregulation we are having, I mean they are starting already with a big, big
disadvantage compared to some other startups around the world.
And then last but not least, obviously, what we are pushing is with sovereignty. I mean, I
mentioned HENSOLDT, I mentioned we have a lot of defense customers in Europe, and
obviously, with this initiative and a big focus on digital, I mean obviously, we see another strong
momentum coming to us when it comes to transforming defense, where there is anyway a lot ofspend these days. So -- but of course, all of these defense customers are also now reaching out
and saying, hey, we cannot only spend in assets in more production capabilities, we also definitely
need to drive digitization and that is of course -- the sovereignty aspect is of course also a huge
aspect what SAP can contribute to the competitiveness of Europe, especially in areas like public
sector and of course also defense.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Michael Turrin, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Turrin, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Hey, great, good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. Christian, you mentioned Sapphire as
the main highlight in Q2. Can you speak more around any business impacts you're seeing on the
back of that event? Any commentary around pipeline, new product impacts, or adoption trends,
and how that sets you up for the rest of the year?
And just a small follow-on, on the US public sector commentary. Are you confident, any elongation
impacts you're seeing there currently are appropriately factored into how you're looking at the
rest of the year from a guidance perspective? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, Sapphire, I mean, it's always the event of the year where we actually generate the
pipeline to have enough coverage to close out the year according to our guidance. And this was
definitely the case this year. I mean, it was a few billion of pipeline which we added on top of the
Sapphire, which -- but again, yes, which is every year needed. But this year, I would say it was
definitely a very, very positive outcome. When you just look at the pipeline we generated out of
Orlando, and of course, one week later out of Madrid.
Now, on the public sector, I mean, this is, of course, when you think about the US public sector, I
mean, obviously things have become a bit more difficult with DOGE, with certain agencies, and of
course, the decision cycles and who is now deciding to move forward on a certain project. I mean,
of course, there we are also, of course, working extremely close together with DOGE, with a few
agencies, and we just hope that in half year two, that pays off. But still, I have to say, of course,
this is one of the areas where we definitely have to see that we can hopefully accelerate cycle --
sales cycles in the half year two, and when we are on it. And that is the situation in the US public
sector.
A - `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Awesome. Well, thank you, Christian, and Dominik. And this concludes our call for today. Thank
you, everyone, for joining.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks a lot.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Have a great day.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
All right. Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now concluded, and you may disconnect your
telephone. Thank you for joining, and have a pleasant day.