Q2 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Tesla's Second Quarter 2025 Q&A Webcast.
My name is `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations, and I'm joined today by `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer, Vaibhav
Taneja, and a number of other executives. Our Q2 results were announced at about 3:00 p.m.
Central Time and the update deck will be published at the same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC. During the question-and-answer portion of today's call,
please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Please use the Raise Hand button to join
the question queue. Before we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Travis. So we've had a very exciting quarter. We were able to successfully launch
Robotaxi, so providing our first drives with no one in the driver's seat with paying customers in
Austin. And as some may have noted, we've already expanded our service area in Austin. It's
bigger and longer. And it's going to get even bigger and longer. We were expecting to really
greatly increase the Austin service area to well in excess of what competitors are doing. And
that's hopefully --
Unidentified Speaker
In a week or so, two weeks?
`Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, a couple of weeks.`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. A couple of weeks or so. And we're getting the regulatory permission to launch in the Bay
Area, Nevada, Arizona, and a number of -- and Florida and a number of other places. So as soon
as we get the approvals and we prove out safety, then we'll be launching to autonomous ride-
hailing, it can -- in most of the country.
And I think we'll probably have autonomous ride-hailing in about half the population of the U.S. by
the end of the year. That's at least our goal, subject to regulatory approvals. I think we'll
technically be able to do it. So assuming we get regulatory approvals, it's probably addressing
half the population of the U.S. by the end of the year. But we are being very cautious. We don't
want to take any chances. And so we're going to, yes, go cautiously. But it did -- the service areas
and the number of vehicles in operation will increase at a hyper-exponential rate.
So add some other notable things, Model Y in June became the best-selling car in Turkey,
Netherlands, Switzerland, and Austria. It is, I believe, the best-selling car of any kind in the world
still. And autonomy is a big factor there. So even without -- even absent -- even without
supervised -- even with just supervised self-driving, it's a huge selling point. And it's worth noting
that we do not actually yet have approval for supervised FSD in Europe, where we'll -- so our
sales in Europe, we think, will improve significantly once we are able to give customers the same
experience that they have in the U.S. This is, I think, a very important point to convey.
And we've been working with a country regulator, which is the Netherlands. And I think we're
close to getting approval with Netherlands, then it's going to go to the EU. It's quite a Kafka-
esque. In fact, Kafka had no idea that something like the EU could exist, right, beyond Kafka-
esque challenges with bureaucracy. But it will -- we will get the approvals. And I think we'll get --
some people in Europe will have an experience similar to that of the U.S. in most of Europe, this
year, hopefully, at least partially in this quarter. And then we also have some regulatory challenges
in China, which we're hoping to unblock shortly, where we -- because we also cannot provide
supervised FSD in China currently. But we hope to unblock that soon. And that's also -- that's
another major -- it really is the single biggest demand drive.
And then, within the U.S., as we get confident about safety in different geographic areas, the --
we'll loosen up on how much somebody has to be laser-focused -- to have their eyes laser-
focused on the road. Because that's been a common complaint. In fact, it does create an odd
safety issue where people will sometimes disengage autopilot, then do something, change the
radio, or maybe look at the phone, drive with their knee, and then re-engage autopilot, which
obviously that is less safe than simply keeping autopilot on. So anyway (inaudible) get that --
that's the experience will improve in the next several weeks.
The -- because of our focus on Austin with no one in the driver's seat, the production release of
autopilot is actually several months behind what people experienced on a Robotaxi in Austin. So
now we have the Robotaxi in Austin launched will be providing -- adding back those elements so
that there will be a step-change improvements in the autopilot experience for people outside of
Austin. So this is really -- as you can tell, this is very much sort of autonomy is the story.
Like, we need to -- we need the physical product, without which you cannot have autonomy, but
once you have a physical product, you need the autonomy is what amplifies the value to
stratospheric levels.
We also launched the Tesla Diner, which has been a huge hit. It actually got worldwide attention,
which is unusual for a diner. Diners don't typically get headline news around Earth, but this is aand -- but otherwise sort of bleak open landscape, frankly. So really, really, quite, quite a lovely
experience. Great job by the Tesla team there.
On the Full Self-Driving front, I'll just continue talking about that. We have -- we're continuing to
make a significant improvements just with the software. So the -- we're expecting to increase the
parameter count. Actually at this point, I think we think we can probably 10x that -- almost 10x the
parameter.
Unidentified Speaker
Yes, roughly.
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, roughly 10x the parameter count. So this is actually a very tricky thing to do. Because if you -
- as you increase the parameter count, you get choked on memory bandwidth. But we currently
think we can 10x the parameter count from what people are currently experiencing. So not just
4x, actually 10x increase in parameter count. And yes, so this is still a lot of improvement on the
existing hardware to happen.
Energy is growing really well. Despite headwinds from tariffs, and experiencing supply chain
challenges, the Megapack is expanding capacity quickly, and we have upgrades to the Megapack
that will make it even better, and we have record Powerwall deployments again in Q2.
So I think the batteries are going -- just going to be a massive thing. The scale of batteries,
battery demand is, I think, not that many people appreciate just how gigantic the scale of battery
demand is. The way you think about it is that the U.S. sustained power output for the U.S. grid is
around 1 terawatt, but average usage is less than 0.5 terawatt. If you add batteries to the mix,
you can run the power plants 24/7 at full capacity, thus doubling -- more than doubling the energy
output per year of the United States just with batteries, but that's sinking. Big deal. It's a really big
deal.
Optimus, so, we're evolving Optimus design and really getting Optimus to the point where it is a
phenomenal design. We're on Optimus Version 2 right now, sort of 2.5. Optimus 3 is an exquisite
design, in my opinion, and will be an incred -- as I've said many times before, I predict it will be
the biggest product ever. It's a very hard problem to solve. You have to design every part of it
from physics-first principles.
There's nothing that's off-the-shelf that actually works. So you've got to design your motor
gearbox, power electronics, control electronics, sensors, the mechanical elements. You've also
got to train Optimus to use its limbs and its sensors with a neural net, but we'll be applying the
same techniques that we've applied for a car, which is essentially a four-wheeled robot, and
Optimus is a robot with arms and legs. The same principles that apply to optimizing AI inference
on a car apply to Optimus, because they're both really robots in different forms.
And Tesla, it is important to note that Tesla is by far the best in the world at real-world AI. A clear
proof point for that would be if you compare, say, Tesla to Waymo, Waymo's got -- the car is
steering with, God knows, how many sensors. And yet, isn't Google good at AI? Yes, but they're
not good at real-world AI. Thus far they've -- Tesla is actually much better than Google, by far,
much better than anyone, at real-world AI.
And by far, Tesla has the best inference efficiency. Like, I got a key figure for what AI is, what is
the intelligence per gigabyte? People talk about parameters, blah, blah, blah, but I think peopleyou can have 4-bit parameters, 8-bit parameters, 16-bit parameters, but the actual constraints in
the hardware are how many gigabytes of RAM and how many gigabytes per second can you
transfer from RAM.
Therefore, it is not a parameter constraint, it is a byte constraint. And Tesla has the highest
intelligence density of any AI by far. And I have a lot of insight into this with xAI. xAI is -- Grok is the
smartest AI overall, but it's a -- Grok 4 is a giant beast actually at the terabyte level. And so it's
kind of important to know that Tesla has the best intelligence density, and intelligence density will
be a very big deal in the future, but it is now.
So with Optimus 3, which is really the right design, it's like it doesn't have -- at this point, there's
no significant flaws with the Optimus 3 design, it -- but we are going to retool a bunch of things.
So it's going to probably be prototypes of Optimus 3 end of this year, and then scale production
next year.
We're going to try to scale Optimus production as fast as it's seemingly possible to do, so we're
trying to get to 1 million units a year as quickly as possible. Do you think we can get there in less
than five years? That's my sort of -- my guess. That's a reasonable aspiration, 1 million units a year
in -- five years. It seems like an achievable target.
In conclusion, so far 2025 has been a very exciting year, a lot of major milestones. We've made
demonstrable progress in autonomy that a lot of naysayers said we would not achieve. And it's
worth noting that we have done what we said we're going to do. Doesn't mean we're always on
time, but we get it done. And our naysayers are sitting there with egg on their face.
So great, great, great progress by the Tesla team. And I do think if Tesla continues to execute
well with vehicle autonomy and humanoid robot autonomy. It will be the most valuable company
in the world. There's a lot of execution between here and there. It doesn't just happen, right?
Provided we execute very well, I think, Tesla has a shot at being the most valuable company in the
world.
Anyway, obviously, I'm extremely optimistic about the future of the company. The best way to
predict the future is to make it happen, and we're making it happen here with Tesla team. So I'd
just like to say thanks to all of our supporters, and I think we're going to foretell you have an
incredibly exciting future.
`Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you very much, Elon. And Vaibhav has a few marks as well.
`Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Travis. As Elon mentioned, Q2 was an interesting quarter in a few respects. We started
ramping up the production of the new Model Y at all our factories. We rolled out our Robotaxi
service in Austin and delivered a car completely autonomously from -- directly from the factory to
the customer's home.
It is a seminal point to get to this thing. I mean, it took a lot of effort, and I really want to thank
everybody at Tesla to make this happen. It wasn't an easy thing to do, but we did it. It took time,
but we've just begun the next phase for the company.
The One Big Bill has a lot of changes that would affect our business in the near term. The first
among those changes is the repeal of the IRA EV credit of $7,500 by the end of this quarter.already within lead times to order parts to build cars. We've rolled out all our planned incentives
already, and we'll start carrying them back as we start to sell.
If you're in the U.S. and looking to buy a car, place your order now as we may not be able to
guarantee delivery orders placed in the later part of August and beyond. But we'll also make
changes to certain emissions standards by reducing the amount of penalty to zero. This, in turn,
will have an impact on the new sales of regulatory credits to other OEMs and, in turn, will lead to
lower earnings.
While we never plan our business around such sales, it will nonetheless impact our total revenues
quite fast. While the automotive product portfolio, the entire lineup is updated, globally we're
seeing an increase in the number of test drives. We started the production of the lower-cost
model as planned in the first half of '25. However, given our focus on building and delivering as
many vehicles as possible in the U.S. before the EV credit expires, and the additional complexity
of ramping a new product, the ramp will happen next quarter, slower than initially expected.
One thing which is grossly under-appreciated in the automotive market is that all our vehicles in
the lineup are capable of autonomy. This is by far the biggest differentiator between us and the
competition. Our vehicles stop safety standards as is, but with FSD, they are and will continue to
set a new standard for safety within regular transportation. We published our Vehicle Safety
Report earlier today, and you can see the car on FSD is 10x safer than the car not on FSD.
We've started seeing an uptick in FSD adoption in North America in recent months, which is a very
promising trend. And just to give you a perspective, since the launch of -- since we moved to
Version 12 of FSD, we've seen the adoption rates really increase.
We've started seeing the -- on the automotive revenue front, despite reduction in regulatory
credit revenue, and the auto -- the total automotive revenue increased by 19% sequentially, even
though total deliveries only improved 14%. This was primarily due to an improved ASPs because
of the new Model Y. This has been improving margins sequentially as well, along with improved
mix and higher cost -- fixed-cost adoption, despite an increased cost from tariffs. We've started
seeing the impact of tariffs in our P&L. Sequentially, the cost of tariffs increased around $300
million, with approximately two-thirds of that impact in automotive and rest in energy.
However, given the latency in manufacturing and sales, the full impacts will come through in the
following quarters, and so cost will increase in the near term. While we are doing our best to
manage these impacts, we are in an unpredictable environment on the tariff front. The margins
for the energy generation and storage businesses improved sequentially, while deployment
reduced, primarily due to the ramp of Powerwall deployments at higher margins. We were able to
achieve our highest gross profit for the business yet. Note that the overall deployments will
continue to vary quarter to quarter.
I think Elon covered this that industrial storage will make a difference in this drive towards AI and
data center growth. The energy requirements are increasing at a rapid scale as application -- as
AI applications are very energy-hungry. The quickest path to scale up energy is deploying storage.
This is something that our customers have started realizing. And despite this business having the
largest impacts from tariffs, we're seeing customers willing to accept some of the tariff impacts.
The Big Bill has certain adverse impacts even for the energy business, most notably on the
residential storage business due to the early expiration of consumer credits by the end of this
year. The challenges of the storage business, therefore, remain both from the bill and from
tariffs, and we're doing our best to try and manage through this. But it will -- we will see shifts inThe margins for our service and other businesses improves sequentially, primarily due to higher
profits from supercharging and improvement in insurance and service center profitability.
Operating expenses also grew sequentially as we continued our investment in AI projects,
including additional expenses related to employee-related costs, including higher stock-based
compensation and depreciation for AI compute. Our operating expenses, especially in R&D-
related spend, will continue to grow. We believe even in the current environment, it is the right
strategy to keep making investments in these areas to position us for the long term.
Other income grew sequentially primarily from the mark-to-market adjustment on Bitcoin
holdings, which was $284 million gain in Q2 while being $125 million loss in Q1. Just want to remind
people that this would keep creating volatility based on the Bitcoin price. While other -- while
operating cash flows increased sequentially, so did our CapEx, resulting in $146 million of free
cash flow. We continue to make investments in various aspects of manufacturing, like the
Cybercab, Semi lines, and other manufacturing spend, and the expansion of our AI initiatives. Our
latest expectation for the year in terms of CapEx is in excess of $9 billion.
To summarize, we have near-term challenges in our business due to the negative impacts of the
Bill and tariffs. However, the investments that we have made for AI, robotics, and our lead in
energy sets us up for a bright future. I would like to thank the whole Tesla team, our customers,
our investors and supporters for their continued belief in us.
Questions And Answers
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
(Question And Answer)
Great. Thank you very much, Vaibhav. So now we're going to move on to Say.com questions. The
first question is, can you give us some insight how Robotaxis have been performing so far? And
what rate you expect to expand in terms of vehicles, geofence, cities, and supervisors?
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Vice President, AI Software `
Yes, the Robotaxi has been doing great so far in Austin. The customers really love the
experience. It's like super smooth, very safe, and like, just a great experience overall. And we
already did the first wave of expansion in Austin, and we'll continue to expand in Austin to
probably more than 10x our current operating region.
We're also testing in a lot of other cities, as Elon mentioned. The next thing to expand would be
in the San Francisco Bay Area. We're working with the government to get approval here, and in
the meanwhile, launch a service with the person in the driver's seat just to expedite and while we
wait for regulatory approval. We're also testing in a lot of other cities in the U.S., including Florida,
Nevada, et cetera.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you very much, Ashok. The next question is, what are the key technical and
regulatory hurdles still remaining for unsupervised FSD to be available for personal use? Can you
provide a timeline?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We're certainly getting there. I think it'll be available for unsupervised personal use by the end of
this year in certain geographies. We're just being very careful about it.A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
This is not something which we want to rush.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
No.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
We want to make sure that everything is safe before we make it available broadly.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we're just being extremely paranoid.
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
But I'm confident that by the end of this year, within a number of cities in the U.S., we will be
available to end-users. Like -- yes.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Vice President, AI Software `
Yes. And for what it's worth, it's the same hardware in the Austin Robotaxi vehicles as some
customer vehicles.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Right.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Vice President, AI Software `
And we do deliver a car autonomously from the factory to a customer, The Squadron.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Vice President, AI Software `
And every Tesla manufactured in the U.S. and in Europe autonomously drives itself from the end
of line to the loading docks. And -- so it's just a software update away.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think we'll be in -- we'll end up delivering cars in the Greater Austin area and the Bay Area
by default from the factory by the end of this year. A good car will deliver itself to where you are,
unless you say you don't want that.
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Vice President, AI Software `
That would be super cool.A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, guys. The next question is, what specific factory tasks is Optimus currently
performing, and what is the expected timeline for scaling production to enable external sales?
How does Tesla envision Optimus contributing to revenue in the next two to three years?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So the Optimus 3 design, as I mentioned earlier, is I think, finally the right design. There will
be further optimizations, but there are no -- I think, no fundamental changes that are needed for
the Optimus 3 design. It has all the degrees of freedom that you really want, all you need. So it's
-- we'll have prototypes of that in, I don't know, two or three months. And it's sub-trillion
production. We'll certainly start production on that in the beginning of next year.
The production ramp, it's always difficult to predict the S-curve of a production ramp when
something has got an entire -- when everything is new, because the rate of production will move
as fast as the least lucky and least competent element of the entire supply chain as well as
internal processes. So the more new stuff that is in a product, the slower the ramp could be
because of unexpected supply chain interruptions or mistakes made internally.
It's much easier to predict sort of the end of the S-curve or late in the S-curve than the beginning
of the S-curve. And the beginning of the S-curve of the production ramp is, in any case, not really
material for revenue purposes. The beginning of the S-curve, you're usually -- usually you're
always negative gross margin, and you're debugging in lot of issues.
So that's why, like, it's -- I feel like fairly confident in predicting things, or at least medium
confident in predicting where we are at five years, but it's hard to predict where we are in a year
or two years. So that's why I think five years, I think, we could be at the -- let me put it this way, I'd
be surprised if, at the end of five years, 60 months from now, if we are not roughly making
100,000 Optimus robots a month in 60 months, I would be shocked.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you very much. Next question is, can you provide an update on the development
and production timeline for Tesla's more affordable models? How will these models balance cost
reduction, profitability, and what impact do you expect on demand in the current economic
climate?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Well, I think Vaibhav did a good job of answering this question in his opening remarks. As we said,
we started production in June, and we're ramping quality builds and things throughout the
quarter. And given that we started in North America and that our goal is to maximize production
with IRA cliff ending Q3, we're going to keep pushing hard on our current models to avoid
complexity. And fortunately, that goes away, we'll be ready with more affordable models available
for everyone in Q4. And the goal of those products was not to negatively impact revenue or
gross margin, but just to make a car that everyone loves and wants at a more affordable price.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `Great. Thank you, Lars. The next question is, can you talk about the benefits of Tesla investing in
xAI?
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
This is not the forum to discuss this topic. I mean, if there is something which we need to discuss,
we'll discuss it separately.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, obviously, we're a publicly-traded company, shareholders are welcome to put to forward
any shareholder proposals that they'd like. I've recently encouraged that, and then have
shareholders vote, and we'll act in accordance with the shareholder wishes.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you very much. The next question is, can you tell us a little bit more about what goes
on in a Tesla Design Studio?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Do you want me to take that one? We kind of generally say that what happens in the Studio stays
in the Studio. And that earnings calls are not the place to disclose new product stuff, but we're
working to make sure that we have an exciting future for our Tesla and in the product line.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. There's a lot of exciting things happening in the Design Studio. It's not like static. And really
what's going to happen over the next several years is a fundamental transformation of the
company from a pre-autonomy world to a post-autonomy. And I'm working on a new master plan
to articulate that. Tesla team and -- there will be -- there are some teething pains as you
transition from a pre-autonomy to a post-autonomy world, but I think that the future vision for
Tesla is incredibly exciting and will profoundly change the world in a good way. So it's not like sort
of time for Vaibhav, but I think, if -- well, let's just say, if we execute on that plan effectively, which
is you have to actually do that, Tesla will be the most valuable company in the world by far.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you. The next question is actually duplicate on unsupervised FSD for customer
vehicles, we'll skip that. After that is, are there any news for Hardware 3 users getting retrofits or
upgrades? Will they get Hardware 4 or some future version of Hardware 5?
A - `Vaibhav Taneja, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, what we want to do is we want to get unsupervised done on Hardware 4 first. Once it's
done, then we'll go back and look at what we need to do with the Hardware 3 cars. I mean, like I
said, the focus is first to get unsupervised out, and then we'll go back and see what more work
we need to do.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Next question is, can you give an update on Dojo, and could xAI be a customer for Dojo?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `Dojo 2, we expect to have Dojo 2 operating at scale sometime next year, with scale being
somewhere around 100,000 H100 equivalent. And then AI5, which is really, it's spectacular chip
to use those words lightly, it's spectacular chip. The AI5 chip will hopefully be in volume
production around the end of next year, but that has a lot of potential.
I think, thinking about Dojo 3 and the AI6 inference chip, it seems like intuitively, we want to try to
find convergence there, where it's basically the same chip, but is used where we use, say, two of
them in a car or an Optimus, and maybe a larger number on a board, like out of five 1,200 board,
something like that. If you want high-bandwidth communication between the chips at a forced
serving, doing a burn serving, that sort of seems like intuitively the sensible way to go.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. The next set of questions have all actually been covered, so we'll end with, how will the
BBV elimination of tax credits for solar projects affect your sales pipeline for Megapack?
A - `Michael Snyder, VP, Energy and Charging `
Yes, Mark, our sales pipeline is quite diversified across customers and market segments, so we
aren't heavily weighted in Megapack projects that are paired with solar. And as we talked about in
the opening remarks, we're seeing storage quickly being recognized for its ability to unlock grid
efficiency and how quickly it can be deployed to help the grid.
Additionally, although the recent Bill was not favorable towards solar, we believe solar projects
will still get built, because the energy is necessary, the projects are well developed, and they're
ready for execution, and there's really no alternatives in the near term given gas turbine lead
time and pricing.
We also continue to see growth in the data center segment and in standalone storage projects
providing capacity to the grid in several markets across the U.S. Overall, we were forecasting a
very strong second half of the year as we increased deployments. And lastly, we continue to
invest heavily in U.S. manufacturing to mitigate policy and tariff impacts, expecting our first LFP cell
manufacturing facility to be online by the end of the year and launching our third Megafactory
near Houston in 2026.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Mike. We will now be moving to analyst questions. The first question comes
from `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research at Wolfe Research. Emmanuel, please feel free to unmute yourself
whenever you're ready.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you so much. Can you hear me?
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Yes.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research `
Thanks. So Elon, are you able to share any KPIs with us in terms of the Robotaxi business? How
many vehicles are you operating, miles driven autonomously, or the number of safety-criticalintervention? Just curious, how the rollout is -- generally is going in any sort of like targets that you
could share more broadly?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Ashok, do you want to --
A - `Ashok Elluswamy, Vice President, AI Software `
Yes. We have more than 7,000 miles operating in Austin area. It's -- just because service is new,
we have a handful of vehicles right now, but then we are trying to expand the service in terms of
both the area and also the number of vehicles both in Austin and other locations.
So far, there's like no notable safety-critical incidents. Sometimes we have our own restrictions as
to, for example, we restrict our speed limit to 40 miles per hour on roads, and if the vehicle
wants to go on like higher speed roads, we can stop the vehicle, but those are out of
convenience as opposed to safety-critical nature. So far, the service has been really well received,
and we continue to expand on it.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Emmanuel, do you have a follow-up?
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research `
And then -- yes.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Go ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research `
Longer-term -- from an economics point of view, longer-term, you've previously talked about
working to drive down the cost per mile on the Robotaxis maybe towards $0.30 or $0.40 per
mile over time. Now that your service is live, how should we think about the main milestones to
getting there?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Well, the Cybercab, is which is really optimized for autonomy, that I think, has got probably
sub $0.30 per mile potential over time, maybe $0.25. It's really -- like, if you design a car from
scratch to be a cost-optimized robotic taxi like Cybercab, like, for example, we're not trying to
make it corner like a -- like incredibly well, like a Model 3 would or Model S, or even Model Y, like
it's got -- model -- all of our cars that are driven by people are super fun to drive. They've got
incredible acceleration, they've got incredible cornering capability.
But we're confident that very few people in a Cybercab want to be hurtling around. So we were --
we produced the top-end speed, which means we can use more efficient tires. We don't need as
much acceleration. We don't need as much brake system. We want stopping distance, but we're
not expecting it to be heavily used. It's a gentle ride. Essentially, if you design it for a gentle ride,
and then you have a much more optimized design point.
So that's why it seems probably we could achieve that, especially if Optimus is serving, it'sgoing to -- the actual cost per mile of Cybercab will be very low. The cost per mile of our existing
fleet will be higher, but it's still very competitive.
So yes, maybe something over $0.50, I'm just guessing. Yes, so this -- really, Tesla's Robotaxi
fleet will go from tiny to gigantic in terms of operations in a pretty short period of time. Like, my
guess is it has a material impact on our financials around the end of next year.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you very much. The next question comes from Adam at Morgan Stanley. Adam,
please unmute yourself.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Hello, everybody. So Elon, as Tesla moves into this next phase of physical AI, autonomous,
humanoids, Robotaxis, et cetera, world-changing, civilizational species-changing technology with
dual-purpose, are you comfortable moving Tesla in this direction while only having a 13% stake in
the economy -- sorry, in the company? Is that sustainable, or does -- do you still insist that
something needs to happen given your current lack of control on the types of technologies
you're getting into?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. That is a major concern for me, as I've mentioned in the past, and I hope that is addressed
at the upcoming shareholders' meeting. But yes, it is a big deal, like, I want to find that I've got,
like, so little control that I can easily be ousted by activist shareholders after having bought these
army of humanoid robots. I think, as I mentioned before, I think my control over Tesla should be
enough to ensure that it goes in a good direction, but not so much control that I can't be thrown
out if I go crazy.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Okay, Elon, you're not going to go crazy. We trust you.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well --
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
You can stay a little crazy, a little crazy is okay. Elon, we understand the Board of Directors of a
major U.S. investment bank recently toured Optimus production. That's -- I don't know if you want
to confirm that or not; it's just what we've heard. That's cool. But when do you think others will be
able to get a first-hand view of Optimus like that? And is the second half of this year too soon to
have an AI Day? Because it seems like everybody else in the world is doing it, and this talent war
is getting freaking crazy. And I know you've mentioned for recruiting purposes, this is a very
important thing that you've done. I think people have copied you on this, and I'm wondering if this
is -- if this year is too early for that. Thanks, Elon.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it's a bit of a tough thing, because like, when we do an AI Day, we find that some of our
competitors have literally done a frame-by-frame examination of our slides and everything wesay, and then copy us. So I'd say, like, what's the trade-off, can we -- which does help with
recruiting, but then competitors look very closely and copy us.
I mean, that said, we should probably -- I mean, I guess we could consider the shareholder
meeting to be sort of an -- we can do -- we can maybe go into depth, some amount of depth, at
the Annual Shareholder Meeting, with respect to Optimus and AI and sort of our chip stuff,
perhaps. Yes, Tesla is also really underrated in terms of AI chip design, as well as AI software.
And -- so like, there's still not a chip that we would -- that exists that we would prefer to put in our
car that is an AI chip that we would prefer to put in the car of our own, even though it's been now
out for several years. And we're confident that the AI5 chip will be a profound game-changer. In
fact, it's so powerful that we'll have to nerf it, or to some degree, for markets outside of the U.S.
because it flows way past the export restrictions. So unless the export restrictions change, we
actually will have to nerf our AI5 chips, which is kind of weird. Hopefully, those - hopefully we keep
raising the bar on export restrictions, otherwise it gets a bit silly.
We'll have a bunch of Optimus robots on stage at the shareholder meeting. The Optimus lab is
cool to see, it looks like -- it basically looks like the set of Westworld. Robots in various stages.
Some of them are in various stages of prepare. Like, I don't know, it's some combination of the
Tatooine junkyard and Westworld is what it looks like. It's very cool. And Optimus is walking
around the office here in Palo Alto. So just 24/7, it's just walking around like it's normal. I think I'm --
it's so optimistic, like the Tesla Diner serve me popcorn. Yeah, so it's -- we'll go from a world,
where robots are rare to where they're so common that you don't even look up.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you so much. The next question comes from Edison at Deutsche Bank. Edison,
please unmute yourself. Edison, please go ahead and unmute yourself.
All right, while Edison figures that out, we will go to the next question, which is going to come
from `Dan Levy, Barclays at Barclays. Dan, please go ahead and unmute yourself.
Q - `Dan Levy, Barclays `
Great. Thank you. Elon, you've talked about the opportunity to put non-Tesla-owned vehicles into
the Robotaxi network. Just talk about the gating factors to enabling that and what timeline we
should expect on personally-owned vehicles in the Robotaxi network.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We haven't really thought hard about that. We need to make sure it works when the vehicles are
fully under our control. And yeah, it's kind of one step at a time here. We don't want to jump the
gun. As I said, we're being paranoid about safety. So, it's like -- but I guess it would be like next
year -- I'd say confidently next year, I'm not sure when next year, but confidently next year, people
would be able to add or subtract their car to the Tesla fleet.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
I mean, one thing to keep in mind is that we will have some criteria, because like even when you
put your car in an Uber or Lyft fleet, they go through a whole checklist process of making sure
things are working.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `It's like an Airbnb or something.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yes. Yes, so we will do something like that.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Some kind of gating process.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yes. Like Elon said, we want to be paranoid about security. I mean, assets, small things like tread
on the tire can have an impact on safety. So, that's why we would want to do some proper
validation before we let other cars come in.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Dan, you have a follow-up?
Q - `Dan Levy, Barclays `
Yes, thank you. Could you just unpack the different costs associated with scaling the Robotaxi
business and how you think about funding those costs? Are the cash flows in the auto business
sufficient to fund it? And if not, what other funding sources do you think you'd use? Would you just
fund it off the balance sheet?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, as soon as there is a clear cash flow stream associated with any product, you can debt-
finance it.
Q - `Dan Levy, Barclays `
And in the interim?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
I mean, in the interim, we will use our balance sheet. But like once we get to a certain scale in
terms of the recurring revenues, like Elon said, we could get into an easier kind of transaction to
try and get funding.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks so much. We will now move on to Mark from Goldman Sachs. Mark, please feel free
to unmute yourself.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking the questions. With the FSD trials that Tesla
has been offering to consumers and the attention on self-driving more generally, are you able to
comment more specifically on what you're seeing with FSD subscription trends and take rates
and help us better understand how large FSD revenue may be currently?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `So, we've definitely, like I mentioned in my opening remarks, since we've launched Version 12 of
FSD in North America, we've definitely seen a marked improvement in the FSD adaption. And the
other thing, which we had also done last year is we did bring down the pricing, and we made
subscription much more affordable. So, we have seen a 25% increase since that time. So -- which
is an encouraging trend. But honestly, we've just started the story around explaining the benefits
of FSD.
With -- like I said before, we released our Vehicle Safety Report. Even if you don't believe in this,
anything else, a car on FSD being 10x safer should be a motivator. Plus, the other thing is people
don't realize, even at $99 a month, it's like you're getting a personal chauffeur for almost $3.33 a
day. And this is by far the biggest game changer, which I know we've been talking about it
because part of it is we live and breathe it, but I feel like --
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Most people still don't know.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yeah.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
The vast majority of people don't know it exists, and it's still like half of Tesla owners, who could
use it haven't tried it even once. They don't actually realize that. Obviously, this is something we
want to educate them on. So, we've got to -- when they come in for service, we'll reach out to
them, send them videos of how to make it work. And it's such a shocking thing. They don't think a
car is capable of this.
So, you have to show them and get them comfortable with turning it on and off. It's so trivial, but
it's like saying you've got a cat that can sing and dance, but it just looks like a normal cat. And
you're like, until you see the cat sing and dance and talk, you're like -- you assume it's just a cat.
That's Tesla FSD.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Yes.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Our car is intelligent.
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
And so, what we're going to do, to Elon's point, we've been giving people free time to try an
FSD, but we'll start giving more prompts to say, okay, this particular drive, try FSD so that -- I mean
because it's literally seeing is believing. Like Elon said, think of it like a cat. It looks like a normal
cat, but this cat can sing and dance. Same thing.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's intelligent.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `Great. Yeah. And the 25% comment was 25% increase in the penetration since we've seen the
release of V12 and V13 in North America. Great. Thank you. Mark, did you have a follow-up
question?
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. Thanks, Travis. Tesla has historically said it would use pricing as one tool to help drive auto
vehicle growth as long as free cash flow stayed positive, given the ability to monetize products
like FSD. I'm curious how you're thinking about pricing from here as a potential tool to drive
increased volumes, given where you stand with FSD, as well as the fact that the IRA purchase tax
credits are poised to go away in the U.S., starting in the fourth quarter. So, should we expect
more meaningful price reductions given that monetization potential, or do you envision price
reductions being more limited compared to cost downs given where free cash flow now stands?
Thanks.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we're in this, like, weird transition period, where we will lose a lot of incentives in the U.S.
There's a lot of incentives actually in many other parts of the world, but we'll lose them in the U.S.
and because still look at the relatively early stages of autonomy. On the other hand, autonomy is
most advanced and most available from a regulatory standpoint in the U.S.
So, I mean, does that mean, like, we could have a few rough quarters? Yes, we probably could
have a few rough quarters. I'm not saying we will, but we could. Q -- Q4, Q1, maybe Q2. But once
you get to autonomy at scale in the second half of next year, certainly by the end of next year, I
think the -- I would be surprised if Tesla's economics are not very compelling.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great. The next question is going to come from Will from Truist. Will, please feel free to unmute
yourself when you're ready.
Q - `William Stein, Truist Securities `
Great. Thanks so much for taking my questions. First, I'd like to ask for a little bit more detail
about the lower-cost model that you talked about, having, I think, started production in the first
half, but you said will ramp later. At the last Analyst Day, as I recall, you talked about some
aspects of this, like two-thirds or three-quarters reduction in silicon carbide, and not using rare
earths in the motor, and perhaps other cost-downs. You also had this unboxed architecture that I
think you said would not be part of this sort of interim approach. Can you update us on what we
should expect this thing to actually look like?
A - `Lars Moravy, Vice President, Vehicle Engineering `
Oh, we won't get into the looks, because --
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
You're going to watch the Model Y. Just lift the cat out of the bag there, dancing cat that can sing
and dance, but it can talk and sing and dance, though. That's the cool part.
Yes, I mean, fundamentally, the biggest obstacle remains that people just don't have enough --
some people don't -- the desire to buy the car is very high. Just people don't have enoughmoney in their bank account to buy it. Literally, that is the issue. Not a lack of desire, but a lack of
ability. So, the more affordable we can make the car, the better.
I think it's going to be -- it will be a very big deal when people can release their car to the fleet
and have it earn money for them, which, like I said, I'm big -- I feel confident in saying that will
happen next year in the U.S., at least. In the U.S., we're legally allowed, appropriate disclaimers.
And that will make the affordability dramatically greater. Just like if you have an Airbnb and you
rent out your home when you're not there or rent out a guest room or guest house or something
like that, the affordability of your home is much greater.
Q - `William Stein, Truist Securities `
Okay. Trying another topic then. Can -- we see all these wonderful developments at xAI, like
Grok, and obviously Tesla's trying to do quite a bit in AI. Elon, how do you manage the division of
efforts and recruiting and talent and capital between these two that that seem like there's a very
high potential that they can in fact compete?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, they are doing different things here. So, the xAI is doing like terabyte-scale models and
multi-terabyte scale models. Tesla's 100x smaller models. So, once real-world AI and one's kind
of I guess, artificial super intelligence type of thing. The -- I mean, the really kind of the genesis
for xAI was that there were certain people, who simply would not join Tesla -- AI engineers,
because they wanted to work on ASI and they would join Tesla and I was like, well, maybe they'll
join a new company. And now I think the Tesla problem is extremely important, but not everyone
agrees with me on that.
And so, rather than have them join OpenAI or Google or whatever, some other company, it's like,
might as well have them create a company in that regard, right, which is xAI. So, that's -- and who
can make a decision, do they want to work on -- it's like super intelligence at data center or real-
world AIs. They're both compelling problems, but some people want to work in one, and some
want to work on the other, yeah.
A - `Travis Axelrod, Head of Investor Relations `
Great, and unfortunately, that is all the time we have today. Thank you, everyone, so much for
your questions, and we'll see you see next quarter.