Q1 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon and welcome to the Novartis Q1 2025 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) A
recording of the conference call including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly
after the call ends.
With that I would like to hand over to Ms.`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, madam.
`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Heidi. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our Q1 2025
earnings call. The information presented today contains forward-looking statements that involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. These may cause actual results to be
materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied
by such statements. For a description of some of these factors, please refer to the company's
Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly results on Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and
furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we get started, I just want to reiterate Heidi's guidance for our analysts. Please limit
yourselves to one question at a time and we'll cycle through the queue as many times as we can.
And with that, I will hand over to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Sloan, and thanks everyone for joining today's conference call. If we can move forward
to Slide 4, Novartis delivered double-digit sales growth in the quarter. A really strong start to the
year. We had robust margin expansion and that all supported an upgrade to our full year 2025
guidance which Harry will go through in more detail.
Sales were up 15%, core operating income up 27%. Our core margin reached 42.1%, up 400 basis
points. And we also had important innovation highlights in the quarter, some of which I'll go
through in detail in a moment. Pluvicto, Vanrafia, and Fabhalta all achieved approvals in their
relevant indications. We had a global submission for remibrutinib in CSU, and our OAV101 IT gene
therapy for patients with SMA older than two years of age had a positive readout and we're in
process now of filing that globally.
So taking together a very strong start to the year, and going into a little bit more detail starting on
Slide 5, we had strong growth momentum from all of our priority brands in the quarter, and I think
that really demonstrates the replacement power which gives us confidence in our midterm guide
of 5% plus and also our confidence that we have the levers that we need to continue to grow into
the 2030s. You can see strong growth of 32%, constant currency excluding Entresto, the portfolio
was up 38%.
And I wanted to go through on each of these key brands, some of the key highlights. So moving
to Slide 6.
So Kisqali grew 56% in constant currency, and that reflects our positioning globally, reflects our
positioning as the preferred CDK4/6 inhibitor in both metastatic and early breast cancer. You can
see that the growth was strong both outside of the United States and in the U.S. I'll go through
that in a bit more detail in a moment. In the central panel, you can see that our total brand NBRx
now is market-leading, trending very strongly, really powered by the early breast cancer launch,
which is leading to strong performance both in early breast cancer and metastatic breast cancer.
Now turning to each region, in the U.S., we were up 87% in the quarter. We have leading share in
metastatic NBRx now at 48%, and that's -- we're also now tied for TRx leadership, really
demonstrating now those NBRxs are impacting our TRx growth. In early breast cancer, our NBRx
grew 65%, and we reached a 60% NBRx share. And what's important to note here is 56% of that
volume, we estimate, is from the population that's exclusive to the Kisqali label.
Now outside of the U.S., we're still in the early stages of the early breast cancer launch. We were
up 24% in constant currency. We're the metastatic breast cancer leader in 10 of our top countries
with 46% share. Our NBRx share at 35% TRx share. And our early breast cancer indication has
now improved in the EU plus nine other countries.
Now I think you all know, we have strong guideline support with Category 1 NCCN Guidelines, and
we've also achieved very strong guidelines as well with ESMO. So overall, we're really pleased
with the performance of Kisqali as it continues to grow towards our peak sales guidance of $8
billion plus.
Now moving to Slide 7, Kesimpta grew 43% in constant currency, it's outpacing both the B-cell
and MS market. Our overall sales were robust both in the U.S. and ex-U.S. Markets. In the U.S., 41%
TRx growth, we're outpacing the B-cell and MS markets, as I mentioned, in the U.S. Outside of the
U.S., we have leading NBRx share in 8 out of 10 major markets, really reflecting the ease of use of
the medicine. We continue to generate further long-term data to support the profile of Kesimpta.
7-year data was presented at AAN, which reinforced the benefit-risk profile of the medicine.And as a reminder, we continue to believe the profile of Kesimpta was convenient. At-home self-
administration makes it the preferred medicine for patients who don't want to have IV
administration at a doctor's office. So I think that really positions us well outside the U.S. And in a
large segment inside the U.S., where there continues to be robust growth of B-cell therapies,
which we plan to participate in.
And moving to Slide 8, Pluvicto grew 21% in quarter one. And most importantly for us, we laid the
foundation -- continue to lay the foundation for our pre-taxane launch with the PSMAfore
population. When you look at some of the dynamics for Pluvicto, first with the post-taxane setting,
we have now leading NBRx share in the first line vision population setting. So post-taxane at 40%.
And this I think really demonstrates that we are getting strongly established in this post-taxane
population.
Now, when you look at some of the momentum we're seeing, we're seeing that we are gaining
traction in the community setting with 4,000 TRxs, that's 11% up for prior year. We also see
overall, I'd say, encouraging signs that more and more community practices want to take on
radioligand therapy. Outside of the U.S., we see continuous growth driven primarily by European
markets, which are increasingly adopting RLT and also with improved pricing that we're seeing in
key markets. And now with the expansion over 20 plus countries.
Now, most importantly for this brand, we had the March FDA approval of the PSMAfore
population, pre-taxane population. As a reminder, Pluvicto doubled the median PFS and had a
very favorable safety profile versus a daily oral ARPI. The final OS analysis for the medicine, when
unadjusted, for crossover was 0.91, but importantly, crossover adjusted was 0.59. And that's been
very well received in the community. And we already have NCCN guidelines support for the use
of Pluvicto in this setting. We're also continuing to advance our Pluvicto lifecycle management
efforts. The PSMA edition readout is on track for the second half of 2025. And as a reminder, the
PSMA edition incidence is similar to that we see in the pre-taxane setting.
So moving to Slide 9, just a little bit more on our preparations for the PSMAfore launch in the U.S.
We have a strong foundation in place. 620 sites open, large population now that we've expanded
into. A pre-filled syringe that's enabling broad adoption is now nationally launched. A 50% of
PSMAfore patients are treated by HCPs who've already prescribed in the vision population. And
we're also continuing to increase and have increased our promotional spend. We've doubled our
field force and are maintaining a very robust direct-to-consumer advertising campaign.
Now in terms of the launch dynamics we expect to see, it would take about four to seven weeks
of lead time for new patients to be treated, for them to get the necessary scans as well as the
necessary laboratory tests to be able to receive the medicine. We expect initial uptake to be
driven by depth in our established accounts in the vision setting. And also, we expect to, over
time, expand our breadth in the community and urology setting. So -- and as I mentioned, we also
have the favorable NCCN guidelines. So I think set up well, this will really be a second-half story,
and really in the next few months, we want to ensure we start to build the momentum that will
allow this brand now to break through past the $2 billion mark and then forward to the $4 billion-
plus guidance that we've given.
Now, moving to Slide 10. Leqvio grew 72% in the quarter, on track to achieve blockbuster status.
We have the steady march upwards that we're very pleased with. We're seeing solid growth both
in the U.S. and ex-U.S. We see a steady climb in monthly TRxs. It's 70% up versus prior year, and
that's growth across all of the key channels we're targeting. We're also seeing increasing depth in
the priority systems that we're trying to establish the medicine in. That's up 51% versus prior year.We've also evolved our field operating model to better serve physicians and systems that would
like to use Leqvio to manage their patients to goal for cholesterol lowering.
Outside of the U.S., we're seeing robust growth across our key markets, 74% growth. I would
want to highlight the solid pricing and access we've secured in Japan, as well as the continued
out-of-pocket expansion we're seeing in China, which I think bodes well for the future of this
medicine in Asia.
We know there's a significant runway ahead of us. Only about 2% of secondary prevention
patients receive any advanced lipid-lowering therapy. And there's increasing guideline
recommendations that recommend these patients receive advanced lipid-lowering therapy. So a
big market opportunity, and step-by-step, we're on track to fully realize the potential of this
medicine.
Moving to Slide 11, now Scemblix, as you know, has established itself as a leader in the third-line
plus setting. And now, our focus has switched to really establishing the medicine in earlier lines,
given our recent approvals. Now, in the third-line setting, we are up at 54% NBRx share. We're 3x
higher than the next competitor, reflecting the excellent profile of Scemblix. Outside of the U.S.,
in key markets, 68% in Japan and 47% in Germany for NBRx share, and an overall share of 47%.
So I think really well positioned now in the third-line setting.
So our focus has shifted to driving our performance in earlier lines. We see continued momentum
in the U.S. We have a very strong start building off the NCCN guidelines for a Category 1
preferred recommendation. We have 54% of commercial lives covered now to label. We're
seeing expanding prescriber drafts, 16% for prior quarter, and a strong uptake in second line,
where we've already achieved 40% share, and steady progress as well in first line, where we
have 10% NBRx share. And as a reminder, we are, of course, working against generic imatinib and
generic second-generation TKIs. But we feel confident that step-by-step, we'll continue to be
able to take significant share from those medicines. Our early-line approvals are on track globally.
We have already approval in 10 countries, and our submission is now completed in Europe.
So moving to Slide 12 and turning to Cosentyx, Cosentyx grew 18% on the quarter. It was driven
by both our launches in HS and IV, but also, importantly, very good performance in our core
indications. In the U.S., we saw a strong demand growth, 29%, more than offsetting the expected
impact of the Part D redesign. Our NBRx volume is outperforming the market in our core
indications, 15% versus the market in psoriasis, 12% in spondyloarthropathies, and we also have
continued NBRx leadership in HS at 53%, even in the face of a new competitor entry.
Now, when you look at the IV formulation, we have 1,900 accounts using the medicine. That's a
13% growth. I think it's still early stages for the IV launch, but we're confident that step-by-step,
now that we have the relevant reimbursement and support in place, that the IV launch can also
accelerate over the years to come. Outside the U.S., we delivered 15% volume growth, mainly in
the core indications. We're the leading originator biologic now in Europe and China, and we've
also achieved now HS reimbursement across our key markets.
So taken together, we're confident in continued growth. We are on track to get the Phase 3
readouts in both GCA and PMR, and we're also well-prepared to launch in those indications when
and if approved.
Now, moving to Slide 13. And now turning to Entresto, which continues to have strong
performance at 22% growth, you can see here on the quarter, reaching over $2.2 billion in global
sales. We expect continued growth in the U.S. up until LoE. And we continue to guide to a mid-have a very strong guideline position. We have balanced geographic sales with 50% of our sales
outside of the U.S. We expect RDP protection in Europe to November 2026, and also, of course,
we'll continue to pursue other avenues to fully protect the medicine in Europe, June 2030 in
Japan with possible additional protections as well. And I would say that the hypertension
indication is performing extremely well in China and Japan, and the possibility for that to drive our
growth towards through the end of the decade is something we'll continue to remain focused on.
Now, moving to Slide 14, I do want to say a word about our Renal portfolio. As you know, we've
been building out a strong Renal portfolio around the globe. We have the ongoing launch now of
Fabhalta and the recent approval of Vanrafia. When you look at Fabhalta, our IgAN, we've already
seen 100% volume growth and 60% increase in writers versus the prior quarter. I think that
reflects the excitement around the impact that medicine could have for these patients. We have
over 90% of patients remaining on treatment out of five months. We have 68% commercial
coverage to label. And in C3G, while we're only improved in March, we already see positive signs
over 2,000 physicians are REM certified, and that's applicable across both indications.
Now Vanrafia, it was approved by FDA in April, once a day, non-steroidal oral treatment. What's
exciting about this medicine is, on the -- from an efficacy standpoint, can be seamlessly added on
to existing RAS inhibitors that a patient may be on without any discontinuation needed. But also
importantly, there was no REMs for the label for hepatotoxicity or pregnancy. So a nice clean label
as well, which was the business case for this medicine. So we really have now a safe, effective
oral medicine to be given for the management of the endothelium in the kidney with this
medicine.
So overall, we're driving strong synergies across this portfolio, and our aspiration will be to
continue to build out the strength of our Renal pipeline to really ensure we can establish
ourselves as a long-term Renal leader.
And moving to Slide 15, I did want to say a word about the OAV101 IT gene therapy readout that
we had in the quarter. So looking at the left-hand part of the slide, you can see the primary
endpoint was achieved in patients 2 to 18 years of age. But I wanted to focus in on the patients 5
to 18 years of age, particularly given that Zolgensma has been in the market for some period of
time. The treatment effect versus placebo of 2.45 is really very strong, and I think differentiating
versus the competition and positions us well, we believe, to get both hopefully the approval and
ultimately payer support for the use of this one-time therapy in patients 5 to 18 years of age.
And so we're excited about the STEER and STRENGTH studies, the overall favorable safety
profiles we've been able to deliver with the medicine. And as I mentioned, we're on track for
global regulatory submissions over the course of the first half of 2025.
So moving to the next slide, also from a clinical data standpoint, we did have long-term data on
Remibrutinib in CSU, which we think further supports the differentiated profile of the medicine.
Strong efficacy was maintained out to 52 weeks, even as the placebo group crossed over onto
active 25-milligrams BID. You can see the meaningful improvements in symptom control across all
measures. But I think really importantly that symptom control starts as early as week one in a
highly symptomatic disease where itch can lead to disruption in quality of life, in quality of sleep.
Patients want something that will hopefully impact their disease very soon after initiating a
therapy.
We also had a very favorable safety profile in the dataset, including balanced LFTs. I can say that
in our mid-cycle review, we did not receive any questions from FDA with respect to the liver
profile of the medicine. So I think in CSU, that bodes well for the profile of remibrutinib. Wecontinue to achieve our key milestones. We had the New England Journal of Medicine publication.
We've completed submissions now in the U.S., EU, and China. We've initiated a head-to-head
study versus dupilumab with a readout expected in 2027, where we'll focus very much on the
speed of onset of action of remibrutinib.
And we continue to advance a full range of indications. Our Phase 3 in chronic inducible urticaria is
ongoing and targeted for our 2026 submission. We've initiated our HS Phase 3 study. We also
have Phase 2a/b studies ongoing for food allergy with a readout expected in the second half of
this year. And as you all know, at a higher dose, we also are looking at, in neuroscience, at
relapsing MS, as well as myasthenia gravis. So the next milestone for us will be an FDA decision
on CSU in the second half of the year.
So moving to Slide 17, take it all together, are on track for our innovation milestones for the year. I
will continue to keep you updated as we continue to get readouts. But importantly as well, the
progress on our early and mid-stage pipeline, which we believe will generate the replacement
power to enable us to grow strongly into the next decade.
So with that, I'll hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thank you, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon, everybody. I will now talk you through our
financials for the first quarter, which reflect a very strong start to the year. As always, my
comments refer to growth rates and constant currencies unless otherwise noted.
So starting on page number 19, net sales grew 15% in quarter one versus prior year and core-
operating income grew 27%. Our core margin was 42%, reflecting a 400 basis points
improvement driven by the excellent sales growth and good cost management. Core earnings
per share was $2.28, up 31%, and free cash flow was $3.4 billion. Now, just to note, gross to net
favorability, mainly in the U.S., added about 2 percent points to growth in quarter one, from gross
to net true-ups, based on invoices related to prior quarters in 2024. So the underlying growth in
quarter one was still a very strong 13%.
On the next slide, just a focus -- short focus on free cash flow, which was up 66% in U.S. dollars.
And this is, of course, a continued area of focus for us. Our very strong ability to turn excellent
core-operating income growth into great free cash flow provides of course ample capacity to
reinvest in the business, pursue bolt-on deals, and return capital to shareholders via growing
dividends and share buybacks.
Speaking of capital allocation, next slide, please. Yes. We remain committed to our shareholder-
friendly capital allocation strategy which optimizes both investing in the business and returning
capital to shareholders. So we continue to invest in R&D and CapEx and pursue of course also
value-creating bolt-on M&A and BD&L deals. For example, we recently announced a five-year $23
billion investment into our U.S.-based manufacturing and R&D footprint and we also closed the
acquisition of Anthos Therapeutics in April.
In terms of returning capital to shareholders, we paid $7.8 billion in dividends in March and April of
this year and continued our up to $15 billion share buyback in quarter one, which has
approximately $2.7 billion left to be executed over the next months.
Moving to Slide 22. So our continued strong business momentum combined with the growth to
net favorability mainly in the U.S. allowed us to raise our full-year guidance to the upper end of
the prior provided range for both top and bottom line. So we now expect sales to grow highsingle digit, up from mid-to-higher single digit and we expect core-operating income to grow low
double digit, up from high single to low double digit.
Embedded in our guidance is the continued financial planning assumption that Tasigna, Promacta
and Entresto would have U.S. generic entries occurring mid of this year. And to complete our full-
year guidance please note that we continue to expect core net financial expenses to be around
$1 billion, and our core tax rate to be in the range of 16% to 16.5%. So no change versus what we
said end of January.
Now to my final slide already, where we have outlined details regarding the expected currency
impact. If late April rates would prevail for the remainder of 2025, we would expect a full-year
currency impact to be neutral on net sales and negative 2 percentage points on core operating
income. As a reminder, we provide an estimated impact on exchange -- of exchange rates on our
results on a monthly basis on our website, which I hope is useful to you especially in times of a bit
more volatility lately.
So with that, back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So in conclusion on Slide 25, strong start to the year with double-digit sales
growth, robust core margin expansion, strong core operating income growth, strong free cash
flow generation. Given that strong start, we've upgraded our guidance for the full year. I think
importantly, significant pipeline progress.
In quarter one, we had three new approvals in a span of three weeks that we believe can
generate important growth for the company. And we remain confident, even with the
uncertainties of the geopolitical environment in achieving our mid to long-term growth outlook, as
we've outlined previously.
So with that, I think we can open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will take our first question. And your first question comes
from the line of `Simon Baker, Redburn and Atlantic Equities from Redburn Atlantic. Go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn and Atlantic Equities `
Thank you for taking my questions. Two, if I may, please. Firstly, on the issue of tariffs. Vas, most
of your peers have led their quarterly presentations this time with tariffs, and the impact, and the
correlation between where drugs are made, where they're sold. And you chose not to. So I just
wondered if you could give us some thoughts on the tariff exposure as you see it now.
And related to that, given it's a few weeks since it was published, I wonder if you could give us
some feedback on your letter with Paul Hudson to the FT. And then secondly, on -- for Harry, on
the gross to net positive impact of 2 percentage points, could you give us any more color on
precisely where that was disproportionately landing? I'm assuming it wasn't equally distributed
across the portfolio. So a little bit of color at the drug level would be very helpful there. Thanks so
much.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Simon. So first on tariffs, I think as Harry noted and we noted earlier today as well, our
guidance fully accounts for any potential tariffs that we've modeled or scenarios that we expect in
this year and in the medium-term guidance. We've taken, I think, appropriate actions with
inventory levels, and in terms of managing our supply chain to enable us to feel comfortable we
can manage it this year and in the medium term.
As you also saw with our $23 billion investment, our goal in the coming years is to have 100% of
our key U.S. products fully produced end-to-end in the U.S. and we're on track to do that. So we
think it's manageable and not something that we need to highlight with respect to our financial
outlook. Hence, we don't place a lot of emphasis on it. This is something we've been working on
since January and we feel good about where we are.
Now, with respect to the letter on EU properly rewarding supporting innovation, we believe there
is an opportunity right now, given the deliberations at the European Commission, on how to
maintain a competitive environment for the biopharmaceutical industry to hopefully make the
Commission consider doing something more proactive to ensure that we have a better
environment in Europe. Clearly, prices in Europe have continued to decline, no longer reflecting
the innovation that we deliver. The combination of capping market growth, penalizing new
indications, low prices at launch has really led to 30% of medicines not being launched in Europe
or being delayed in Europe. That number will only grow over time.
So as an industry, I think this is something we're taking up. We've put forward three ideas on how
we could potentially address the situation, maybe other ideas as well. And we're hopeful that the
European Commission will take it up and will stay determined to educate policymakers at the
country level and at the commission level to really address the situation.
Now, with respect to gross net, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thank you. Thanks, Simon, for the question. Obviously, we continue to monitor. As you know,
this is due to invoice we get six to nine months late sometimes. We try to always be on the
midpoint based on latest information we get. And again, we got a bit lower Medicaid utilization
and more favorable channel mix, which gives prior period adjustment. I mentioned the two points
of impact, but of course also informs us about future. So also, when we come to the upgrade, it's
not only the prior period gross to net, it's also better revenue deduction outlook for a year to go,
if you will, for the future, as well as continued very good brand performance. And I think as Carly
[ph] and many see fantastic performance there.
Now, in terms of brand -- it's really across many brands. So I don't want to call out one brand. It's
not distorting growth rates very much. It's in this range of 1% to 4% or something like that. So it's
not worth mentioning a single product. It's quite broad-based.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Simon. And just as a reminder --
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn and Atlantic Equities `
Okay. Thank you.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
If the colleagues on the call could limit yourself to one question. Thank you very much. Next
question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. We will take the next question. Your next question comes from the line of Graham
Parry from Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. So it's just follow-up on tariffs actually there, Vas. So your
guidance -- so your mid-term guidance focuses on revenue and margin. Obviously, Novartis is
one of the companies that has a lower global tax rate, because of the booking profits in
Switzerland. It looks like from the reported accounts to just 16.5% and that's obviously quite a long
way below U.S. corporate rates.
So when you're talking about factoring this into your guidance, is that also factoring in the
potential for any actions on transfer pricing or IP, patent boxes, et cetera, which would impact on
tax rates as well? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Graham. So we feel very confident in our tax rate, in our tax planning, in our transfer pricing.
All of that is very robust, right? From that standpoint, we are at the moment in the 16% or 16.5%.
This already includes Pillar 2, a 15% minimum in -- for example, Switzerland. So all of that, we feel,
is very robust. And of course, I don't want to talk about others, but overall, all of this is also OECD
conform. So from that standpoint, I believe that our tax rate will be in that range of 16% to 7% as a
core tax rate.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I think, Graham, of course, we don't know. We're monitoring the situation. If the government
were to -- the U.S. government were to take more extreme actions, we'd, of course, have to
reevaluate. But based on everything we're hearing, we believe we can manage the policies that
have been put forward thus far and so feel confident in the position we have.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you very much for taking my question. Maybe a question on Pluvicto. Just firstly, a
clarification. I think you mentioned earlier $4 billion ultimate peak sales ambition. But if I recall
correctly, last year you provided us with $5 billion numbers. I just want to confirm if that hadchanged or that was just a typo. And then just talk to us a little bit about the confidence on the H2
PSMAfore inflection. Is that really based on confidence that you're going to transcend this
community referrals bottleneck? Is it actually expanding the number of sites that will be capable
of administering therapy? If you could provide a little bit more color there, that would be
extremely helpful. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Emmanuel. My apologies. It is still $5 billion-plus. I misspoke. So with respect to
Pluvicto and the dynamics that we're seeing, I think within the academic centers and large
integrated health centers that already are well set up, we expect to see a rapid uptake. I mean, in
these accounts -- these are accounts that are familiar with the medicine. They have capacity. They
do need to staff up, but we believe that's within their reach. And those are the accounts where
we expect to see initial rapid uptake of the medicine. And that will drive, I think, the second-half
performance.
I think to reach at the full potential within the PSMAfore population and the PSMA addition
population, we're going to have to continue to expand, not only the number of centers, but
getting many of those centers to increase the volume of patients that they're seeing. So we
would estimate of the centers that we've gotten set up, about half of those centers are using
Pluvicto at a target rate in terms of the number of patients they're actually able -- they're actually
processing through their clinic. And the remaining 300 we need to get up, we need to get up to
a higher level of utilization, and then we also need to expand the number of sites.
That's going to be some combination of getting comfort with use of the medicine, hence we roll
out the pre-filled syringe, use with referral networks, and adequate capacity as well for the
imaging, which we're working through as well. We've reorganized our field force to enable easier
referrals, but also to hopefully better align with where imaging capacity is. And I think that'll be
really important as well. And then of course, we're continuing to promote the medicine to
patients and physicians so they understand the strong data set that we have. I mentioned the
unadjusted OS and the adjusted OS, both of which I think have given confidence to experts that
the medicine has the opportunity to have a significant impact on these patients.
So each one of those activities is ongoing. And I think this is important for us, not only obviously
because of Pluvicto, but also given the broader radioligand therapy portfolio that we're
developing. We're now entering the clinic with multiple RLTs in rapid succession, targets such as
FAP, fibroblast activation protein, targets like HER2, B7H3, DLL3, all of these targets now entering
the clinic. And for that -- those medicines to be successful, we know we need to build out this
community capacity, and hence, a big focus for the company to figure this out.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Very helpful, thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.Q - `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. Just a quick follow-up on Pluvicto. In
the U.S., when you said that 50% of the sellers are not using Pluvicto at a target rate. Is it -- what's
the main pushback from these sellers? Is it just they need more convenience, so pre-filled syringe
would help, or other any color on this front would be helpful? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think it's a combination of things, Florent. I think one is, of course, once you have a patient
treated to ensure you have adequate reimbursement and then see the process ultimately work. I
think second, continuing to educate on the staffing needs and to be ahead of the curve in order
to get patients treated. And then I think the referral networks and making sure the referral
networks are operative so that patients are referred to locations where Pluvicto is available. I think
these are all surmountable challenges. I think we've already made tremendous progress each 6-
month period in terms of expanding the reach of the medicine. And I remember a few quarters
ago we were at 100 or 150 centers providing the medicine, and now we're at multiples higher
than that.
So I think we're getting there step by step, but of course for each account it is a puzzle that we
need to solve. We've mapped that out geographically. We were reordering our field force to
match to that mapping, and then we just have to, I think, stay consistent. When I look at
corollaries, you think about how long it took chemotherapy long ago to ultimately roll out. We
know these things take time, but once you establish them into the standard of care, they stick.
And that's the mindset we're taking, consistent investment over time to make it stick, given the
portfolio that we have that we're bringing forward.
Next question, Operator.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein `
Thank you very much. Very clear.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas Exane from BNP Paribas Exane.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas Exane `
Yes, thanks, `Peter Verdult, BNP Paribas Exane, Exane. Just one question for you, Vas, on ianalumab in Sjogren's. I
mean, the feedback from the docs is positive, but we know that there are no systemic treatment
options to offer patients. It just seems from the feedback we're getting that replicating that
Phase 2 data you presented earlier will be enough to get the community excited. So I just wanted
to check in on your latest thoughts ahead of that readout and how you're seeing the commercial
opportunity? If we were to compare it to something like Cosentyx and HS, do you see Sjogren's
ianalumab being that sort of similar size or even bigger? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think we see ianalumab being a very significant medicine, if successful. I think clearly with
Sjogren's having no approved systemic therapies and given the size of the patient population,
there's an opportunity here to create a significant medicine. We haven't guided to specificnumbers yet, but I think certainly $2 billion potential medicine is what we would expect in just the
Sjogren's indication.
Now I think it -- but that, I think, goes without saying that this will be a challenge with respect to,
one, when you look at this disease, it's a heterogeneous disease, hence the endpoint here, the
SI endpoint, is a challenging endpoint. We've done everything we can in the design of the study
to ensure that we control for placebo effects, that we power appropriately with the appropriate
statistical analysis hierarchy, that we've included FDA-requested patient-reported outcomes,
which I think will also be important for physicians. We've done all of the steps needed to really
give ourselves the best chance. And I think also it's going to be important to have impact not only
on composite endpoints like (inaudible), but also very specific areas that patients care about,
saliva production, fatigue et cetera.
So I think each one of these elements of the story have to ultimately tie together. And then I
think, the opportunity then is significant given that we're targeting patients here with systemic
manifestations of the disease. So patients that clearly are having this impact their daily lives. And
if we can demonstrate that we move the needle for patient, patient quality of life, we would
expect a very significant medicine. So we're excited about the readout. Hopefully, we can
replicate what we saw in Phase 2b, but we fully also acknowledge that this is a high-risk study that
we have to deliver on.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, J P Morgan from J P Morgan. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, J P Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. A question on Scemblix, please. The growth on prescriptions is
very stunning, but revenue growth is a bit below that. So just wondering whether you're having to
rebate more heavily to generate first-line volume, or we could see an uptick later on this year in
terms of Scemblix more towards the prescriptions. Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We've looked into this a bit. And I think one of the things we're seeing is when we look at the
IQVIA data set versus what our internal data sets would show, our internal data sets would show
73%, and TRx growth of Scemblix versus prior year, and that ties to the 75% net sales growth. So
very much in line. We know IQVIA is showing a higher number. We think this might have to do with
the nature of a rare disease product that's not flowing fully through only the pharmacy, but also
through a specialty distribution chain. So I think that's the key difference. It has more to do with
channels than anything underlying the performance.
I think most important for us is that we're seeing strong growth in the second-line and first-line
indications. We have the reimbursement in place. We have the NCCN guidelines. And now we
think that the growth should accelerate in the first and second line. And we think this medicine, as
has a very significant potential that we plan to fully realize.
Thank you, Richard. Next question, operator.
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you for taking my question. I've got a question on pelacarsen competitiveness. So
last month, Lilly put out Phase 2 data demonstrating 94% reduction in Lp(a) at the highest dose
with 180 day administration interval. The Phase 3 will clearly come off the Horizon, and we need
to see that to really sort of see where the competitive landscape will move. But with data
emerging for competitors with longer dosing intervals, how does this impact your view on the
competitiveness and/or your launch strategy for pelacarsen assuming positive Horizon data? And
does this also increase the need to accelerate development of your own 6-monthly or longer-
acting LP(a) option? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, James. Certainly, we're watching the competitive landscape, but our core focus right
now is to deliver on the Phase 3 trial, and then accelerate towards a launch, and hopefully
establish ourselves as the first-in-class therapy and building the -- on our global cardiovascular
presence with the monthly dosing, really get a broad base of patients on therapy. And we
acknowledge the fact that there could be competitors coming down the line with quarterly
dosing, and we'll see what the clinical data ultimately shows for that medicine. And then 6-
monthly dosing, as you mentioned, later in the decade.
But we feel confident that Pelacarsen can have a very significant outlook with its current profile. I
would note as well, when we look at the recently published study that the investigators published
on the baseline characteristics of the Horizon study, you see a situation where the median level of
LP(a) was around 108. We had 80% of patients above 90. So I think that shows that we've
enrolled a high-risk patient population in the study, which hopefully gives confidence that if the
modeled performance of the drug ultimately -- and the modeled impact of LP(a) reductions
ultimately bears out, that we have a good chance to win on the study when it fully reads out.
I would say as well, we do have multiple efforts ongoing to get to less frequently dose siRNAs or
ASOs. Those could be as far out as -- out to one year is certainly the goal we're trying to get to
annual dosing. So we would have the opportunity to establish ourselves in the market with a
monthly dose therapy and then life cycle managed into a much less frequently dosed medicine
that we'll be looking to hopefully bring to market at the end of the decade or the early part of the
2030s.
Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Cool. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question. Operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Thibault Boutherin, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Thibault Boutherin, Morgan Stanley `Thank you very much. I just have a question on the new Phase 3 study you started with Kesimpta
in the new dosing regimen. Is it extending injection interval? Is it exploring higher dose for more
efficacy? Because it's quite late in the life cycle of the drug. So I'm just trying to understand the
goal here. And could it be something potentially helping with IP duration, for example?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Thibault. When -- this is an effort for us to increase in the dosing interval of Kesimpta
before the end of the life cycle of the medicine. I think when we look now at the competitiveness
of Kesimpta, given the situation with competitors not fully achieving their goals, I think we have an
opportunity to continue to extend this franchise longer. So we're looking at infrequent dosing. We
also have other internal efforts ongoing. We believe that Kesimpta can be a mainstay of B-cell
therapy for an extended period of time, given its convenience at home dosing, which is I think
convenient for patients around the globe.
We continue to pursue a BTK inhibitor, remibrutinib as well in MS, but we of course are cognizant
of the fact that we do have four studies that have not shown an impact on RMS to-date from
competitor products. So we would characterize that as not still a high-risk opportunity, but given
the overall competitive landscape, we want to ensure now that we fully life cycle Kesimpta. We
currently don't believe we would face biosimilars in the United States until the early part of the
2030s. So we believe there's time to develop these alternative formulations.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, UBS from UBS. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you. It's a question for Harry, please. Harry, in the 4Q slide deck earlier this year, there was
a very prominent slide on the first half, second-half dynamics in the year, especially around
profitability. It's absent in today's slides. Is that because you're expecting less of a sharp contrast
in first half, second half? Now you've seen the launch of Kisqali and continued growth of
Kesimpta, or is it just that you decided not to include it today?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
We just wanted to see if you notice. No. Kidding. But no, thank you, Matthew. So obviously the
one-time effect of the growth to net for prior period that is reflected in the current quarter. And
then there are a couple of other effects that give us further confidence and contribute to the
overall full-year upgrade. And one is that with this, there should be also better growth to net
going forward. We adjusted our assumptions. We always learn every quarter. Of course, we are
fully modeled in and accrued for the Medicare Part D redesign, which you already see part of Q1.
And the second, the other contributor is of course, very good growth performance overall.
So clearly, and therefore, I see both half one being better than what the outlook, but also half
two, right? Where half two, I mentioned, low to mid-single digit. We now would see the half-two
to be in the mid-single-digit range, given these two improvements of more favorable growth to
net ongoing, as well as better than expected performance on some brands.
So hope that answers your question, but we can happily add that slide back if it's very helpful.the U.S. As a financial planning assumption plays out or if we would have updates for you. But of
course, the moment we would know, we will inform you. Therefore, for the time being, we
recommend that, that continues to be the financial planning assumption for everybody.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. Thanks, Matthew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you for taking the question. On votoplam, please. Are you still on track to release that
Phase 2 data in the first half of this year? And do you see the potential to file and secure an
approval in Huntington from that data alone? Or should we assume a Phase 3 study is likely to be
required? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Kerry. As you know, votoplam is currently being the Phase 2 studies being conducted
by PTC. So we do expect the readout in the first half of this year. And I think when we see the
data, we'll have a better sense of -- if on top of mutant Huntington protein reduction, we also see
improvements in clinical endpoints, which would be, I think, needed for us to be able to file with
FDA. So I think based on the data, we'll work with our partners at PTC to determine what's the
right approach, whether to file off of that Phase 2b or to move forward to conduct a pivotal Phase
3 study.
So stay tuned. I think we'll obviously know more once we have a look at the data. And of course,
we're staying abreast of the evolving kind of mindset within FDA, and certainly, what other
competitors are doing as well. So we'll see how the data unfolds.
Next question, Operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Seamus Christopher Fernandez from
Guggenheim. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim Securities `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question. So really just wanted to ask about value-creating bolt-ons and
areas of focus for BD, in particular, if you see opportunities for lifecycle management via BD
around your hypertension and heart failure portfolio, particularly given the upcoming loss of
Entresto in the U.S., but the robust opportunity for Entresto in overseas markets. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Seamus. So nothing specific to say. I mean, we feel very good about our
cardiovascular pipeline overall. We have, of course, Entresto, Leqvio, Pelacarsen. We have our
entire Renal portfolio. We recently did the Anthos acquisition to get Abema [ph], the monoclonal
antibody for anticoagulation into the portfolio. We have a broad range of siRNAs targetingSo all of those programs are proceeding, and also in antiarrhythmics portfolio. So I think we of
course are looking across the board, the opportunities out from a bolt-on standpoint, but don't
particularly focus on cardiovascular medicines at this time.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities from TD Securities. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen Securities `
Thank you so much. Novartis has among the fewest manufacturing plants in the U.S. in the
industry. But did announce the $23 billion program to expand the U.S. footprint. The question is
how much of that $23 billion build-out to the footprint will be complete in -- by 2028. It seems that
such a profound pivot could be a less-than-ideal decision if the views in the U.S. were different in
four years. If instead it was an inevitable pivot regardless of the U.S. President, then why didn't it
start sooner? And related to this, you said Novartis can manage plans put forward in the U.S. so
far. Does that include most favored nation legislation? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. So on point one, I think we would acknowledge, I think we could have done this
earlier. I mean this is a strategic decision to say that U.S. is our most important single market from
a growth and revenue standpoint, and we want to be in a position to be able to produce all of
our key medicines end-to-end in the U.S. And so I think we -- you're right, we should have
recognized it sooner, but now we have recognized, and I think independent of who's President,
it's prudent for us to be able to have our supply chain stable inside the United States.
We do have a number of medicines already fully produced in the U.S. Cell and Gene, our Leqvio,
Kesimpta, our gene therapies, Pluvicto, and then the other relevant therapies we believe within
this period of time we can get the necessary manufacturing plants up and running given our
footprint that we already have in certain locations to manage this. But it is a strategic decision
independent of the President to make sure that we have that capacity inside the United States.
Now in terms of most favored nations, of course, I think if this policy, which I think would be
devastating to the industry, was ultimately put forward in any kind of meaningful way, it would
cause, I think all companies have to relook at their long-term -- medium to long-term outlook. It
goes without saying. But I think it's really important that we keep advocating that the United
States should not import European price controls and the European anti-innovation or challenging
innovation environment into the United States. I don't think that will serve patients well, serve
healthcare systems well, and the biotechnology ecosystem well. And that's certainly what we're
advocating for.
Rather, the focus should be to correct the imbalances that have occurred in Europe over the last
decades, and hopefully get a better environment in Europe that's more competitive with the
United States.
Next question, operator.
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities from Bank of America. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Great. Thanks for my taking my follow-up. Excuse me. So first of all, just on Pluvicto and PSMA
Edition. Just wondered, when you get the PFS primary endpoint read, roughly what proportion of
overall survival events you think you'd have and whether that will be sufficient for filing, just given
you need more OS data on PSMAfore.
And then, actually, I just wanted to follow up on Harry's comment on Entresto. I think, because
Vas, I think you were quoted on the WIRES this morning saying expect generic Entresto in July.
Harry still refers to that as a modeling assumption. So could we still see some flex in that? Is there
potential for a 918 patent ruling or a settlement there that could see this bumped into 2026 in
the scenarios that you see? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Graham. So first, on Pluvicto-PSMA Edition. So at the time of the RPFS output, difficult
to say exactly, but we would expect OS in the range, the OS events in the range of 40% to 60%,
something in that range overall. And I think our view is that we would maintain the study blind and
then, with a small group, review the data set with FDA to ensure that FDA felt like the OS is
sufficient at that point in time, assuming the study is positive for us to take it forward. And if they
inform us, it's not the case, then we'll maintain the study blind so as not to inadvertently change
the rate of crossover in the study. So that's the approach we're currently taking on PSMA Edition.
Now, with respect to Entresto, there are multiple cases ongoing, so we have two generic filers
that we have not settled with. We do have the ongoing patent litigation on the amorphous
complex patent, which is pending. We have the ongoing trade dress litigation as well with MSN.
We have the ongoing litigation with the FDA on whether the approvals are valid. So all of these
litigations are ongoing. And at any point in time, any of those litigations could shift our
perspective on the mid-2025 LOE.
But I think until we hear from any of those cases, the most prudent course for us is to maintain a
mid-'25 LOE, and if it changes, of course, we'll immediately update the markets and then update
our outlook accordingly.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Okay. So just to be clear, that's based on litigation outcome as opposed to settlement that you're
referring to, potential for it to move?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
It could be litigation outcome or settlement, all of the above are things we're working on.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Hello. Just a quick follow-up for me, given that European prices have been mentioned a couple of
times. So how -- what is the politician's view on this at the moment? Is it seen as a problem or do
you have some support from some European politicians about addressing the innovation
imbalance that you see between Europe and the U.S.? And have any negotiations or discussions
started or are we still at a standing start, and hence, the reason for your letter? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, James. There is a letter from FP to the European Commission, which I think has been
published publicly, which I think outlined some of the topics, but not the specific
recommendations that Paul and I put forward in the FC. But I think that was a response to a
request from the European Commission to understand how the innovation environment in
Europe can ensure that they retain their leading biotechnology sector, biotechnology
manufacturing, biopharmaceutical R&D. I think a lot of the focus right now is in streamlining
regulations, which are welcome, streamlining and improving regulatory data protection also
welcome, strengthening overall support for the biotech ecosystem, venture capital, et cetera, all
welcome as well.
But I think, we as an industry, and at least some of the CEOs strongly believe that this also should
be an opportunity to rethink the overall approach to valuing innovation in the European
Commission -- in the European community. And I think that's what we're trying to focus on. I can't
really comment on whether or not those -- that is being viewed as something that will be taken
up by the Commission. That's not something they've communicated back to us, but it's certainly
something we're advocating for both at the Commission level and with individual countries
around Europe as well.
Q - `James Quigley, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Thibault Boutherin, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Thibault Boutherin, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you. Your press release mentioned a litigation with a drug manufacturer for a generic of
Lutathera. Just if you could help us understand what generic would look like with radioligand in
terms of the type of price discount, any challenges a potential generic maker could face in terms
of penetration, super challenges, this kind of things?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yes. So first I think on generics and RLT, this is not something where there is, we believe, an
adequate or clear regulatory standard. So while one topic is, does any proposed generic infringe
on our IP, which is what the litigation is referring to. Separate from that, we have filed citizens
petitions and continue to advocate with regulators around the world to clarify what is expected of
a radioligand therapy and that it should absolutely be held to the standard of ensuring patients
and the tumor is receiving an equivalent dose of radiation to ensure efficacy and appropriate
safety. So that's all, I think, also ongoing.
And then a third question is the supply chain and can a potential generic manufacturer produce
the medicine in a way that doesn't also infringe on our patents in terms of production and know-
how in terms of production, but also in a way that reliably provides these medicines to patients,
given that you have a four-day, three to five-day window, depending on the medicine, to actually
get it to physicians. And as we've learned, it's absolutely critical to be on time and full. And
Novartis right now is 99.9% on time and full for our radioligand therapy business. And that's the
standard I think physicians expect and that any generic company would also have to meet.
So I think those are the three levels of the ongoing discussion, and I think it'll take years to
resolve, but it'll be important because these standards will ultimately be what defines the sector
in the longer run.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, UBS from UBS. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you. I'd love to go back to Graham's question on tax, Harry. On the Astra call, Pascal was
prepared to say that he believes Astra pays a fair amount of tax in the U.S. relative to the sales
booked in the U.S. and the total tax paid by the company. There's been a lot of discussion in the
past as to how Novartis pays tax in the U.S., some of it before your time. So I'd just be interested
if you're comfortable saying the same thing from a Novartis perspective.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Of course, we pay in every jurisdiction. We do business, our fair and proper amount of taxes. And
by the way, we don't have any offshore balance sheet structure. So from that standpoint, we are
very confident in our tax planning and very robust.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Perfect. Many thanks indeed.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Matthew. Next question, operator.
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities from Bank of America. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Great, thanks. Last one, I promise. So just wanted to follow up actually, Vas, on the -- to qualify the
comment you said about MFN being devastating for the industry, I think the word you used, if it is
implemented. But when you say devastating, are you talking about MFN being imposed across
both government and commercial setting, or do you see that just an imposition across Medicare,
Medicaid, would actually have that level of impact? I think that's an important clarification, thank
you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, absolutely. Look, of course, the devil's in the details with these things. I think MFN, as
previously conceived, is limited to Part B drugs. For Novartis, it's highly manageable. If it's MFN in
Medicare Part B and Part D, but we no longer have to pay rebates and a number of other
discounts disappear, manageable. If it's Medicare Part B, Part D with the spillover into Medicaid,
the spillover into 340B pricing, and all of the other problems, definitely painful. If it spills over into
the private market, devastating So I mean, I think all of this, of course, is something to look at.
And here I speak about the industry, I think, broadly as well.
I mean, of course, for Novartis, given our relative exposure to the U.S. and relative exposure to
Medicare, if this policy ultimately were to come into place, we're well positioned, relatively
speaking. But that still doesn't mean that we would in any way want this to happen, given,
obviously, given the damage it would do to our ability to invest in R&D, invest in manufacturing,
invest in a future pipeline of medicines for patients around the globe, it would definitely have a
significant impact. But certainly, it depends on the details of what ultimately is conceived.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my follow-up question. First, a big-picture
question on IRA. Could we have your thoughts about the difference in exclusivity between small
molecule and large molecules in 9 years versus 13 years? Do you see any, let's say, possible
happy endings or more favorable trend on this front? Any color would be great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think it was very promising, and I think a good sign that in the President's executive order that
there was support for moving the small molecule 9 years to 13 years. That's something the
industry has made our top priority from a legislative standpoint. We have the pay force to enablethis to happen, so it's our absolute focus that in any reconciliation bill that's taken forward that the
correction of 9 and 13 is part of that reconciliation bill. And I think we have a good bipartisan
support both in the House and Senate to make that happen.
And I think we know that with respect to these kinds of bills, it really comes down to the very final
legislation -- language on the last day. So we can never be sure, but I think all signs are positive
that we have an opportunity to get this fixed, which would really, I think, enable us to sustain small
molecule drug innovation into the future. So I'm hopeful. I'm hopeful at this point that we could
make something happen.
I think while on that, I think we continue to also advocate, of course, on PBM reform. I think there
was a good bill that nearly passed in December, and we continue to hope that that can happen.
And then we continue to advocate for fixing the 340B system as well. That may not happen
legislatively, but we continue to pursue all avenues to ensure that there's no abuse of the 340B
system. There was an important report put out by the Senate Health Committee, I think, that
highlights the problems in the current system.
So hopefully step-by-step, we get to a place where that program is also put into its proper
context of actually helping patients and clinics in low-income communities and disadvantaged
rural communities get the support they need without the abuse that we're seeing around the
country. So those would be the three, I think, big legislative priorities for the industry and for
Novartis.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we have one more question, maybe?
Operator
(Operator Instructions)
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
No? All right. Very good. Thank you all very much. Thank you for joining today's call. We'll look
forward to keeping you up to speed on all happenings at Novartis, and we wish you a great day.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.