Q1 2026 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Hello everyone, welcome to Toyota's Q1 earnings results briefing. I will be the
moderator of this conference. My name is `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional, in charge of IR.
And please allow me to introduce our speakers. First of all, `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer and
Chief Financial Officer. Also, `Takanori Azuma, Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Chief Officer, Accounting Group.
And we have Hiroyuki Ueda, Chief Officer of the External and Public Affairs Group. The schedule
for today is that we will begin with a short presentation by `Takanori Azuma, Chief Officer, Accounting Group, and then continue on
with the Q&A session. Also, for today's briefing, we are providing simultaneous interpretation for
Japanese and English.
You are now hearing the English Channel, so you have selected the English Channel from the
interpretation button.
For today's briefing, simultaneous interpretation of Japanese and English will be provided. If
you'd like (technical difficulty) for the presentation.
`Takanori Azuma, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(Translated) Hello everyone, I am Azuma, from (technical difficulty) (inaudible) The full year
operating income forecast has been revised downward by JPY 0.6 trillion from the previous
forecast, ending at JPY 3.2 trillion. Concerning the impact of U.S. tariffs in light of the Japan-U.S.
agreement, we have factored in the full-year effect, and as a result, we are expecting a JPY 1.4
trillion impact, a JPY 1.2 trillion increase from the impact reflected in the previous forecast.
Despite the challenging external environment, we will continue to make comprehensive
investments as well as improvements, such as increasing sales volume, cost reductions, and
expanding value chain profits, and minimize our negative impacts. We will work with all
stakeholders, including suppliers and dealers, to leverage the results of our foundation-building
efforts to further improve productivity.And from this page, I'd like to explain our financial results for Q1, ending June '25. Consolidated
vehicle sales for this period reached 2,411,000 units, 107.1% year-on-year. Toyota and Lexus
vehicle sales totaled 2,643,000 units, 106.1% year-on-year.
Thanks to the recovery in production through strengthening our foundation, which vehicle sales
increased globally. The ratio of electrified vehicles rose to 47.6%, driven mainly by the strong
hybrid sales in regions such as North America and Asia. Consolidated financial results were for
sales revenues, 12,353.3 billion operating income of 1,166.1 billion income, before income tax,
1,252.1 billion, and net income, 841.3 billion.
To explain the factors which impacted the operating income year-on-year, first of all, the
exchange rate fluctuations reduced the operating income by JPY 165 billion. Cost reduction
efforts increased the gross operating income by JPY 45 billion, and the strengthening foundation
of suppliers and changes in the material prices reduced the operating income by JPY 60 billion.
Together, these resulted in a net decrease of JPY 15 billion, and with respect to marketing
efforts, it increased vehicle sales as well as expansion of the value chain profits led to an increase
of JPY 260 billion on operating income, and due to the effects of U.S. tariffs, expenses reduced
the operating income by 370 billion. For the other factors, including swap valuation gains and
losses, this led to an increase of operating income by 147.7 billion. As a result, excluding the
impact of exchange rate fluctuations and swap valuation gains and losses, operating income
decreased by 125 billion yen.
Now, this slide shows the operating income by geographical region. In Japan, operating income
decreased mainly due to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations and expenses. In North
America, the operating income declined because of the U.S. tariffs.
Other regions saw an increase in operating income. The operating income of consolidated
subsidiaries and share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method for the
China business increased thanks to making efforts and cost reductions. Operating income in the
financial services segment increased largely due to increasing loan balances.
Now, let me explain about our March 2026 forecast. Consolidated vehicle sales and Toyota Lexus
vehicle sales remain unchanged from the previous forecast. By region, an increase is expected in
North America, where the market is strong, while a decrease is anticipated in Thailand and
Indonesia, reflecting uncertain market situations.
Now, let me explain the new full-year consolidated forecast. We have adopted the same
exchange rate assumptions and sales revenues JPY 48.5 trillion yen, operating income 3.2 trillion,
income before income taxes JPY 3,870,000,000,000, net income JPY 2,660,000,000,000
billion. That's our forecast.
Now, comparing the OP year over year, due to the exchange rate fluctuations, operating income
is expected to decrease by JPY 725 billion and JPY 300 billion down due to material prices and
JPY 1.3 billion down due to U.S. tariffs. So, we are seeing charged macro conditions, but we make
comprehensive investments and we'll keep on making efforts to increase sales volume, cost
reductions, and expansion of value chain profits and make a JPY 900 billion improvement.
And as a result, well, the forecast shows down by 1.6 trillion, ending at 3.2 trillion, but we want to
maintain and strengthen our earning power, and we will work together with our suppliers and
dealers, all of our stakeholders, to leverage the results of our foundation building efforts to
further improve our productivity.Lastly, let me explain about the changes in our profit structure. In the past, well, that was the,
what I explained up to now is the financial results, but here, well, I would like to show you how the
profit structure has changed in the past 17 years. So, the line in the graph shows, well, please look
at the orange line.
We have -- we started from 7.56 million and currently we are at a level of 9.8 million, so we added
2 million approximately of units. So, every year we keep on adding the vehicle sales volume, and
globally it adds up to 150 million units in operation, and this amount or the scale actually supports
our value chain business. As you can see in the bar charts below, the red shows our operating
income, the orange bar shows our value chain profits.
So, March 2026 forecast, out of the 3.2 trillion OP, over 2 trillion is expected to come from our
value chain business. So, now with the macroeconomics, well, the new vehicle sales, regardless of
the impact on the new vehicle sales, we still will be able to expect this much from our value chain
from our customers. So, that only shows that our recurring business, our stock business is really
getting strong.
And on top of that, we are having an increase of the sales volume, and this profit would be our
net liquid assets. Well, just after the Lehman collapse, our net asset was 1.5 trillion, but it went up
to 1.46 trillion, and in 2019 March. So, thanks to that, we can invest it to (inaudible) and battery
EVs, and also in exchanging our equipment that are aging.
So, it's not just only for our current investment, but this is also linked to our future investments.
And looking into breakeven volume, unfortunately it's worsening slightly, but we want to work
together with our suppliers and dealer network to make sure we wouldn't be going back to the
past. We want to improve this, and that's the next challenge we will be taking.
We have to overcome this and make sure that we keep the manufacturing base and industry
remaining in Japan. And this concludes my part. Thank you for listening.
Questions And Answers
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) And from here, I would like to begin our Q&A session and open the floor to
questions. If you have any questions, please display your company name and your full name in
Zoom, and then press the raise hand button. When we call your name, please unmute your line,
and we'd like to receive questions from as many participants as possible.
So, we'd like to limit the question to two per person. Thank you for understanding. And please
note that if you participate by phone, we will not be able to take questions from you since we
won't be able to identify your name.
Thank you. So, if you have any questions, please use the raise hand button.
And from Citigroup Securities, Yoshida-san please, we will connect to you, and when you are
connected, please begin with your question.
Yoshida-san, can you unmute yourself and begin your question?
Q - `Arifumi Yoshida, Analyst, Citigroup Securities `
(Translated) Thank you. Can you hear me?A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Yes, we can hear you.
Q - `Arifumi Yoshida, Analyst, Citigroup Securities `
(Translated) Thank you. My first question would be regarding how you're dealing with tariffs. So,
for the short-term and mid-to-long-term, what is it that you will be doing? So, in the previous
opportunity, it was in the timing under negotiation, so I assume it was very difficult to make
significant comments.
But receiving this decision or agreement on 15%, what will be -- you be able to do? Be visiting the
supply chain or to do the price ups for your products? What will be the initiatives that you will
take?
The other question that I have is for the group cross-shareholding situation. From '23, you have
been doing the dissolving of the cross-shareholding. And so, AISIN, TICO, HINO, these big
decisions have been made.
And how should I understand this? Do you think that most of it, of this dissolving of the cross-
shareholding, has mostly ended? Or do you think that there are still some challenges that you
have to tackle regarding the cross-shareholding?
So, if it was a mountain, how high have you achieved? So, how much do you think you've achieved
this solution?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Thank you for your questions. And I think the first question I will address, and then
maybe the other question can be explained by Kon-san. Thank you, Yoshida-san [ph], for your
question. So, for your first question regarding tariffs, how we are going to deal with the tariffs.
So, in short term, as I've explained, I think it's about manufacturing as much as possible. And
currently, we have backorders. There are customers still that are waiting for their vehicles to be
delivered.
So, we first need to return to the full operation for our production and be able to deliver to our
customers. That's the first thing we prioritize. The second is we need to continue our focus on
cost reduction.
Last year, there was an impact from certification issues. Therefore, the engineers' capability was
not able to fully focus on the Kaizen activities nor the VA or VE activities. But in the past year, I
think the next year, we will be focusing on cost reduction activities and also, on the other hand,
increasing the volume.
So, increasing the production sales volume plus, at the same time, doing cost reduction. Well, this
is what Toyota has been doing. So, we'll work on that steadily.
And the other part is about our work on value chain activity. Value chain activities from six years
ago, it used to be about JPY 1 trillion in terms of profit, but it has improved to a JPY 2 trillion level.
For each region, they are significantly focused on the value chain business to develop this
business.So, there's best practices like extension of warranty in Europe so that the customers can come
back to the dealers that they bought their cars. These kinds of best practices will be shared and
be deployed to the other regions as well. And in Japan, there's about 6,000 dealer outlets.
Globally, the number is about 160 million. And so, each of the dealers will enhance their
connection with the customers, the end users, so that can have a positive impact to our business.
These three points is where we are going to focus on.
And now, for mid- to long-term perspective, it will be about thoroughly pursuing local production
and local sales, local consumption through these initiatives for the tariff challenges. We want to
overcome the challenges that we have with tariffs.
Q - `Arifumi Yoshida, Analyst, Citigroup Securities `
(Translated) Thank you. So, looking from the outside, the U.S. sales seems to be performing very
strongly. So, maybe there's some price strategies that you can pursue more aggressively. That is
a feeling that I have.
But what do you think about the price strategies in the U.S. market?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Thank you for the question. It's not about us simply being able to do a price-up just
because we see a tariff increase.
That is not what we assume. We have to always be considerate of the customers. What we are
always trying to do is to provide good products at an affordable price from the customer's
perspective.
And, of course, this is a competition. So, we want the customers to see that among all of their
options that they have from other base [ph], Toyota and Lexus products are strong and they
want that. So, we need to watch the landscape of the market.
And also, we have the GI, the general price increase in July. But we will be thinking of this price
increase where it is relative and appropriate and also watching the timing. Thank you.
(Translated) And then now for the second question about the cross-shareholding among the
group companies is what I would like to response to -- respond to. And as it was mentioned,
HINO, TICO, through these projects, we have been able to address the large outstanding
challenges. But it doesn't mean that we are completely done with our initiatives for dissolving the
cross-shareholding.
However, what kind of speed and what kind of level we will be promoting the cross-shareholding
dissolution and where our goal is, it is not really clearly set. We don't have a clear set goal on
what we're trying to achieve. But the state of the group companies is a little by little changing.
And therefore, as we move forward, how we are going to work with the other companies like it's
been so eye-catching and how we can work together to enhance the competitiveness of the
whole group, what should be the ideal capital structure in where we enhance our
competitiveness. This kind of discussion is still ongoing. And we don't have a response that I can
give you here.
But I'd like to repeat that we have not -- I'm not saying that we have set the goal and we have not
achieved our goal. There are things that we are still considering now. That's all from myself.Q - `Arifumi Yoshida, Analyst, Citigroup Securities `
(Translated) Thank you.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you, Yoshida-san. Let's move on to the next person. Kishimoto-san, JPMorgan.
We will unmute you, so please be patient. Kishimoto-san, please unmute yourself.
Q - `Akira Kishimoto, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
(Translated) Kishimoto from J.P. Morgan speaking. Hello. Two questions from my end.
First question is, well, recently in the U.S., we are seeing, well, the responses against the tariff.
And that's what I would like to hear from you. Oh, excuse me, the regulations, CAFE, GHC2.
Well, I think the regulations are easing now. Well, you have been showing your multi-pathway in
the past. Maybe now this is starting to see some effectiveness and impact.
Now, thinking about the regulations, now you have the mid and long-term thoughts about your
powertrain mix. And that's what we would like to hear from you. And during the first quarter, the
hybrid vehicle has been pretty strong.
And over the year, well, I think your plan is that this trend is going to be going on. Now that RAV4
will be coming up, maybe I think there is some growth potential for the hybrid. So can we hear
from you about your forecast on the hybrid?
So that's the first thing. And second is, well, when we think of a longer horizon, your ROE 20% is a
goal that you have. And now that TICO will be privatized and a big amount of amortization would
be recorded.
And having said that, so what is your view for your equity ratio? And that's what I would like to
hear. And those are the two questions.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Thank you. So talking about the mix of the volume, let's go back to page 11. And
that's where you see our guidance for this fiscal. And yes, we will keep on growing.
And with the battery EVs, yes, there will be new models, not just only battery EVs but also the
hybrid vehicles too. And the RAV4 that we announced, well, for the production volume, yes, this
fiscal is at 50,000 units. So for the domestic production, we are kind of conservative.
But we want to make sure that the ramp-up will be steady. We don't want to go for a vertical
ramp-up, but rather we want to be calm and steady. And that's how we want to start the RAV4
production.
That is why the volume of the bZ4X and RAV4, we keep it at a low level for a stable production.
But we will be looking into the demand, too. And that's how we will be responding to the hybrid
vehicles and electrification.
And I would like to answer the second question. Well, just before that, let me add on some
comments to what Azuma-san said. Well, talking about, yes, multi-pathway, well, to have a
different powertrain mix is important, as you said, Kishimoto-san.But at the same time, we have to be looking into the balance. But it's our customers deciding or
eventually leading us to decide the mix. So the ICE cars, quality, performance, hybrid
performance, so each of the different powertrains' performances should be enhanced.
And that is important. And at the end, it depends on what the customer will be choosing. Well,
the mainstay is hybrid now.
That's being a favorite powertrain. But to be able to respond to different environmental
regulations, we have to be able to cater to different needs. Now, going to your second question,
yes, 20% of ROE and talking about a long-term capital strategy, as you pointed out, yes, a big
buyback and amortization or cancellation will be carried out.
Well, simply put, it's not a matter of reducing or lowering the capital. Rather, we have to be
thinking about or be aligned with the corporate strategy. And now that we will be enhancing our
value chain revenues and profits, that is why we have to be looking into the units in operation to
be able to grow our value chain business. That means we wouldn't be requiring a big amount of
asset. Yet, we can grow our revenues and profits, and that is why we can go for an asset-light
way of direction.
And we want to be clear with what will be the adequate level, and that's the kind of decision we
would like to make. Well, business direction-wise, our finance business, for that, yes, we need our
assets, but it's much easier to enhance the leverage with the finance business. On the other
hand, value chain business relies on the assets that our customers have, which is the units in
operation.
That means we wouldn't have to need so much asset or capital on our side. So, overall, in that
sense, we can be lighter or leaner in the asset structure. That's our view.
That's it from me.
Q - `Akira Kishimoto, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
(Translated) Thank you. Well, as per my second question, and you mentioned about the value
chain business, and yes, this is something that will be growing this fiscal year, too, and I think it's
good to grow that. Now, when we look into the breakdown, the details, you have the accessories,
the spare parts, as well as the finance business. But I think there will be a time where the
connected side of the business will be contributing more to the value chain business.
Could you give me some guideline, timeline on that?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
Now, when we think of the parts and accessories, we don't think that we are satisfied with the
current level. Well, we do understand that the current revenue and profit levels are high, though.
And after several years, well, some time, and now that I'm back related and involved to the
financial results at TMC, I start to find out that at TMC, well, we are being able to earn from our
parts and components.
That means we are being able to supply parts and components. We wouldn't have any lead time
of like a month for our customers to wait, and at the same time, our cost structures allow our
dealership to make repair and maintenance in their workshops. And these are also actually the
underpinning factors to support our value chain business, and this is something that would be
showing its strength farther.Well, yes, SDV is one thing that we want to make it the next pillar of our business, but now when
we think of the parts, components, accessories, these are of high profitability. So we think and we
want to grow this part to farther.
Q - `Akira Kishimoto, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
(Translated) Thank you for the clarification.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you, Kishimoto-san. Let's move on to the next question. From Goldman Sachs
Securities, Yuzawa-san.
Yuzawa-san, please. I'll be connecting you. Hold on, please.
Yuzawa-san, will you unmute yourself and begin with your question?
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Securities `
(Translated) Are you able to hear me? Yuzawa from Goldman Sachs Securities.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Yes, we hear you.
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Securities `
(Translated) Thank you. My first question is a very simple question.
For the first quarter, this negative impact from tariffs has come out, but it was larger than the
information we received beforehand. So can you explain a little bit about that? And for the full
term, I thought that if it was settled at 15%, the impact would be smaller, but how did you come
up with this number?
How did you calculate this number? That's my first question. And regarding the second question,
it's nice to see you again, Kon-san, at TMC's financial results announcement.
And now you're back as CFO. So what will be the indicators, KPIs, that you will be further focusing
on? Will there be -- can you give me some explanation on what you are planning, what kind of
direction that you will be looking at as CFO of Toyota?
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer `
(Translated) Well, thank you very much. So myself, Azuma, will begin with responding to your first
question. At the beginning of the term, when we made the announcement, we have calculated
the impact from the vehicle side business and said that it was going to be $180 billion.
And for this first quarter, it's $450 billion. It's not just April, May, but we have extended the period
to cover June for the first full quarter. And another thing is that it doesn't include only the vehicle
business, but also the impact to the parts.
It will be the parts that Toyota imports and also what the supplier imports from Japan at U.S. So
the suppliers that we procure from, they will be doing their own import to the United States. So
that has been considered as well, this negative impact. And the other thing that we haveconsidered is there will be incentives for local production, but the timing of when the incentives
will be refunded, it will be different.
So, that's why we have $450 billion calculated for the first quarter. So we have expanded the
coverage in terms of business area and also the timeline. That is why it came up as $450 billion.
For the full term, basically it's the same way that we have done the calculation. Currently,
between U.S. and Japan, it is 15% agreed upon, currently at 15%. And there will be the import
from Japan for U.S. businesses, about 20%.
And the impact from there will not be such a huge amount than we had expected initially. But
continuing negotiations are with U.S.-Canada, U.S.-Mexico. And for vehicle imports, that is also
included.
And we have to understand all of the suppliers' impact, too. This is not something that Toyota will
bear all of the impact, but we want to work with all of our partners in making the car and to make
the efforts on how to lessen the impact and also what is it that each company will burden. And
this will be determined by talking with each of the companies.
Currently, for the total vehicle, among the $1.4 trillion, we believe the impact to the vehicle
business is $1 trillion. And therefore, $400 billion is what we anticipate for the part-side business.
That is the assumption that we have.
And so we have set a certain criteria to do this calculation and certain assumption. So, of course,
if the situation changes, there might be some changes with the numbers here. But we like to be
flexible, and we will be updating with any additional opportunities that we have.
That will be the response from myself. And I think your question was about what is the current
Toyota that I see coming back. And this time, this $1.4 trillion of the tariff impact, even if we have
that, $3.2 trillion, whether this is a big high level or not may be a separate discussion. But I think
that even if we have this $1.4 trillion, we are able to secure steadily this profit on the $3.2 trillion
level.
And the reason why Toyota is able to do that, I try to understand by looking into the source of our
profit. And first of all, looking at each region, North America had a big hit with the impact.
It is just immediately after the tariff impact started to come out. China has a marked difficulty in
market, also Southeast Asia. Each region is being talked about having been in a very tough
environment.
But Asia still has secured significant profit. Also, even in the Japan market and even in Europe,
which was a talk set to be, it was very severe. And even India, in the past, everyone was talking
about how tough the market is.
But in all these markets, we have steadily secured our profit. And probably this was possible
because we switched to our region-based management and had a more emphasis on the
regional business, not just to use one yardstick to select the model's product lineup, but looked
at India, looked at Thailand, to each of these individual markets and select the most appropriate
product lineup. So I think in the past about two decades, we have shifted.
I think it shows what we have steadily done has turned out results. So there were some weakness
in certain markets before, but it is becoming stronger. Right now, North America is becoming
tough, but the other regions are able to cover up with their strength.So that is Toyota's profit structure right now. But we have not achieved our goal. Still, Thailand,
Indonesia, India, Europe, and also U.S., North America, there are still many things that we have to
do. So in each region, we will focus on what needs to be done and steadily implement it. An
important -- what will be the important KPI going forward was another question you had. One of it
will be, as Azuma-san said, the break-even volume.
This is a very important KPI for us. It is not simply about cutting fixed costs. It is not simply about
doing a price-up.
In order to improve our break-even volume, we have to look into the factors one by one. We
have to listen to the customers' voices and understand what they are wanting. And if people are
willing to spend, we should price in that way.
And it's not that cutting fixed costs in the same way across the board is not that way. We have to
look into the details one by one. And making comprehensive investments up to now has
strengthened the Genba, the front line.
So that needs to be leveraged. That strength that we build needs to be leveraged and enhance
our efficiency. We are continuing to change the way we work.
And where it needs to be reviewed and revisited significantly, we're doing that. So we need to
leverage and utilize the investment that we're doing. And by doing the improvements on our
business, we want to reduce the break-even volume.
So that is on my mind. That's all for myself.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you.
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Yuzawa-san, I'm sorry. I think I gave you mistaken information. I'd like to correct that.
For April-May, I said 180 billion. I said we just reflected the vehicle side impact. But actually,
vehicles and also the parts that is imported by Toyota was also included in this 180 billion.
So, I'm sorry. I lied a little bit. It's not only vehicles. Oh, no. It's okay.
So basically, the part costs will be initially burdened by Toyota. And that is the 1.4 trillion included
there. Well, for this -- that part, we are now consulting with each company that is related. And, of
course, there are the larger scopes. As with certain companies, there might be a significant
amount we burden, but less in other companies.
We're talking to each company one by one. It's not that Toyota is going to bear 100% of their
impact. But we're looking into bearing a significant -- an appropriate amount based on each
company's situation.
Q - `Kota Yuzawa, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Securities `
(Translated) Thank you. Understood.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you, Yuzawa-san.Let's move on to the next question. Takahashi-san from UBS Securities. And we will bring you to
the panelist.
And if you're now with us, please unmute yourself.
Q - `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS Securities Japan Co., Ltd `
(Translated) `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS Securities Japan Co., Ltd from UBS speaking.
My first question is about the corporate plan. I mean, your forecast and I would like to have that
being elaborated. And you have around 1.2 trillion. And, well, I think the tariff impact will be
lowering in the second to the fourth quarter.
But then, now, why can we not expect higher profit? Of course, I do understand that you are
doing many things. If you could also explain this to us both from a qualitative and quantitative
perspective, that would be nice.
And you also made some downward revision for the guidance. And maybe because the first
quarter was higher than expected and then that is why you also factored in. But the second
quarter always seems to be lower than what you achieved in the first quarter. That's my first
question.
Second is about the dividend payout ratio for your dividend policy. ROE 20% is what you set as a
goal. And, of course, you want to be asset light. And, as you mentioned in the past, of course,
there are investors who want to gain capital. And there are also long-horizon investors.
And then, at some point, the dividend payout ratio, which is 30% now, should be even higher.
Otherwise, for investors with a longer horizon, your shares would not appear to be attractive. But
then when you will be lowering your assets, maybe it will be buybacks or restructuring of the
businesses.
Is it going to be that? Or probably you will reach a point that you will have to be increasing the
payout ratio. Then what will be your dividend policy? If you can give us some comments, that will
be very helpful.
A - `Takanori Azuma, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
(Translated) Thank you. Azuma speaking, and I would like to answer to your first question.
The June quarter, yes, we ended at 1.2 trillion. So, multiplied by 4, it should be 4.8 trillion full year.
But the fact, well, in the 1.2 trillion that we achieved, we also have some temporal factors that are
pulling up the revenues and profit.
First of all, in the first quarter, yen appreciated. And the inventory we have in the U.S. Well, when
it's, yen is, so these were when the yen was weaker. But now that we have these inventory with
high valuation because we bought it when the yen was weak. But now, because the yen is
appreciating, it has been devaluated.
And then we also have this consolidated, we call it the consolidated correction. So, we have a
one-off factor. That's one thing.
And the other is that, well, every year it's like this. When we think of expenses and, well, way of
spending our money, usually these are weighted more towards the second to the fourth
quarters. So, that's another thing. Now, talking about the volume forecast, this fiscal, our batteryAnd another thing is about the profitability. So, towards the latter half of the year in the mix that
we have. So, the increasing battery EVs will be impacting the overall mix. That is why you see
some extraordinary factors for the first quarter. And also the usual, I don't say seasonality, but the
tendency we have towards the latter quarters or latter half of the year. That's the factors.
Q - `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS Securities Japan Co., Ltd `
Well, if possible, could you also make a year-over-year comparison, or excuse me, compared to
the previous guidance that you announced, other than the tariff? Well, you also mentioned some
special factors in the battery EV mix.
I think that's something that was expected. So, it's not so out of the original plan?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Right, more or less as we planned. That's right.
Q - `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS Securities Japan Co., Ltd `
(Translated) Understood. So, the 3.2 trillion operating income for the year is a realistic figure,
right?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Yes. Yes, it all depends on how we can add up to achieve this number.
Right.
(Translated) Now, talking about the dividend policy. Yes, our current dividend policy, I'd say is, well,
gradually, we are increasing the dividend payout value itself. And this fiscal, yes, the profit will be
dropping, but dividend is to be progressing and increasing in terms of the payout. And this is
something we want to keep it unchanged.
And at the end, in the mid-to-long-term perspective, the dividend payout ratio will be also
growing, and that is what we are planning. Well, it's not that we are going to raise the dividend
payout ratio one day, but rather, gradually, maybe the increase might not be so big on a yearly
basis, but we want to step up gradually, and we believe that this will help pay back our long-term
investors and shareholders.
Q - `Kohei Takahashi, Analyst, UBS Securities Japan Co., Ltd `
(Translated) Thank you. That means, let's say, if you will be cutting your assets, that could be
buybacks, or you will be restructuring your business.
Is that right?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Well, if we have to drop it drastically in a year, maybe that's something we will be
doing. But currently, the biggest shareholder return is the payout that we make, and to gradually
increase that is what we believe to be important. Thank you.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you, Takahashi-san.Let's go on to the next question. Ishiyama-san from Mizuho Securities. Ishiyama-san, please go
ahead.
Q - `Yoshitaka Ishiyama, Analyst, Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd `
(Translated) Ishiyama here from Mizuho Securities. Do you hear me?
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Yes.
Q - `Yoshitaka Ishiyama, Analyst, Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd `
(Translated) Thank you.
My first question will be regarding production. Currently, it doesn't mean that all the demands are
good in all regions, but in each region, I think that you have a very strong demand for your cars,
and 10 million vehicles for production volume.
Probably, it is going back to cruising speed from last year when we were struggling with the
certification issues. That's my understanding. But in the company now, is there a discussion saying
that you want to push a level up further for the production volume level, and you have made an
announcement about setting a new plant?
Are you thinking about the production capacity increase and increasing the volume? So, what is
your forecast for the short-term and also mid- to long-term? What are your plans and discussions
that you're having about your production capacity?
And the next question, coming back to the break-even volume topic, so you've shown in the
diagram that it is trending upwards this time, but you're going to make efforts so that it doesn't
go up further, and that will be the efforts going to be made. But thinking about the next few
years, the level that has -- the increased level that you have now, the image that I keep is that this
level is going to continue for a while, but I don't think you have a clear objective. But, for example,
this term ending in March of 2016, do you think this is the ceiling, this is the peak, and then it will
go down from here?
Or should I think that the break-even point will have a different direction in the next two or three
years? What should the image -- what kind of image should I have?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Well, thank you, Ishiyama-san.
I'll answer the first question. Regarding the production situation, of course, we have -- we can't
just set a certain number and achieve that. We have to work with our suppliers and receive the
cooperation from them.
There are a daily of 14,000 units that we want to produce a day. We have to receive the
cooperation to achieve this. And right now we're seeing a population decline and having some
difficulties in hiring people.
And more than TMC, it's the suppliers that are struggling with hiring currently. So, the impact of
these areas, we have to see if Toyota can support in some way. And in the past three years,
we've been making comprehensive investments.And this includes the support to suppliers as well. In order to strengthen our footings and
foundation, we have been putting some -- making investments to strengthen our foundation,
where we don't look at completely set a clear goal for what we get in return. And so, we think
what is important is not to have supply risks.
And we're always depending on the suppliers. So, we'll be talking and consulting with them to
achieve a 14,000-unit-a-day production level, which amounts to about more than 3 million. So, we
want to make sure that we secure that level of capacity.
And also, I talked about the RAP [ph] for ramp-up. And we are carefully considering whether
suppliers can keep up with our model changes as well. In a pack of volume for 2 million, we tried
to do the logistics revisit, restructuring as well.
So, even if we see the headcounts going down, we should do -- we are now aggressively doing
some automation. And even the cleaning robots are being introduced, so that even if you don't
have human cleaners and logistic handlers, we're seeing if the robotic robots can take it in place.
So, these kinds of trials are also being done so that we can enhance our productivity at the plant
operations side.
We're thinking of how we can create a future plant. It's not going to be we do take -- make one
plant, and it's going to be the future plant. But we're doing various trials so that we can gradually
be able to create the plant of the future.
And gradual trials and efforts will build up to the 10 million level. And compared to last year, what
we see now is the number of stops at the production lines have reduced greatly compared to
last year operation situations. So, I think it shows that in the past, we were putting a lot of
pressure and pushing through production and barely able to make it.
And then that will be pressuring the lines, and sometimes it will cause the production lines to
have problems and to stop. But so, in order to avoid these kinds of risks, we are making the
investments and the activities so that our production operation and structure can be enhanced.
And as a result, we want to stably secure the 10 million units plus how much we can make further
increase.
That is what we're trying to see. And today, we've made a separate press release about
acquiring the land for the new plant. And for Toyota's plant, most of it in this region is aging, that
it has been constructed more than 50 years ago.
There is the rainwater leakage from the roofs, and also facilities are aging. So, if it is the
manufacturing 60 years ago, many of it is not very small space compared to the large spaces
needed with larger cars today. It's not just the production, but logistics is sometimes done in a
very inefficient way.
But in order to keep up with the changes in the world, we're trying to update with a new plant.
And so, we'll have to do the update of the age equipments. And together with that, we want to
create a future plant in this opportunity.
And this will be an opportunity for us to review how we're making things so that we can introduce
new ideas. So, it's going to be the trials that we'll do. These trials will lead to enhancement of our
productivity.
And we want this new plant that we will make and the new plant that we will be making to be the
leader towards creating a future plant for Toyota. And we want to also show with the new plantthat Monozukuri manufacturing of cars is interesting, and it's a strong business, and so that more
people will be interested in being engaged with this business. So, that is another thing that we're
thinking, too.
In Japan, there's much more aged facilities, and we have to do the update with the priority in
Japan. So, we'll do it in Japan first. And if we work on these updates of the facilities, there will be
further enhancement made on the capacity side for the production volume. And so, we will be
working on this one by one.
I'd like to go on to respond to your second question regarding the break-even volume. This
volume will have various factors involved.
Of course, the forex fluctuations, if we have a strong yen, that will impact the break-even volume,
and like the tariffs issues will also be impacting the BEV as well, the break-even volume. And it's
not something that we can control with just our efforts. So, for next year, the year next, and
maybe two, three years in the future, how this number will turn out is something that we won't be
able to have full control of and have a clear vision of.
But at least for the areas that we're able to control, we will be implementing the initiatives. This
year, if we look at the deteriorating risks, first of all, the BEV in -- among the product mix, the BEV
ratio will be steadily increasing. And with the increase of the BEV ratio, the mix will be
deteriorating from a profit perspective.
On the other hand, as you've mentioned in your question, for the price, the room for making
price ups [ph] for Toyota and Lexus brand has a lot of room to make price revisions as well. But,
of course, we'll always have to be considerate of the customer's willingness to pay. But if the
customers -- if it seems that the customers can accept this price up [ph], well, we do think that
will be an option that we can consider.
And another thing is that, like Azuma-san has said, the enhancement, improvement of the
productivity. Right now, we have seen frequent stoppages up to now at the plant operation site,
but that has -- we were able to resolve that. And therefore, the plant members can concentrate
on production right now.
That kind of a production environment is being established now, and that will be a positive for the
break-even volume. And if I say a little further, the strength of the product that we have, the
product appeal, I believe that we are going to further enhance our product. The powertrain, also
engines, it has a strong performance, and hybrid systems are strong.
And the platform, we have platforms for us that are strong, too. So, the product strength or
product power is something that we expect that will be improved. Therefore, that will help to
make an improvement in the break-even volume, to reduce the break-even volume.
And so, I might be repeating myself, but for the -- there are various things that impact the break-
even volume. And we can't -- for the uncontrollables, we don't know, but for what we can control,
we will work on that so that we can make improvements in the break-even volume.
Q - `Yoshitaka Ishiyama, Analyst, Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd `
(Translated) Understood. Thank you.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you, Ishiyama-san.Let's move on to the next person. Hakomori-san from Daiwa Securities, we will bring you to the
panelist. Hakomori-san, please unmute yourself now.
Q - `Eiji Hakomori, Analyst, Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. `
(Translated) Hakomori from Daiwa Securities speaking. I have two questions. One is about the
tariff, so ways to reduce the payment of tariff.
Maybe you have some methods or thoughts. Could you share that with us? There's been many
questions related to tariff.
You mentioned about the value chain. You also mentioned about the price that will be acceptable
by the customers. We've heard about your secondary responses or initiatives.
Now, to be able to reduce the tariff payment, so what are you going to do with the vehicle sent
from Canada to the U.S. or the bridge production that you have or from cars sent from Japan to
the U.S.? Now that the tariffs are getting settled under this new normal situation, to which
direction are you going to head?
And the backdrop here is that three months ago, we had Miyazaki-san and Yamamoto-san, a
different set of speakers. And back then, things hadn't been decided, and they were telling us
that you would not be panicking.
But now that we start to see new rules, what's your thoughts and what kind of plans do you have?
That's my first question.
My second question is about the competition with the Chinese players, so China ASEAN markets.
When we look at those areas, I think bZ3, you have a new model. And price-wise, too, finally you
are being able to compete with the Chinese mix, and you're starting to get the customers --
respond to customer needs.
Now, looking into JV, I think you are making use of -- heavy use of the resources of the joint
venture. So, considering this, so what will be your timeline and how -- what is your plan to
compete with the Chinese OEMs? Maybe to have Lexus as a premium model and to compete in
a different way is one thing, but when you clash directly with the Chinese OEMs, what's your
thoughts and strategies?
A - `Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
(Translated) Thank you, Hakomori-san. Yes, I took tenure together with Kon-san in July, so maybe
the way you feel from us could be different. And when we said that we were not rushing up or
panicking back in May, that was true, and I really feel it the same way -- felt it the same way.
We shouldn't just look into the short-term competition or responses. But talking about the value
chain business that I mentioned, we started to get prepared six years ago, and finally we are
starting to see the output. And we want to keep on repeating that kind of thing and understand
what our current effects [ph] are and, with that, we have to know what we should -- how we
should prepare towards our future.
And that's the kind of discussions we are having today to be able to survive in the future. That's
what we are doing. So, that's the kind of vibe or atmosphere we have internally.
So, we are pretty calm. So, we are not just looking into a temporal thing, but we always have a
mid-to-long-term perspective in mind.And talking about the -- so, to lower the tariff payment, as you pointed out, well, maybe you have
already joined our suppliers' financial earnings call, well, production, logistics, we have different
stakeholders and, of course, we will have to pay the necessary tariff, but we can think how to
change our logistics. Maybe we send it to Canada via U.S., but then we can directly ship it to
Canada instead. And we want to pile up all of these ideas to be less impacted by the tariff,
bringing different ideas. That's one thing.
And the other is that in North America, we have 11 plants. We have car manufacturing plant. We
have components, battery plants.
And the basic concept we have is to do local development and local production. And if we have
excess capacity, we can make use of it. And as much as possible, we want to respond locally, and
at the end, we want to reduce the impact we get from tariff.
Maybe people are worried that our production in Japan might be impacted and lowered, but we
have the JPY 3 million unit plan in Japan. And we also have the backlog. And from several years
ago, well, we always need a several-year preparation, and we always have the long-term
perspective to go for local development and production.
That's why we want to make use of these ideas, and that's what we should be doing. That's the
answer to your first question.
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer `
(Translated) Hakomori-san, Kon here, and looking forward to more sessions in the future
together with Azuma-san.
Now, talking about competition with China, we are making use of our partner assets. That's one
model we have, and that's why we'll be able to offer lower price points with certain models. To
be able to form an alliance is also part of Toyota's strength.
And on the other hand, in China, well, unlike our domestic production, it's not that we have 40%
or 50% share. Usually, our share in China is 8% to 10%, and we are trying to maintain that
currently. But in China, well, Toyota Lexus, Monozukuri manufacturing and quality are being
accepted and perceived. That's something we strongly feel.
On the other hand, China is making its unique evolution different from other markets. Well, the
cockpit area is one thing. ADAS is another.
And the structure of the car itself is probably going to evolve in a unique manner to some extent.
So, we have to think how to respond to those evolution. So, are we going to make use of the
Toyota asset and respond to that, or are we going to make use of our partner's asset?
So, we have to observe the situation well and make a clear decision. It's not that we will be
heavily biased or weighted towards one single direction, so we'll be working on both, the China
unique part and the common part.
Q - `Eiji Hakomori, Analyst, Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. `
(Translated) Thank you.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you, Hakomori-san.And since it is past the scheduled time, we'd like to take the last question and end the session.
Very sorry, but the next question will be the last question. And please limit your question to one
question because we're past the scheduled time.
We'd like to ask Naruse-san from Okasan Securities, we'll now be connecting you. Naruse-san,
please unmute yourself and go ahead.
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Analyst, Okasan Securities Co. Ltd. `
(Translated) Thank you. Naruse from Okasan Securities.
I think I'm going back to the first question. So, for the way of thinking of cross-shareholding
among the group companies is what I'd like to ask about. So, and it will be the shares that's held
by other group companies like Denso, Aisin, they own Toyota shares, and then Suzuki carmakers,
they also own TMC shares as well.
And so, currently, as for Toyota, for this cross-shareholding, we have -- you have announced
about the privatization of TICO. But for the cross-holding itself, what is the principle that you
have? Probably you'll have to think about the capital efficiency and so forth, but I think that for
suppliers, they can sell the Toyota shares that they currently own. But if it's carmakers, I thought
that you still think that cross-shareholding is important as you continue the partnership with the
other OEMs.
Now, Kon-san, you're back at CFO, so can I ask about how you think about this cross-
shareholdings and mainly about the shares of Toyota that's held by other companies?
A - `Kenta Kon, Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer `
(Translated) Well, thank you for your question. It's not that we have a clear decision on what we'll
do with our partner companies and the Toyota Group companies like Aisin, Denso, Boshoku.
It's not that we have a clear decision on what to do with each of these types of companies, but
when we become a partner with another company, the capital relationship plays an important
role. That is the understanding that I have from my experience and also from my recent
experiences, too.
Giving you an example, Suzuki. With Suzuki, we are engaged in various projects in India. As a
result, in our plant, we are now manufacturing Suzuki cars, and as a result, the Toyota batch [ph]
vehicles and also our Toyota developed vehicles have enhanced its profitability. We see that the
partnership is getting out win-win results.
And in another way, if we didn't have this partnership built in past few -- several years ago, we
probably would not have been able to see this kind of fruit. And it's not just about a simple capital
relationship. I think it's about setting the shared goal of making ever-better cars and then having a
capital relationship to achieve that.
So, it's more like having a strong trust relation between the top management and that will be
underpinned by the capital relationship between the companies. So, it's not that having -- simply
having a capital relationship will turn out certain results, but if we are able to form a good capital
relationship, it works very effectively for the partnerships. That's what I have felt with the results,
financial results, and that's not just about Suzuki, but for Subaru [ph] as well.
And Denso, Aisin, this is the Toyota Group companies that we've had a long relationship with, a
capital relationship with, and how about these companies? This time, we have done arestructuring -- capital restructuring between TICO, and it was a quite unique way that we've
done this solution [ph] of the capital shareholdings. But it doesn't mean that this method or this
approach will apply to other companies immediately.
That's not what we expect. However, we probably won't stay the same as before either. And we
still are not sure or we don't have a clear answer to how we will be, what we will be doing going
forward, but probably it is that we'll continue our discussions with the related parties and figure
out what's the best.
I'm sorry, I'm not answering clearly.
Q - `Shinya Naruse, Analyst, Okasan Securities Co. Ltd. `
(Translated) No, thank you. I understand. I hope you will continue to update us if you have any
developments.
A - `Kazue Mikami, Investor Relations Professional `
(Translated) Thank you, Naruse-san, for your question.
And thank you, everyone. We'd like to conclude this briefing session. Thank you very much for
joining us today despite your occupied schedule. And if you have any further questions, please
contact our IR representatives.
Thank you very much. This is the end. Thank you.