Q3 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Gentlemen, good morning, and welcome to the Telephone Conference of the BMW Group for
the Third Quarter. Today, we have here, as always, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, Chairman of the Board of
Management; and our CFO, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. First, Walter will take you through our financial results.
Oliver will then give you a general business update for the BMW Group. After a short break, we
will then have time for our Q&A session.
And now, Walter, please go ahead.
`Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Marx [ph]. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the third quarter of 2025, the
BMW Group continued its strategic course and maintained its global market position. But before
we dive into the details of the quarter, I would like to directly address our communication from
October 7th. You all know the BMW Group as an ambitious company. We have always focused on
identifying opportunities and realizing market potential, and our success demonstrates that this is
the right approach.
In 2025, despite all known challenges, we were confident in the fundamental potential of the
Chinese market. Our planning scenario was fully confirmed during the first six months with a
performance on the level of the second half of 2024. For the second half of this year, we
assumed we would see growth momentum. However, at the beginning of the fourth quarter, we
observed that this momentum had not materialized to date. So for the remainder of 2025,
volume stabilization, rather than volume growth, now appears likely.
Accordingly, we have adjusted our planning and now anticipate a consistent monthly run rate in
China, in line with the first half of 2025. In addition, we have introduced measures to support the
profitability and liquidity of our dealers in China. The measures will also have an impact on our Q4
profitability. The consolidation of our dealer network in China is progressing to plan.Ladies and gentlemen, with respect to tariffs, the BMW Group has been fully transparent
throughout the year concerning the impact on our 2025 financial results. Our original guidance
given in March, as well as our updated assessments in the Q1 and Q2 reporting, were based on
certain assumptions. As mentioned in our ad hoc announcement, these assumptions were not
fully realized as expected to date. We now anticipate a tariff-related headwind of 1.5 percentage
points on the auto EBIT margin for the full year.
I will share further details on our full year outlook later on, but now, let me walk you through our
Q3 figures. Group earnings before tax totaled over EUR2.3 billion in the third quarter and
exceeded EUR8 billion year-to-date through September. Compared to the first nine months of
2024, this represents only a slight decrease of 9.1%, a notable achievement in light of the current
developments in the automotive industry. And for the full year, we also expect a decrease in the
single digit range only. This represents a full year Group profit before tax of approximately EUR10
billion, despite the significant burden of higher tariffs.
Excluding the impact of tariffs, pre-tax profit even exceeds the 2024 figures. Within the BMW
Group ecosystem, every segment contributes to our overall success. The reported Group EBIT
margin stood at 7.2% in the third quarter and 8.1% year-to-date through September. The reported
Auto EBIT margin fell within our full-year target corridor for both Q3 at 5.2% and year-to-date
through September at 5.9%.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the BMW Group is always transparent in its reporting and we
consistently focus on communicating our published figures. For better comparability within the
industry, allow me nevertheless to provide a few additional details regarding our operational
performance in the Automotive Segment.
First, Auto EBIT includes the depreciation resulting from the purchase price allocation of BBA.
Excluding this depreciation, which amounts to approximately 1.1 percentage points, a quarterly
margin would be 6.3% and the nine months margin would be 7.0%. Second, Auto EBIT also
includes the burden of extra tariffs, which amounts to around 1.75 percentage points in the third
quarter and 1.5 percentage points through September, so this impact should also be added for a
fair comparison of our EBIT margin.
Q3 deliveries to customers at Group level increased solidly by 8.7% year-on-year. After nine
months, the share of all electric vehicles reached 18% of total sales and with a share of 26.2%,
more than one in four vehicles sold globally was electrified, meaning either a BEV or a plug-in
hybrid.
Let's now take a look at how the Automotive Segment performed across key matrix. Deliveries of
BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce vehicles to customers reached 588,000 units in the third quarter. In
Europe, sales grew by 9.3% and in the US by 24.9%. In China, retail sales did not meet our
expectations with deliveries at previous year's level. After nine months, global retail sales
approached 1.8 million units, representing a slight increase of 2.4%. This clearly demonstrates the
strength of our global business model, the sales performance in Europe and the US, more than
compensating the challenges in China.
Sales of all electric vehicles exceeded 100,000 units for the sixth consecutive quarter. Q3
revenues in the Automotive Segment amounted to EUR28.5 billion, reflecting a slight increase of
2.4% year-on-year. Adjusted for currency translation effects, the increase was 6.4%. Segment EBIT
amounted to approximately EUR1.5 billion in Q3 and EUR5.1 billion from January to September.
The reported EBIT margin, including the negative impact of BBA, PPA, and tariffs as mentioned,
came in at 5.2% for the quarter and 5.9% as of September.That brings me to my next slide, taking a detailed look at our operating result of the third quarter
year-on-year. Automotive EBIT increased by around EUR900 million compared to Q3 2024. As
anticipated at mid-year, changes in currencies negatively impacted EBIT by EUR500 million, while
raw material positions remained neutral.
The net effect of volume, model mix, and pricing resulted in a negative impact of EUR300 million
in the third quarter compared to the previous year. Both volume and model mix provided a
tailwind, while pricing was a headwind. This is particularly evident in China, where we see price
pressure across all segments. Furthermore, since the end of June, Chinese banks have
significantly reduced dealer commissions. While this led to a certain increase in transaction prices,
as expected, it could not offset the negative impact of the lower commission revenues for
dealerships. Consequently, we implemented dealer support measures in August to strengthen
dealer profitability and liquidity.
Ladies and gentlemen, in line with our planning, we will continue to decrease our operating costs
in 2025 and beyond. This trend is once again reflected in our figures for the third quarter.
Research and development expenses decreased by about EUR300 million compared to the prior
year quarter. Group R&D expenditure totaled EUR5.9 billion as of September. This remains
significantly below last year's level, despite extensive product initiatives and intensive
preparations for the first model of the Neue Klasse. The R&D ratio according to the German
commercial code stood at 5.9% after nine months.
Selling and administrative expenses decreased by around EUR200 million compared to the
previous year. These nominal cost savings of EUR500 million more than offset the negative
impact from volume, model mix and pricing. Other cost changes provided a tailwind of around
EUR1.2 billion compared to the third quarter of 2024. This development results mainly from three
areas. On the one hand, warranty expenses were significantly lower year-on-year. In Q3 2024, we
fully recognized the necessary warranty provisions for the integrated braking system.
On the other hand, tariffs had a negative impact of around 1.75 percentage points on the Auto
EBIT margin in Q3. A majority of the improvements and other cost changes in Q3 results from the
positive development of manufacturing costs and material costs. So, overall, we reduced costs by
over EUR1 billion in the third quarter and by approximately EUR2 billion year-to-date through
September.
In addition to EBIT, tariffs also affect free cash flow. While refunds are recognized in EBIT, cash will
rather be recognized in 2026 than in 2025. This negatively affects free cash flow through
September and the timing effect alone will impact free cash flow for the full year by a high 3 digit
million euros amount. Free cash flow in the Automotive Segment totaled EUR343 million in the
third quarter.
We start with earnings before tax which amounted to EUR1.4 billion. The net change in working
capital contributed positively to the free cash flow by around EUR300 million. The negative net
effect of capital expenditure and depreciation impacted the third quarter by EUR300 million. The
CapEx ratio was 5.2% in the third quarter and 4.4% for the first nine months. Following the peak in
2024, CapEx will decrease for the full year 2025. The CapEx ratio is projected to remain below
6%.
Changes to provisions negatively impacted free cash flow in the third quarter by approximately
EUR500 million. This was primarily due to the consumption of warranty provisions. The change in
the position, Other, amounting to around EUR600 million reflects the development of a set ofvarious topics including income taxes paid. After nine months, free cash flow in the Automotive
Segment stands at almost EUR2.7 billion.
For the full year, we now target a free cash flow of over EUR2.5 billion compared to the original
forecast of over EUR5 billion. This is driven by two factors: lower than expected earnings for the
full year and tariff refunds that we now expect to receive in 2026 instead of 2025.
We remain committed to shareholder returns using both dividends and share buyback. Despite
the lower free cash flow outlook, we will maintain our dividend payout ratio of 30% to 40%, and
we will continue our share buyback program as announced. As a result, the anticipated
shareholder return for the financial year 2025 will exceed free cash flow in the Automotive
Segment.
Let's now turn to our Financial Services Segment. Financial Services is a key component of our
customer journey and an important part of our integrated value chain. As a vital element of our
financial operating model, the segment contributes consistently to our Group profit. New
business grew significantly during the third quarter, primarily driven by the changed competitive
environment in China. This contributed to a slight year-on-year increase of 1.9% in new leasing and
financing contracts concluded with retail customers over the nine months period.
New business volume increased by 4.2% to EUR48.5 billion. The penetration rate for lease and
loan offerings rose by 4.1 percentage points to 46.4%. Segment earnings amounted to more than
EUR1.8 billion, a year-on-year decrease of 14.4%. The decline is primarily attributable to the lower
income from the resale of end of lease vehicles as well as a tax payment in the second quarter
resulting from a revised operational tax assessment for prior years.
Resale income remains positive on a portfolio basis. The credit loss ratio across the entire loan
portfolio remained low at 0.26%. In the Motorcycle segment, deliveries increased solidly by 5.7%
in the third quarter year-on-year. EBIT for the third quarter totaled EUR60 million, resulting in an
EBIT margin of 7.9%.
Let's now turn to our outlook for the 2025 financial year. Four weeks ago, we confirmed that the
Auto EBIT margin will remain in the guided corridor of 5% to 7%, more specifically in the range of
5% to 6%. We also confirmed that deliveries in the automotive segment are expected to increase
slightly. At the same time, the BMW Group adjusted its guidance for the following two key
performance indicators.
First, Group profit before tax, which we know now anticipate to decrease slightly compared to
2024; and second, return on capital employed in the Automotive Segment which is now
expected in a corridor between 8% and 10%. In the Motorcycle segment, deliveries are now
expected to decrease slightly whilst the EBIT margin range is confirmed between 5.5% and 7.5%.
In the Financial Services Segment, we confirm a return on equity in the range of 13% to 16%.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have invested early and significantly in the future of our company in
line with our long-term strategy. Our technology glasses are ready, paving the way for the broad
deployment of innovations across our complete product portfolio. Our Gen6 battery technology
will shortly hit the market and support profitability with cost savings of 40% to 50% for the battery
pack. After reaching the peak levels in 2024, we are reducing both CapEx and R&D as planned.
We are also maintaining our consistent management of operational costs. This is reflected in our
figures for the third quarter and through September, and it will continue to be visible going
forward.With our highly attractive products in the Neue Klasse, we have the right levers in place to
continuously strengthen our global market position today and in the future. We believe, that our
2025 profitability stands out in the current business environment with a pre-tax profit decline only
in the single digit percentage range year-on-year. And with our strong balance sheet as a solid
foundation, we will deliver consistent returns for our stakeholders. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much, Walter. Now, over to our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management. Please go ahead.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. For the BMW Group, several key strengths have long
formed the foundation of our strategic course: our global footprint, our technology neutral
approach, our premium multi brand strategy and broad portfolio across all relevant customer
segments, and our ability to identify the potential of new technologies and bring them to the
road in each major region. This strength gives us flexibility and makes us resilient and we are
benefiting from them now.
As a global company with global brands, we are used to dealing with varied conditions and
unpredictability on the ground in each market. We recognize the current dynamics in the
automotive industry, major transitions in innovation, operating with a global supply chain, a shifting
geopolitical framework with trade impacts such as tariffs as well as a rapidly evolving market in
China to name but a few. We remain focused on our long-term trajectory, while using our
flexibility to adapt to the changing dynamics and are tackling them head on. This is what has
always set the BMW Group apart. Our business remains on track and healthy.
As Walter just shared, this is underscored by our Group EBIT result over the first nine months,
demonstrating the performance of the entire business including our sales development. Despite
the challenging market dynamics in China, our overall global sales posted year-on-year growth of
8.7% in the third quarter. Excluding China, it was 12.2%.
Through September, sales in Europe were up 8.6% compared to 2024, while sales in the United
States grew by 9.5%. These strong results helped compensate for the developments in China.
Electrified vehicles and M vehicles both drove global growth. With our technology open approach
and multiple premium brands, customers find products that fit their wide range of needs and
tastes.
In the coming months, we will take this to the next level with the introduction of the Neue Klasse.
Just two months ago, at the IAA Mobility here in Munich, we unveiled the BMW iX3, the first
vehicle of our Neue Klasse. The response was tremendous, from visitors and fans from across
the globe, media, analysts and political stakeholders.
A few weeks later, we celebrated the official opening of our new plant at Debrecen, where
production of the iX3 is now underway. We have started taking customer orders for the car, which
have exceeded our expectations. Just looking at Europe, we see orders already extend several
months into 2026 already. This confirms an exceptionally positive start of the vehicle.
The Neue Klasse is BMW at its best; and starting with the iX3, it will set new benchmarks from the
performance data and revolutionary digital interface to its sustainability approach. The BMW iX3
offers a range of more than 800 kilometers in the WLTP cycle and thanks to the ultra fast
charging capability, the peak charging power is up to 400 kilowatts and that means, in just 10
minutes, the iX3 can charge enough to drive more than 370 kilometers.The fully immersive digital experience will bring UI/UX to a whole new level. With the BMW
Panoramic iDrive, drivers can intuitively keep their eyes on the road while all necessary
information is perfectly in view. With the BMW iX3, we will also introduce a new generation of
driver assistance systems.
The BMW Group is the first car manufacturer in Germany to receive approval for assistance
systems in accordance with the United Nations Regulation for Driver Control Assistance Systems,
DCAS. This approval enables the BMW Group to offer the motorway assistance with Level 2
hands-off function in numerous other models and countries in the future. This also covers an
extended range of functions. More innovative assistance functions for urban driving will follow.
In terms of sustainability, the iX3 is explicitly focused on conserving resources and reduction --
and reducing the model's environmental footprint throughout the supply chain, production, use
phase, and recycling. In line with the principles of design per circularity, the iX3 is made up of one-
third secondary raw materials.
Moreover, Plant Debrecen is the first BMW Group car factory that operates and produces vehicles
without using fossil fuels such as oil and gas under normal operating conditions. Overall, the iX3 is
a perfect example of our strategy of reducing CO2 wherever we have leverage. This will help us
reach our near-term target to reduce our carbon footprint by at least 40 million tonnes CO2 by
2030. Since 2020, we have been fully committed to the Paris Climate Agreement with a target of
achieving Net Zero by 2050.
The next Neue Klasse model, which we teased at the IIA, is preparing for its launch, the new
BMW i3. With the eighth generation of the 3 Series, we will bring the Neue Klasse and its
technology clusters into the core of the BMW brand. Production of the i3 will get underway at our
main plant in Munich in the second half of next year. Other locations in our international
production network will follow with production of 3 Series variants.
Throughout 2026. We will show how the Neue Klasse technologies will be integrated into further
models such as the 7 Series and the X5. And by 2027, we will put 40 new models and model
updates with Neue Klasse technology and design language on the road worldwide. This all new
BMW generation will provide an enormous boost to our already broad and popular portfolio with
technology solutions tailored to customers in their markets, and this applies especially to China.
The Neue Klasse products we will launch in China are developed together with our local
engineering teams and Chinese partners in the market, for the market. Our Neue Klasse
architecture allows to integrate local tech stacks from leading Chinese tech players into our own
ecosystem. This gives consumers access to innovations and features they're used to, including
solutions from Alibaba Banma, DeepSeeks, and Momenta.
With the Neue Klasse, we are again demonstrating our strengths in mastering system complexity,
integration and efficiency. We know what our customers want and identify trends in individual
markets early. The result are products that perfectly integrate the best technologies both in-
house and with partners, across regions to offer the best product substance to our customers.
What makes the Neue Klasse so unique is that we are rolling out the technology cluster across
the entire portfolio, regardless of the drivetrain. Our technology neutral approach continues to
show its success and allows broad market access as consumer preferences shift. At the same
time, we are making progress in decarbonization in the here and now.
After nine months into 2025, Group sales of all electric vehicles are up by 10%, resulting in a BEV
share of 18%. PHEVs grew nearly 28% year on year, delivering an overall electrified share througha quarter of total sales, while BEV and PHEVs sales combined for an impressive 41% share.
Europe will also be the primary driver of our BMW iX3 sales in 2026.
Thanks to this solid result, we are well on course to reach our CO2 fleet target for the year, just
as we have consistently done for the past several years. For us, it has long been clear that we
would meet the targets for 2025 and importantly without penalties, pooling, or averaging. This
success with our technology neutral strategy also gives our voice weight in the ongoing
discussions regarding the EU's targets.
We have reached our climate targets by following market demand and customer needs and by
continually optimizing all drivetrain variants. It remains critical for Europe to revisit the targets for
2030 as well as for 2035. Setting an end date to a specific successful technology will lead to a
massive shrinking of the industry as a whole. It will harm European industry and also create
dependencies that are unwise in the current geopolitical dynamic.
To achieve climate goals and create effective CO2 regulations, we must take a comprehensive
view, one that accounts by using a life cycle assessment approach for the full carbon footprint of
the vehicle and its value chain, and that also values climate neutral fuels such as HVO100. Such a
holistic framework would reflect various market needs and uneven infrastructure development,
while safeguarding Europe's value chains, jobs, and industrial strength. And above all, it delivers
genuine climate protection and real reductions in CO2.
Companies should be free to deliver the solutions, taking customer demands and needs into
account while adequately investing in new paths and technologies to achieve the EU's climate
goals. In this context, the BMW Group is very skeptical about the EU's planning greening the
fleet's regulation as it does not consider current market realities. Commercial fleets rely on high
vehicle availability with high mileages.
The currently inadequate charging and hydrogen refueling infrastructure will not be guaranteed in
all member states by 2030 either. Further fleet mandates and additional regulations that exclude
individual technologies are not necessary to achieve the CO2 targets. Moreover, they hinder
technological development and introduce harmful market distortions contrary to customer
preferences. Here also, we advocate for a holistic and technology neutral approach.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are tackling the challenges in global markets head on, leveraging our
strengths and implementing our long-term strategy. We have made significant investments and
have created the right operating framework to deliver. Our flexible global network, our tech open
strategy, our focus on innovation and our ability to master technological complexity sets us apart.
Over the coming months, we will deliver as promised. Starting with the iX3, we will rapidly deploy
our ambitious strategy one vehicle at a time around the globe. We will continue to lead with
product substance and solutions that meet our customers needs. We, therefore, remain
optimistic as we close out 2025 and move forward to 2026.
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a short break before we move
on to the Q&A sessions. See you in five minutes. Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
OperatorColleagues, we shall now turn to the Second Part of our Quarterly Conference, and we'll continue
this in German with interpretation. As always, you get some technical information before we take
the first question.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're now beginning the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) Thank you,
and just a moment for the first question.
The first question comes from `Christina Amann, Analyst, Thomson Reuters, Thomson Reuters. Please unmute your
microphone now.
Q - `Christina Amann, Analyst, Thomson Reuters
Good morning to Munich. Thank you for your segments. I have a couple of questions. I'd like to
start with Nexperia. I bet that's the question most will ask. What's the supply situation with
semiconductors? What are the perspectives for production? What are the perspectives in the
short, mid, and long-term? What is BMW doing in order to solve that situation?
Second question regarding investments. Mr. Mertl, you said that investments will be reduced
according to plan both for development and for production facilities and similar. So could you
explain that a little more, since in that context now looking to the US, tariffs are an issue for BMW.
These repayments outstanding are a reason for your lowered forecast. What other steps has
BMW taken in order to improve the situation? Are you planning to relocate more production into
the US? And now a first glance into the year 2026, what are the prospects for that year? Thank
you.
Operator
Thank you, Ms. Amann. I guess that covered pretty much everything that we need to answer
today. Let's start with Nexperia. Mr. Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Good morning, Ms. Amann. The question is not entirely unexpected, but let me answer
strategically. In global -- being at home in global supply chains, I mean that's something we've
practiced twice, once during Corona and then during the semiconductor crisis two and a half
years ago, so it doesn't really hit us as a surprise.
To get back to this particular case, all I can say is that we are in close contact with our direct and
indirect suppliers, the ones further down in the supply chain, and we continue to assess the
situation. So we do this several times a day in order to identify potential supply risks early and if
necessary, to then take required or appropriate measures.
Currently, production in the market is going well, but it is a volatile situation and this is why we are
making use of all possible measures to keep up our production as good as possible. What is
important, Nexperia is not a direct business partner of the BMW Group, but it supplies our direct
suppliers and we support them in validating and activating alternative supply opportunities. Thank
you for the question.
Operator
Then part two, investment. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `Hello, Ms. Amann. Our long-term plan had been planned early, so from -- we were able to talk
about that investing [ph] in 2020 and a peak is a peak and it's not a level. So it's always been
clear that in 2025 and '26 and '27, we would gradually reduce that back to our strategic corridor.
And that's reflected in our actual figures. We've done our homework. We've had invest in CapEx
and R&D, and we carry that out.
Now, regarding the tariffs, the requests or the applications for refunds have already been filed.
Otherwise, we continue to optimize the way that we announced it in the last two quarters as well
and we're doing everything we can in order to reduce costs for 2026. Well, we'll talk about that
next year, March, at the balance sheet press conference. Thank you.
Operator
Okay, let's take the next question. Next question, `Christoph Ruhlmeyer, Analyst, DPA from DPA. Please unmute
your microphone now.
Q - `Christoph Ruhlmeyer, Analyst, DPA
Well, good morning. I can take it from there, the refunds. The applications you filed, what are the
quantities we're talking about? How much will you be refunded? Then another question relating
to figures. The support for dealerships in China. Can you give us a dimension here, an idea? How
much did that cost you? Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Ruhlmeyer. `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Mr. Ruhlmeyer. Well, the application for tariff refund, we filed it. You do it once a quarter. We
filed that retrospectively for August and September. Since end of September, the most recent
tariffs applied is 15% in the US and the other refunds for production support as 3.75%. We can
also file applications for refund of that. And as you'll know from our ad hoc or guidance, we're
assuming it's a high 3-digit million amount if you add up all of them, be it refunds or payback of
overpayments.
And then you asked about support for dealerships, that's a low 3-digit million amount, to clarify
this and profitability and liquidity as well as operations, can this way be maintained in China. Thank
you. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question. `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal from the Wall Street Journal. Unmute yourself now, please.
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal
Thank you for taking my questions. Firstly, just a quick yes or no, one on the Nexperia situation.
Are you seeing an easing of the situation now or not? And then secondly, just wondering, if you
can give a bit more guidance on the outlook for tariffs going forward. So 175 basis points in the
quarter, 150 for the full year. Do you -- I mean, is 175 the new normal or do you expect the impact
to come down as you head into 2026? So, yeah, those were the two questions. Thank you very
much.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `Well, Stephen, as we already said earlier, we're in close contact with our suppliers and we are
really continuously assessing the situation in order to early identify potential supply risks, and then
to take suitable measures. So this is something that's happening on a basis of several times a
day, but what's also important to us, and this is what we already talked about earlier and to add
to this, we're welcoming the positive signals coming from politics, so we're explicitly welcoming
those.
I think it is very important that all stakeholders in the economy and politics are aware of the fact
that these are global supply chains, and they will remain global. Even if you take hedging
measures, you will, especially the semiconductor industry or the battery industry, no matter how
you position yourselves, if you've got several suppliers, I mean, there'll always be some
remaining dependency. And this is why we welcome it very much, if politics recognize that,
especially here in Germany, we do have these global dependencies and they also have a lot of
benefits.
Operator
Thank you. Maybe, Walter, the outlook regarding the tariffs.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, as I've said in my presentation, we're assuming 1.75 percentage points impact for the entire
year. And of course, we're expecting that everything has been translated into laws that's been
announced. So we're assuming also in terms of, from the EU, we're expecting that the zero
percent import tariffs from the US into the EU will then be ratified and confirmed by the
Parliament. That's what we're assuming is going to happen.
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is from `Joachim Herr, Analyst, Berufserfahrung from Berufserfahrung. Please unmute your microphone.
(Operator Instructions)
Q - `Joachim Herr, Analyst, Berufserfahrung `
Good morning. I have two questions. Mr. Zipse, again on Nexperia, you said, in earlier cases you
were able to practice in Corona and also during the semiconductor crisis or where we have these
bottlenecks. Can you briefly explain, what you've learned from that or how you are able to better
handle the situation this time?
And second question on China. Sales in China minus 11% in the first nine months. So that's below
your expectations. How do you react to that? Are you going to lower the capacities? Are you
reducing headcount as well? So how do you deal with that in terms of production? Thank you.
Operator
Let's begin with Nexperia, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, and then `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Mr. Herr, what I mean by that when I say, we have been able to practice all supply chains with
BMW, begin with a commodity or with a mine and then there's processing stages happening
somewhere in the world and then we've got the first levels of aggregation, the first refinements,and then until in the very end this reaches our first tier suppliers, and we have a high degree
transparency now regarding all components of the vehicle.
So depending on the type, there's between 12,000 and 18,000 individual components involved
and we now have a pretty good overview of the value chain. And this is why we know fairly early
when there could be a bottleneck and before that even begins, we can either increase our
inventory already or we can try and be more flexible.
Do we always succeed? Obviously not, because there's just too many components involved. But
in a case like Nexperia, I think we are fast enough. It's also about speed, about acting quickly,
because when we can act quickly, then we can minimize the effects. Well, of course we cannot
entirely escape the situation, but as I said earlier, at the current point in time, our plants are all full
up and running, and everything else remains to be seen.
Then sales in China, Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, if you look at the development of the quarter compared to the previous year in China, then
you'll see that in Q1 there was a -- and it decreased by 70%, second quarter was about 15% and
now third quarter, nine months, we're at 11%. So gradually, we're doing less value, to put it that
way.
So what are we doing? Well, we're just about to rightsize our dealership network, so we're
consolidating it and we're restructuring. Doesn't mean that we're closing certain shops, but we're
also -- we've got some user service locations. We've also opened up new ones and we'll be
done with all of that by the middle of next year. So much on the sales side and that obviously
helps to increase or support data profitability and that way we'll be able to sell more. And with
Neue Klasse, I'm sure they'll do a great job.
And now in terms of vehicle production, of course, we've got a tight grip on costs and in terms of
head count, we've got fixed term contracts in the joint venture, and depending on capacity, these
contracts will either expire or they'll be renewed. So we can handle everything quite flexibly, both
in sales and production.
Next question, please.
Operator
Next question. `Felix Stippler, Analyst, Handelsblatt, Handelsblatt. Please unmute your microphone now.
Q - `Felix Stippler, Analyst, Handelsblatt
Good morning. I've got two questions on Neue Klasse. Mr. Zipse, in your statement you said,
demand is already exceeding expectations. Now, I'd like to know, what were your expectations
and by how far were they exceeded? And then, Mr. Mertl, you just mentioned China and Neue
Klasse. Well, what do you expect? How much less bad would it be because of Neue Klasse?
And then I've got two general questions regarding the state of the automobile industry,
Volkswagen and Mercedes. They've got pretty bad figures. You're appearing a little more stable.
Are you still worried about the state of the German automotive industry? And if you look at the
geopolitical situation and sales in China, do you think that European car makers will have to bet
more strongly on Europe, where you also grew strongly?Operator
Thank you, Mr. Stippler. I think I'll pass it to `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management.
Just not getting any sound input. Can you hear me now, Mr. Zipse? Hello, Mr. Stippler? Mr. Stippler,
are you still there? Mr. Stippler, are you still there?
Q - `Felix Stippler, Analyst, Handelsblatt
Yeah, I can hear you now. Thank you a lot.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
I'll try again. Well, with Neue Klasse, our plan was with the iX3 to set a new benchmark. And the
feedback and customer interest is really huge. It's very positive. This concerns the entire concept,
but also individual performance data, the design, the user concept. And this is also reflected in
orders in Europe. They are well above our expectations. For example, one out of three orders
received September in Europe was an iX3.
I mean, you get the idea. We've got 15 all electric vehicles in our portfolio right now. And in the
next few days, the first multipliers, series vehicles will be tested and there'll be comprehensive
reporting which will give us additional tailwind. But that is not supposed to be the end, because in
2026 we'll also be celebrating the BMW i3, not the iX3, but the i3 this day. So that'll be the next
premiere. And we're just electrifying the heart of BMW or we're continuing on that journey, that is.
Do we need to be worried about China? Well, let me combine that with the question about China
and you see Neue Klasse, because it's a global product. Sure, Neue Klasse will also be available
in China. It'll there be enriched by digital solutions that are made in China and for China with the
partners we have there. So it'll be too much of a Chinese product. It'll be a long wheelbase
version. So we're not really that much worried that there won't be any demand for that product.
No, on the contrary, what you're seeing in Europe now, we're expecting the same to also happen
in China.
Do we need to worry about the German automotive industry? Well, it's not our job to be worried.
It's our job to look for attractive products and cater for the markets. And I gave you the figures
before. In Europe, we're growing by almost 2 digit growth rates and we're gaining market share.
So that general concern for everything in the automotive industry, I don't think you need to be
generally worried. Obviously, being competitive in that environment, speed, momentum in
adjustments, that's what's now more important than it was a couple of years ago. So you just
have to switch up the gears.
And do European OEMs have to bet more on Europe? Well, it's always good to be strong in your
home market. You can see our growth here is the strongest apart from the US and the rest of the
world. The home market always has a very special meaning. But that should not lead to a picture
where we should actually withdraw from other regions. I mean, the overall picture shows, if you
want to be resilient, you have to be strong in all regions. And for BMW, that has always applied,
and it will also apply in the future.
Q - `Felix Stippler, Analyst, Handelsblatt
Thank you, Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `Thank you, Mr. Stippler. Can I ask for the next question, please?
Operator
Next question comes from `Frank Volk, Analyst, Automobilwoche from Automobilwoche. Please unmute your microphone
now.
Q - `Frank Volk, Analyst, Automobilwoche `
Good morning, everyone. In connection with Nexperia and the dependencies, battery technology,
rare earth, I have a question on global supply chains in connection with localization. That's -- I
mean, that's been a success factor for BMW. Question is, has that system now reached its limits
where you're becoming vulnerable in terms of industrial policy?
Zipse, you said there's always been supply bottlenecks and we can handle those, but doesn't it
now have a low quality? How that is used as an instrument in global politics? How can you better
prepare yourself for that? I think you also mentioned this in your statement that you want to
increase your flexibility in a supplier network. Can you give us some insights in which direction this
might be going?
And then a question on the EU block. Do you have any hope that your voice will be heard in that
context, that the EU will actually postpone that final date? What is the status of the negotiations
there?
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Volk. We've understood all of your questions. I'll pass both questions to our CEO,
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Mr. Volk, the dependencies, maybe you need to ask that question slightly differently. How do
you best get by, having these dependencies? If you know, we depend on all sorts of things. We
depend on politicians, on supply chains, global value flows, but ultimately, we also depend on our
customers. So the question about the dependencies, for me, that, you know, I always -- I tend to
think, why do you even ask that question?
We are -- we depend on all sorts of things, and the core is, who is best in managing these
dependencies in such a way that it turns into a profitable business model. The question is not
how do I reduce dependencies, but the question is how do I make use of them? So in the end, I
have a profitable business model. Some, a business model that's resilient and future oriented. It
essentially means you need to manage your dependencies. You will never be able to get rid of
them. That's not possible.
In the supplier side, if you run into situations where there's a monopoly, then you have to make
sure that you turn the monopoly into a legal place. So instead of one, you need two or three
partners. And the political dependencies, you need to talk to people. And let me combine that
with your second question, CO2 regulation, which only looks at the tailpipe and they're hoping to
bring this down to zero percent. And this does not reflect. It doesn't reflect the reality. It will
actually lead to the opposite.
I don't think this will achieve any substantial CO2 reductions because the customer, and the
customer, that's the greatest dependency we have. The customer always has the possibility to
just continue driving their old car. But I think with the lifecycle approach, we've actually chosen avery good approach and we can be much faster if we manage this type of dependency in a
better way, Mr. Volk.
And then the dependencies, especially when it comes to semiconductors, when it comes to
cloud-based digital services, when it comes to batteries, all that matters is to make these more
resilient. Reducing these dependencies would directly lead to a situation in which we can no
longer innovate and in which we would no longer be competitive. And if you don't recognize this,
then you probably have a greater problem in taking your successful business model into the
future. But what's also important for me is that you recognize these dependencies.
And this brings me to the Brussels regulations. Then I will not take that technology as the only
admissible technology where I have the greatest dependency. I'm talking about dependency in
terms of batteries because most of that is outside of Europe. So presumably, that's the largest
step you can take. Don't just bet on one horse. And this also applies to politics.
Operator
Thank you, Oliver. Thank you, Mr. Volk. The next question, please.
Next question is by `Sebastien Ash, Analyst, Financial Times from Financial Times. Please unmute your microphone now.
Q - `Sebastien Ash, Analyst, Financial Times `
Hi, everyone, and thank you for the information you've provided with -- to us so far. Mr. Zipse, you
fairly strongly criticized the idea of stronger regulation of corporate fleet emissions in the
European Union. Now, this seems to be almost being prepared as an exchange for a weakening
of the 2035 target for consumers more generally. I mean, could you just give me your thoughts
on how you would see or how you would look at a situation in which, on the one hand, 2035 was
weakened, but on the other hand, the corporate goals were strengthened once again? Thank
you.
Operator
Thank you. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Thank you for the question. Now, to clarify this, we're not asking for the targets to be weakened.
We're asking for a different regime as to how these targets can be achieved. The way we put it,
these targets can be achieved much more easily if they don't just focus on tailpipe emissions.
And this applies to the fleet as well as to private cars, because currently all that's done is they're
measuring tailpipe. But that's wrong, because it leaves out of account all other people
possibilities of reducing CO2 within that regulation.
For example, it doesn't matter if today, an OEM buys green steel, that's not part of today's fleet
regulation. It's irrelevant. And we believe, it is important -- I mean, the greening of supply chains,
where does the green power come from? That should be part of that regulation to provide
incentives. What we are asking for is a new regulation that is more effective and greening the
fleet, I mean, which is pretty strong. It's pretty strong in Europe. In almost all major European
countries, there's very large vehicle fleets.
And to prescribe in that field, which technology has to be applied regardless of the framework
conditions is at least as wrong as the tailpipe regulation. The better thing to do would be to
prescribe that CO2 regulation is such that you need to have improvements every day and thenthe reporting CSRD, that should be combined with the fleet regulation. BMW Group today already
reports its Scope 1, 2 and 3 CO2 reductions. And the success we have, we're continuously going
down.
All forecasts show that we are dramatically reducing our CO2 footprint, Scope 2, 3, and
upstream. But usually that is irrelevant, although we are reporting this. So that is in a way a little
absurd. You're reporting something, but it has no effect. And we just want to combine those two
in this way to arrive at a much better solution instead of having single solutions. And the current
regulation on the corporate fleet actually achieves the opposite because it prescribes something.
In that case, it tells companies what they have to do regardless of whether the CO2 reduction is
actually happening or not.
Operator
Thank you, Oliver. We've now got three questions left. Well, three. So next question, please.
Next question. That's `Regina Ehm-Klier, Analyst, Passauer Neue Presse from Passauer Neue Presse, (inaudible). Please unmute
your microphone now.
Q - `Regina Ehm-Klier, Analyst, Passauer Neue Presse
Good morning. I have a question that relates to becoming climate neutral. Debrecen is the first
fossil free plant. Will further sites follow? Have you got something in the pipeline here? And next
question is about less costly models. People say that German cars are too expensive. Is BMW
working on a more low cost alternative? And then next question, that's about the dealer network.
BMW wants to switch to an agency model. Is that still what you're planning to do or are you going
to postpone that? Thank you.
Operator
Let's begin. Thank you, Ms. Ehm-Klier. Debrecen and more inexpensive models. And then the
agency model, that'll be `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Ms. Ehm-Klier, I explicitly like to thank you for your question. Debrecen is the first fossil free
plant with clearly reduced CO2 emissions and targets also. And these targets, well we've got
those for every existing site. And I like that question because the reduction that we're doing
there, by the way, between that on our own free volition, because we are really convinced
climate protectors, but these have no effect on the fleet regulation. Do you understand whether
we do this or not? Except for the fact that we're reporting it, it has no effect whatsoever and this
is why we're asking for a new regulation.
So that's something like Debrecen or something what we do here in Munich where we're
switching entirely to electrified vehicles, that this actually has a value and something that's
reflected. So if somebody makes more efforts, you should have a higher chance to avoid a
possible penalty payment. So thank you so much for your question. And as you know, we are right
on track fulfilling all of the targets, Scope 1, 2 and 3, including CO2 fleet targets. So we're really
doing extremely well.
Now, less costly models, well, they already exist today. The all electric ones and the hybrid ones
and also the ICEs, that's the MINI brand. The MINI brand is highly attractive. And the only thing that
makes these cars expensive at the moment is a penalty custom tariff of more than 30% for themore expensive and that is obviously to the detriment of the consumers. That's why we think that
this regulation is highly detrimental to our customers. Namely, to be able to offer low cost or
more inexpensive cost to our customers.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Then the status of the agency model. Yes, happy to answer that as Mr. `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer, because with
many direct sales in Europe, we started that quite successfully in January 2024. And the last
European markets to go went live this year in the summer of 2025 and this is quite successful. All
is going according to plan in the first six months '24. Some fine tuning was still necessary. This is
why it was a staggered go live. And this is a successful concept, that we will also roll out for BMW.
It'll take a bit of time. We need to upscale it and we need to prepare the contracts finalized and
for BMW, we will also introduce that in Europe.
Operator
Thank you, Walter. Next question please.
Next question is from `Thibaut Madelin, Analyst, Les Echos from Les Echos. Please unmute your microphone now.
Q - `Thibaut Madelin, Analyst, Les Echos
Good morning. I hope you can hear me.
Operator
Yes, we do. We hear you.
Q - `Thibaut Madelin, Analyst, Les Echos
Thank you for taking my question. Actually, it's two questions. Is there already a price for Neue
Klasse in China? And if not, could you just give us an idea of what the price will be? And then on
steel, tomorrow, we'll have the Steel Summit in Berlin. What are your expectations?
Operator
Walter will begin with the Steel Summit.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, Mr. Madelin, the Steel Summit is something we welcome, of course. We welcome that
politics has now recognized that supply chains, resilience, competitiveness, that all of these are
so important for central industries such as steel, but also chemistry or the automotive industry is
highly relevant. So that's why we welcome this discussion. Of course, you need to protect
yourself from unfair competition, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't do everything you can in
order to stay competitive. And I think we need to continue to work on that.
The industry, as such, it applies to us also. But we need to have, despite difficult framework
conditions, we have to remain competitive. That's something that's got to be said in addition to
all of these protective mechanisms that people also like to discuss. And then the prices for Neue
Klasse in China, it's a very attractive product offering, or will be, but we haven't actually fixed the
prices yet. But of course, it will be quite competitive.
OperatorThank you. Let's turn to the last request for the floor. Last question comes from Christoph
Ruhlmeyer, DPA. Please unmute your microphone now.
Q - `Christoph Ruhlmeyer, Analyst, DPA
Good morning, it's me again. Maybe a good question to finish off with because it's quite global.
When I look at your figures and what the outcome will be for the year, if compare that to '22, it
looks much worse. If I compare to the time before that, it's actually looking quite normal. '22, '23,
that was a very special situation, obviously. Now, if I were to ask you now, crisis, is this now a time
of crisis for BMW? Because in the industry, when we talk about the crisis. But now if you could
answer that for BMW, are you in a state of crisis or is this normal?
Operator
Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Mr. Ruhlmeyer, you've never heard us speak of a crisis before. A crisis is, if you don't know
what to do anymore, that's a crisis. I think Corona was when we had a standstill on all plants. That
was a crisis, because we didn't know how that was going to end. We didn't know when we could
reopen the plants. But in the last two or three years, you've never heard us speak out the word
crisis. And business results, they are as they are.
I mean, we work for them hard every year. And in 2022, '23, there were always special effects. In
'22, we had a special effect of EUR7 billion. That was when the 75% majority in BBA (inaudible) we
had a special effect, so that perhaps can't be compared. And in '23, there was the semiconductor
situation, which reminds me of Nexperia. So every year is a little different.
I don't really think you can compare the years directly. We're satisfied with what we're doing here
in Munich. Could it be better? Yes, of course, it could. But the entrepreneurial job is to just -- in the
environment you find, you know, it's neutral. You just have to work with it. Never just talk about a
crisis all the time. As you can see, in Europe, individual mobility still has a very large demand in the
market and globally, it's even associated with growth. So we would not want to speak of a crisis in
a situation today.
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Ruhlmeyer. Thank you for the last question. I think that kind of rounds off our
telephone conference today pretty well. So thank you, colleagues, for your questions. All the best
to you and I'm sure, we'll see each other soon. (inaudible) and goodbye.