Q3 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon and welcome to AstraZeneca's Nine Months and Q3 2025 Webinar for Investors
and Analysts. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The
company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties and may be influenced by factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements. Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and
information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update
forward-looking statements.
Please carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the slide deck that
accompanies this presentation and webcast. There will be an opportunity to ask questions after
today's presentation. Please use the raise a hand feature to indicate you wish to ask a question at
any time during the call.And with that, I'd now like to hand the conference over to the Head of Investor Relations at
AstraZeneca, `Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations.
`Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
A very warm welcome to AstraZeneca's year-to-date and third quarter 2025 presentation,
conference call and webcast for investors and analysts. I'm `Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. And before I hand over to Pascal and other members of our executive team, I'd like to
cover some important housekeeping items.
Firstly, all of the materials presented today are already available on our AstraZeneca Investor
Relations website.
Next slide, please. This slide contains our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking
statements, including the Safe Harbor provision, which I'd encourage you to take the time to read
carefully. We will be making comments on our performance using constant exchange rates or
CER, core financial numbers and other non-GAAP measures. A non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliation
is as usual contained within our results announcement.
All numbers quoted are in millions of US dollars unless otherwise stated.
Next slide, please. This slide shows the agenda for today's call. And following our prepared
remarks, we'll open the line for questions. As usual, we will try and cover as many questions as
we can during the allotted time, although please limit the number of questions that you asked to
allow others a fair chance to participate in the Q&A.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy. And welcome, everyone. I'm pleased to report that our strong growth
momentum and pipeline delivery have continued through the first nine months of 2025. Total
revenue grew by 11%, driven by continued demand for innovative medicines, and core EPS
increased by 15%.
Since our full year results in February, we've achieved 31 regulatory approvals across key regions
and the pace at which we are bringing new medicines to patients continues to accelerate.
Importantly, we've announced positive results from 16 Phase 3 trials and 6 of our datasets were
presented in plenary sessions at major congresses, a clear reflection of the importance of this
data to the medical community.
Please advance to the next slide. Combined, our global reach and diverse sources of revenue are
significant strengths, ensuring low concentration risk and resilience to regional disruptions.
We have continued to deliver strong growth across therapy areas and geographies. In the first
nine months, our oncology franchise grew by 16%, reflecting the ongoing demand for our
medicines across the globe.
Our biopharmaceuticals and rare disease franchises were also up 8% and 6%, respectively, with
strong growth from our newer medicines more than offsetting the loss of exclusivity of a limited
number of mature brands, including, Brilinta, Pulmicort and Soliris.
Importantly, we continue to see robust growth across all key geographies, particularly in the US
and the emerging markets outside of China, where revenues were up 11% and 21%, respectively.Please move to the next slide. We are in a unique catalyst-rich period, one that I'm excited to say
looks set to continue well beyond 2026. Shown here are the high-value positive studies we've
announced in 2025. And as you can see, we are delivering success across all of our key therapy
areas.
Since our last quarterly update, we've announced four additional positive Phase 3 study readouts.
DESTINY-Breast05, together with DESTINY-Breast11 that read-out earlier this year, marks an
important advance for patients with early HER2-positive breast cancer that could potentially
benefit from HER2.
TROPION-Breast02 has the potential to establish Datroway as a new standard of care in triple-
negative breast cancer. The Bax24 trial results reinforce the best-in-class profile of baxdrostat in
treatment-resistant hypertension. And finally, TULIP-SC will enable us to bring a more convenient
subcutaneous administration of Saphnelo to SLE patients. All these positive Phase 3 readouts
continue to give us confidence towards our $80 billion 2030 ambition.
Next slide, please. I'd like to address recent developments for AstraZeneca in the United States.
The US remains our largest market and is projected to account for around 50% of our total
revenue by 2030.
We announced a landmark agreement with the US government, which provides greater clarity
around pricing and a three-year exemption from tariffs. The agreement will lower the cost of
many prescription medicines for American patients, while safeguarding America's cutting-edge
biopharmaceutical (inaudible).
With the administration support, we are now working with others to deliver price equalization
across wealthier markets, an approach that offers a more sustainable future for governments,
industry and patients. In addition, we continue to focus on clinical trial diversity and further
enhancing our clinical trial footprint in the US.
To support our growth ambitions, we've been steadily expanding our global manufacturing
capacity, including broadening our US footprint over the last several years. Last month, I was
pleased to break ground on our new Virginia facility joined by Senator Lutnik, Governor Youngkin
and Dr. Oz.
And lastly, I'm grateful for our shareholders to voting through our proposal to harmonize our
listing structure in London, Stockholm and New York. AstraZeneca ordinary shares will be listed on
the New York Stock Exchange from February next year. This new listing structure will offer
flexibility to access the broadest available pool of capital, including in the US, and enable more
shareholders to participate in AstraZeneca's exciting future.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Aradhana.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal. And good morning/good afternoon, everyone. As usual, I will start with our
reported P&L.
Next slide, please. Total revenue increased by 11% in the first nine months. Product sales grew by
9%, with strong growth seen across the business in key regions. Alliance revenue increased by
41%, driven by continued growth for both Enhertu and Tezspire in regions where our partners
book product sales.Next slide, please. This is our core P&L. Our core gross margin in the first nine months was 83%.
We continue to anticipate a slight decrease in the core gross margin for the full year versus 2024
due to the Medicare Part D reform, Brilinta LOE, Soliris biosimilars and increased profit-sharing
from partnered products.
Similar to prior years, we anticipate the core gross margin in the fourth quarter to be lower than in
the third quarter, driven by the usual seasonal pattern with more sales from lower-margin
products like FluMist and Beyfortus.
R&D expenses increased by 16% in the first nine months, driven by sustained high activity,
including many clinical trials having enrolled ahead of plan. We've also made significant
investments in high-value pipeline opportunities, such as our IO bispecifics, weight management
and cell therapy portfolios. As a percentage of total revenue, core R&D costs accounted for
23.3% and we continue to expect R&D to land at the upper end of the low-20s percentage range
for the full year.
We have continued to make progress towards our 2026 margin goal and remain on-track, as you
can see from our nine-month results with core operating margin at 33.3%. Operating leverage
continues to remain a focus internally. And again, as you can see from the first nine months,
product revenue grew at 11% and SG&A grew at 3%.
Core EPS of $7.04 represents CER growth of 15%.
Next slide, please. We have seen strong cash flow inflow from operating activities in the year-to-
date, up by 37% versus the prior year to $12.2 billion, driven by robust underlying business
momentum.
In the year-to-date, we saw CapEx of $2.1 billion and, as previously-stated, we anticipate an
increase of around 50% for the full year versus 2024, which implies a step up in the fourth
quarter, which also is normal as in prior years.
Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. We currently have interest-bearing debt of
close to $33 billion, which is a level we're comfortable with as we plan to continue making
investments to support future growth, build our supply chain globally, and further strengthen our
R&D pipeline.
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio currently stands at 1.2 times.
Turning to guidance, today, we are reiterating our full-year guidance with total revenue and core
EPS anticipated to increase by high-single-digit and low-double-digit percentage, respectively, at
constant exchange rates. We expect our strong revenue momentum in growth brands to
continue.
I would like to remind you that, in the fourth quarter of 2024, we booked more than $800 million
in sales-based milestones under collaboration revenue. This year, we do not anticipate any
significant milestone revenue in the fourth quarter, which will affect the year-over-year growth
rate comparisons for the fourth quarter.
In addition, in China, while growth has been strong throughout the year, fourth quarter revenues
are anticipated to be affected by VBP associated stock compensation, costs for Farxiga, Lynparza
and roxadustat, and the usual year-end hospital budget capping, in addition to tender order
variability in emerging markets.Similar to prior years, we also anticipate a sequential step-up in both R&D and SG&A expenses in
the fourth quarter versus third quarter.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Dave, who will take you
through the incredible performance of our oncology and hematology business.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thank you, Aradhana. Next slide, please. Oncology total revenue grew 16% in the first nine
months to $18.6 billion with broad-based double-digit growth across US, Europe and emerging
markets. The US, in particular, continued to report strong year-over-year growth of 19%,
highlighting robust demand for our medicines, which substantially outpaced the increased
liabilities resulting from Medicare Part D redesign. Emerging markets also delivered impressive
performance, with 20% growth during the period.
Focusing on third quarter performance, we achieved robust 18% growth for the second quarter in
a row. Tagrisso delivered sales of $1.9 billion in the third quarter, representing 10% growth on the
prior year. Widespread demand across all major regions reinforces Tagrisso's role as the
backbone of care for eGFR-mutated lung cancer.
The first line lung cancer combination market continues to expand with FLAURA2 the clear leader
in terms of new patient starts and total scripts. The compelling overall survival results presented
at the World Congress of Lung Cancer and subsequently published in the New England Journal of
Medicine will drive further leadership.
Calquence remains the leading BTK inhibitor in first line CLL across major markets, with total
revenues increasing by 11% to $916 million in the third quarter. In the US, we continue to see
increased demand more than offset the impact of Part D redesign with improved market share
versus the same period last year. We're seeing positive early signs of adoption for AMPLIFY in
Europe and expect this trajectory to continue through the remainder of the year with the US
launch anticipated in the first half of 2026.
Lynparza, which remains the leading PARP inhibitor globally, delivered revenues of $837 million in
the third quarter, up 5% year-on-year with consistent growth across key regions. Truqap total
revenues of $193 million in the third quarter represented 54% growth versus Q3 last year.
With the AKT, PTEN biomarker altered population almost fully penetrated, growth is now primarily
driven by increased uptake of the PIK3CA population and ongoing launches in developed and
emerging markets.
This was another outstanding quarter for our IO franchise with growth of Imfinzi and Imjudo of
31% and 14%, respectively. We see continued enthusiasm for Imfinzi in the new lung indications
ADRIATIC and AEGEAN and in bladder cancer with NIAGARA, alongside further expansion in our
more established indications such as HIMALAYA and CASPIAN. We are also starting to see early
signs of adoption of MATTERHORN in the US following its Category 1 NCCN guideline inclusion
and eagerly await regulatory decisions.
In HER2, total revenues grew 39% in the third quarter, with ongoing launches of the DESTINY-
Breast06 indication, further strengthening our leadership position in HER2 low metastatic breast
cancer. The strong initial uptake in China following NRDL enlistment has persisted through Q3 as
we achieve even broader coverage and continue to drive adoption. Positive readouts across
HER2-positive breast cancer at ASCO and ESMO are anticipated to further drive growth, with
data now spanning across the spectrum of HER2-positive disease.And finally, Datroway continues to make inroads in hormone receptor positive breast cancer
across the US and Europe. In this quarter, we have started to see encouraging early signals of
uptake in the previously-treated EGFR mutated lung cancer space following US approval and
NCCN guideline inclusion. We are confident in carrying our strong performance from the first nine
months through to year-end as we continue to expand the reach of our innovative medicines.
With that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Susan to cover key R&D
highlights from the quarter.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. Just over two weeks ago, at the European Society of Medical Oncology,
AstraZeneca delivered multiple pivotal datasets with the potential to reshape clinical practice,
including two featured in presidential sessions. This underscores the quality and breadth of our
science and reinforces AstraZeneca's leadership in bringing new advances to patients worldwide.
DESTINY-Breast11 and 05 advance in HER2 into the early treatment setting for HER2-positive
breast cancer, highlighting its potential to become a foundational therapy in early disease and
ultimately increasing the likelihood that more patients could be cured of breast cancer.
In DESTINY-Breast11 treatment within HER2 followed by THP prior to surgery resulted in a
pathologic complete response rate of 67% in patients with high-risk HER2-positive early-stage
breast cancer, the highest-ever reported rate in a Phase 3 registrational trial in this setting. We
also saw an early trend towards an event-free survival benefit within HER2 followed by THP.
Importantly, this regimen demonstrated a favorable safety profile versus the five-drug AC-THP
regimen with lower rates of Grade 3 or higher adverse events, serious adverse events and
treatment interruptions. This makes DESTINY-Breast11 the first regimen in over a decade to
significantly improve outcomes in the earliest treatment setting for HER2-positive breast cancer
and these data are now under FDA review.
In DESTINY-Breast05 in HER2 reduced the risk of disease recurrence or death by 53% compared
to TDM1 in patients with high-risk HER2-positive early breast cancer following neoadjuvant
therapy, with over 92% of patients treated within HER2 free of invasive disease at three years.
This dataset offers a critical second opportunity to reduce recurrence risk in this patient
population.
Taken together, DESTINY-Breast11 and 05 have the potential to transform early-stage HER2-
positive breast cancer by reducing metastatic recurrence and bringing patients closer to cure,
and this represents a blockbuster opportunity across the alliance.
We also shared data from the TROPION-Breast02 trial, which evaluated Datroway versus
chemotherapy as a first-line treatment for patients with locally recurrent inoperable or metastatic
triple-negative breast cancer, for whom immunotherapy is not an option. These patients typically
have poor outcomes with the current standard of care and five-year overall survival rates of just
15%.
TB02 included those with the poorest prognosis often excluded from clinical trials, such as
patients with a short disease-free interval and those presenting with brain metastases at
baseline. In TBo2, Datroway delivered an unprecedented five-month improvement in median
overall survival versus chemotherapy, along with a statistically significant and clinically meaningful
43% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death.In addition, almost two-thirds of patients experienced a complete or partial response to
Datroway, double the rate seen with chemotherapy alongside a manageable safety profile, low
rates of discontinuation and no treatment-related deaths. These data clearly differentiate
Datroway and, together with its convenient three-weekly dosing, position it to reshape the TNBC
landscape for the 70% of first-line patients who are not suitable for immune checkpoint inhibitors.
Our other key Phase 3 readout at ESMO was POTOMAC. This trial moves Imfinzi earlier-stage
bladder cancer, demonstrating that adding one year of Imfinzi to BCG induction and maintenance
therapy delivers both early and sustained disease-free survival benefits with a 32% reduction in
risk of occurrence or death compared to BCG alone in high-risk non-muscle invasive bladder
cancer.
With this Imfinzi regimen, 87% of patients remained alive and disease-free at two years,
highlighting its potential to change the trajectory for these patients and further building on
Imfinzi's impact in muscle invasive disease as shown in NIAGARA.
These results reinforce the strength of our bladder program and we very much look forward to
data from the VOLGA trial in cisplatin-ineligible muscle invasive bladder cancer, which is now
expected in the first half of next year.
In addition, we presented Phase 3 data from CAPItello-281 for Truqap in combination with
abiraterone and androgen deprivation therapy in PTEN-deficient metastatic hormone-sensitive
prostate cancer. Taken together, these pivotal datasets strongly support our strategy to advance
novel therapies into earlier-stage disease where they have the greatest potential to improve
patients' lives.
We also presented significant new data at ESMO across our early programs, including first-in-
human results for our folate receptor alpha ADC, AZD5335, (inaudible) in platinum-resistant
relapsed ovarian cancer.
New data for our PARP1 selective inhibitor saruparib in combination with androgen receptor
pathway inhibitors in metastatic prostate cancer, updated findings for rilvegostomig in checkpoint
inhibitor naive lung cancer, which compares favorably to current PD-1 based therapies, and
encouraging new results for the combination of rilvegostomig and Datroway in bladder cancer. All
these results build our confidence in the long-term strength of our pipeline, positioning us to
deliver innovation well beyond 2030.
Before closing, I want to highlight the upcoming American Society of Hematology Meeting in
December, where we will present updates of our CD19/CD3 Cell engager surovatamig and our
CD19 BCMA dual CAR-T AZD0120.
These pipeline assets both have $5 billion-plus non-risk adjusted peak year revenue potential and
will build our position in hematologic malignancies with the opportunity to set new standards
across this space.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
biopharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. Next slide, please. Our biopharmaceuticals medicines delivered a
strong performance in the year-to-date with total revenue reaching $17.1 billion, reflecting growth
of 8%.Starting with R&I, we saw growth of 40% in the quarter, driven by strong performances across our
inhaled and biologic portfolio. The growth medicines now constitute over 60% of the therapy
area's revenue and have grown at an impressive rate of 30% year-to-date. Our products now
make up half the new-to-brand prescriptions for the severe asthma biologics segment in several
markets.
Fasenra continues to lead in eosinophilic asthma. We were pleased to see growth accelerating to
20% in the quarter with Fasenra's product profile being strengthened by uptake in EGPA and our
first revenues from China.
Tezspire continues its rapid market share gains in severe asthma, with 47% growth in the quarter.
Its growth potential has been further enhanced by recent approvals in the United States and the
EU for chronic rhinositis with nasal polyps based on the WAYPOINT trial, which demonstrated a
significant reduction in nasal polyp size and nearly eliminated the need for surgery.
Breztri grew at 20%, driven by market share gains in the growing triple class. All revenues today
come from COPD patients and we have now filed regulatory submissions for asthma in all major
regions following the positive readouts from the KALOS/LOGOS trials.
We are pleased to receive a positive CHMP recommendation for our next-generation propellant,
which has 99.9% lower global warming potential, a key milestone towards our company's
sustainability goals. Breztri will be the first of our inhaled medicines to transition to the next-
generation propellants.
Saphnelo, our biologic medicine for SLE, continues to win share in the intravenous segment of the
market and grew at 44% in the quarter. In September, we announced positive high-level results
based on the interim analysis from the TULIP-SC study, which paves the way for Saphnelo to
reach SLE patients who prefer a subcutaneous option. TULIP-SC recently received a positive
CHMP recommendation in the EU.
Total revenue from the CVRM therapy area was flat in the quarter, reflecting the loss of exclusivity
for Brilinta, which saw a revenue decline of 56%. Farxiga delivered 8% growth despite a slight
decline in Europe due to the earlier-than-expected entry of generic competition in the United
Kingdom.
Lokelma grew 30%, maintaining its leading share in the potassium binder class for chronic kidney
disease and heart failure patients. In anticipation of further growth for Lokelma, we were excited
to have recently opened an expanded manufacturing facility in Texas.
In addition to the strong product performances in the year-to-date, I'm also particularly excited to
see the number of high-value biopharma trials due to readout in 2026.
And with that, I will now hand over to Sharon to discuss the latest developments for baxdrostat,
the next NME we anticipate to launch in biopharma with more than $5 billion peak year revenue
potential.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Thank you, Ruud. Next slide, please. At AstraZeneca, our ambition is to transform care across
interconnected cardio, renal and metabolic diseases where multiple risk drivers and organ
systems overlap. Hypertension is a key part of this challenge and, in the past 20 years, there has
been very limited innovation.For example, around half of patients currently treated in the US remain uncontrolled while on
multiple medicines. Baxdrostat is designed precisely for these patients. As a reminder, baxdrostat
is a once-daily, highly selective and potent aldosterone synthase inhibitor, targeting the
aldosterone pathway at its source. Excess aldosterone is well-established as a driver of
hypertension and broader cardiorenal disease.
By limiting aldosterone production, baxdrostat provides a clean, targeted mechanism that has the
potential to enable more patients to reach their treatment goals, particularly those with
uncontrolled or resistant hypertension.
In the third quarter, we presented the first Phase 3 data for baxdrostat monotherapy with the
BaxHTN trial at the European Society of Cardiology. We were also delighted to report the positive
high-level results for the Phase 3 Bax24 trial. Collectively, these readouts reinforce our confidence
in baxdrostat's more than $5 billion potential as a franchise.
In the BaxHTN trial for patients with uncontrolled and treatment-resistant hypertension on
maximally tolerated background therapy, baxdrostat delivered the largest systolic blood pressure
reduction reported in a primary analysis to date.
At 12 weeks, placebo-adjusted reductions were 8.7 and 9.8 mmHg on the 1 and 2 milligram doses,
respectively. Responses were highly consistent across pre-specified subgroups and we saw
powerful target engagement with a 60% to 65% reduction in serum aldosterone at week 12.
Importantly, this reduction was sustained over time. Furthermore, in the randomized withdrawal
period, patients continuing baxdrostat saw further reductions in blood pressure out to 32 weeks.
Baxdrostat also demonstrated a favorable tolerability profile. Adverse events were mostly mild
with no off-target hormonal effects and no clinically-relevant drug-drug interactions observed.
Confirmed hyperkalemia above 6 mmol/L was 1.1% in both dose arms and we saw low
discontinuation rates of 0.8% and 1.5% for the 1 and 2 mg doses respectively.
24-hour control of hypertension matters clinically. Early-morning blood pressure variability is
strongly correlated to the risk of cardiovascular events, so sustained control of blood pressure
between doses is important.
Baxdrostat's long half-life is a key differentiator. In an ambulatory substudy of BaxHTN, we saw
substantial reductions in 24-hour average and nighttime systolic blood pressure. Building on this,
we recently reported positive high-level results from the Phase 3 Bax24 trial, which was
conducted in the most difficult-to-treat patients, those with resistant hypertension.
In Bax24, baxdrostat demonstrated a statistically significant and highly clinically meaningful
reduction in ambulatory 24-hour average systolic blood pressure. Efficacy was observed across
the entire 24-hour period, including early morning.
We look forward to sharing these exciting data with the medical community at the American
Heart Association this coming weekend. These results solidify baxdrostat's potential as a first and
best-in-class option for patients with uncontrolled and resistant hypertension, offering convenient
once-a-day dosing with sustained blood pressure control around the clock.
We are advancing our regulatory filings and rapidly progressing our robust clinical development
program for baxdrostat both as a monotherapy and in combination with dapagliflozin.
And with that, please proceed to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Marc to cover rare disease.Thank you, Sharon. Can I get the next slide, please? Rare disease medicine grew 6% to $6.8
billion in the first nine months of the year, driven by growth in neurology indications, increased
patient demand and continued global expansion.
In the third quarter, Ultomiris grew 17%, driven by patient demand across indication, including the
competitive MG and PNH markets.
Soliris revenues continues to decline due to the successful conversion to Ultomiris as well as
biosimilar pressure in Europe.
Strensiq grew 28% and Koselugo grew by 79%, respectively, due to strong underlying demand
for these medicines. Koselugo's growth also benefited from some tender orders in emerging
markets.
We continue to see great momentum across the rare disease portfolio with recent approval for
Koselugo and Ultomiris that further our geographic reach for this medicine.
Please advance to the next slide. We presented data from our Phase 3 PREVAIL trial investigating
gefurulimab, a novel dual-binding nanobody targeting C5 in patients with generalized myasthenia
gravis. Gefurulimab demonstrated 1.6 point improvement from baseline placebo-adjusted in
myasthenia gravis activities of the living total score at week 26. The MG-ADL total score change
from baseline reached 4.2 points at week 26 in the gefurulimab treated patients.
A clinically meaningful improvement in MG-ADL total score was observed as early as week 1 and
was sustained through week 26. Gefurulimab demonstrated rapid, complete and sustained
complement inhibition. Gefurulimab also met all secondary endpoints, including quantitative
myasthenia gravis total score where gefurulimab demonstrated 2.1-point improvement at week
26 compared to placebo. A pre-specified measurement at week 4 also met statistical
significance, again demonstrating the rapid onset of action of gefurulimab in patients with gMG.
The PREVAIL trial was conducted in a broader gMG patient population compared with prior trials
of C5-targeted therapies. Gefurulimab is a convenient, self-administered, subcutaneous, once-a-
week treatment with the potential for two delivery option, a prefilled syringe and auto-injector,
which would be the first in gMG.
We believe that the strength of this data and convenient administration, gefurulimab has the
potential to become a new first-line therapy following immunosuppressive therapies.
I also wanted to update on other important Phase 3 data we had this year. Analysis of the 52
weeks results from the CALYPSO trial to further characterize eneboparatide are ongoing. We will
continue monitoring this patients into open label extension.
For anselamimab, we have shared clinical results from the Phase 3 CARES program with
regulatory authorities. Following further discussion, we plan to submit for the pre-specified
patient subgroup in which anselamimab demonstrated a highly significant improvement in post-
time to all-cause mortality and frequency of cardiovascular hospitalization compared to placebo.
And finally, efzimfotase alfa, we expect to announce results from all Phase 3 studies, HICKORY,
CHESTNUT and MULBERRY, in the first half of next year. Together, these three trials cover
patients across pediatric, adolescent and adult hypophosphatasia population.
And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand over to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Marc. Next slide, please. As I mentioned at the start of this call, we're in the midst of
an unprecedented catalyst rich period, one which is anticipated to extend through 2026 and
beyond. We look forward to exciting readouts in each of our key therapy areas in 2026, which on
a combined basis represent a risk-adjusted peak year revenue opportunity of more than $10
billion.
Our exceptional performance for the first nine months saw us deliver a core operating margin of
33.3%. This is a clear demonstration that, despite the opportunities to invest in this rich pipeline,
we remain committed to driving operating leverage and we remain on track for both our 2026
margin target of mid-30s and our $80 billion 2030 revenue ambition.
Next slide, please. In closing, I'm very pleased to report that we are making exciting progress
across our transformative technologies, which have the potential to drive AstraZeneca's growth
well beyond 2030.
We are moving at pace with our oral PCSK9 inhibitor, laroprovstat, and now we have three Phase
3 trials ongoing and we are looking forward to the results from our Phase 2 trials across our
weight management portfolio next year.
We're driving forward with our ADC and our radioconjugate portfolio with the first Phase 3 of our
fully-owned ADC sone-vedo reading in the first half of next year.
Supporting our ambition to replace current immune checkpoint inhibitors with next-generation
bispecifics, we now have 14 Phase 3 trials underway for rilvegostomig and volrustomig.
And we are continuing to strengthen our hematology portfolio with our first Phase 3 trial already
underway for our CD19/CD3 T cell engager surovatamig and we are planning to advance our
CD9/BCMA CAR-T AZD0120 into Phase next year.
And lastly, our first gene therapy is now entering the clinic.
And with that, please advance to the next slide and we will move to the Q&A. As Andy mentioned
at the start of the call, please limit the number of questions you asked to allow others a fair
chance to participate. For those online, please use the raise hand function on Zoom. And with
that, let's move to the first question.
Questions And Answers
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Our first question is from `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, Jefferies at Jefferies. Over to you, Michael.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thank you, Pascal. Two questions for you, please. One, thank you for the comments around the
environment in Washington. I was just wondering if you could comment on what is the risk of
residual activity coming from the administration? How confident are you that the deal that
AstraZeneca has managed to secure removes enough of the overhang, so we don't have to look
over our shoulders constantly as we think about R&D productivity and the cost of innovation?
And the second question for you, Pascal, the $10 billion number that you just mentioned in terms
of the catalyst potential coming out of the '27, '28 period, is that part of the $80 billion or is that
incremental potential already on top of that? Thank you.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Michael. So the first question there, what I would say about this is that we have
addressed the four points in the President's letter and the four points, as you know, they covered
Medicaid, they covered prospective equalization, direct-to-consumer and also returning to the US
government some of the potential price increases for existing products. And so, we've covered
all of this. So, now, our expectation is that essentially we have an agreement with the US
government and we do not expect anything more to come.
But, of course, we are not the government. So we cannot guarantee anything. We can only say
that our expectation from the discussions we've had, our expectation is that this agreement is
delivering what the President was looking to achieve.
On the $10 billion, this is part of our $80 billion. This is a -- this is, by the way, not a 2030 number.
It's a peak year revenue number. It's a risk-adjusted $10 billion. But certainly, it will contribute to
achieving our 2030 ambition.
There is more to come. We have a number of readouts next year. From the readouts, we expect
another actually $11 billion of risk-adjusted sales to come out of these readouts. Assuming, of
course, they are positive, we could get even more.
So as I said before, it is quite unprecedented for us as a company to have such a rich a series of
readouts across not only oncology, but also hematology, cardiovascular disease, respiratory
disease, immunology, rare disease. So, really, I would say the company is firing from all engines in
terms of our ability to innovate and come up with new products.
So with this, I'll move to `Sarita Kapila, Analyst, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Sarita, over to you.
Q - `Sarita Kapila, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question and the comments on 2026 margins. Perhaps you could indicate
your level of comfort on where 2026 consensus sits at the low-end at 34% and talk about the
step-up to get there. And then, more broadly, could you speak about the pushes and pulls please
on 2026 margin?
And then secondly, there's been a lot of investor focus on the Roche persevERA trial coming in
Q1 '26, which is looking at giredestrant in all-comer breast cancer. Could you talk about the
potential read across to camizestrant? Are there any notable differences between the molecules
or any differences in the trial design that could increase chances of SERENA-4 success versus
persevERA and why it may not be a good read? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sarita. So, really, three great questions. The first two, Aradhana, can you cover? And,
Susan, can you pick up the persevERA question and read out up to camizestrant?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Sarita. So as you've seen, we've had very strong momentum in all our growth
brands. And with this momentum going into the year-end, we hope it continues and expected to
continue in all markets and all the brands.
The key headwind in 2026 will really be the loss of Farxiga in both US as well as China. And that's
something that we had anticipated and are obviously planning around. We're right now goingthrough our budget process and we'll take all these different pushes and pulls as well as the
recent agreement with the US government and all those impacts into account, as we set our
budget
We will continue to invest behind growth brands and plan for new launches such as baxdrostat,
cami and Datro. And given all the portfolio, I think we'll continue to invest in R&D towards the
high-end of the 20%, given all the progress in the ADC and the cardiovascular and weight
management portfolio. So those are some of the pushes and pulls.
And you've seen the performance and the continuous margin progression as well as the SG&A,
which we have maintained a very strong leverage over and R&D obviously is where we always
find great opportunities. So while we remain disciplined, we're going to continue investing behind
that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you. Just before Susan covers the next point, I think Aradhana covered really very
well our view of 2026. One maybe piece I wanted to add is that some people may be wondering
about the impact of the agreement with the US government. What I would say on this is that,
Aradhana covered it, we have a very broad portfolio geographically and also a broad portfolio of
new products, new launches and we think we can absorb the impact of this agreement. We're
confident we can absorb it in '26 and beyond and it really doesn't affect our 2030 ambition and
doesn't affect our mid-term ambition.
So over to you, Susan with persevERA.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thanks, Pascal. So, just as a reminder, again, camizestrant, with the data that we showed in both
the SERENA-2 study and then with the recent SERENA-6 study in first-line, has really shown the
best profile of all of the oral SERDs that have reported so far. We've had the best hazard ratio
versus fulvestrant in both the ESR, mutant as well as in the wild type.
But the fundamental point is, as you move from second line to first line, there's an increase in the
endocrine sensitive part of the population. So, for those wild type patients, they can still be
expected to benefit because what you're doing is you're inhibiting both the transcriptional signal
downstream of the estrogen receptor regardless of whether it's wild type or mutated. And
you're also reducing the amount of that receptor through degradation to very low levels and we
showed that in the SERENA-3 study. So both those mechanisms of action are expected to be
superior to the aromatase inhibitor component of current first-line backbone therapy.
In terms of cross comparisons, I would point out that the SERENA-4 study is a larger study than
persevERA and we've designed it to enrich for patients that have got endocrine sensitive profile
based on the clinical inclusion/exclusion criteria. And so, we've designed it taking into account
what we've previously learned and including from trials such as (inaudible), et cetera, to optimize
for the opportunity for success in that first-line setting.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. So the next question is `Justin Smith, Analyst, Bernstein at Bernstein. Over to you, Justin.
Q - `Justin Smith, Analyst, Bernstein `Yeah. Just a couple for Sharon or Ruud. Just firstly on CARDIO-TTRansform, just your thoughts on
whether that could meaningfully reshape treatment guidelines long-term? And then also just your
thoughts on whether any new simpler diagnostic tests are coming soon to potentially expand the
cardiomyopathy population? Many thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So maybe, Sharon, do you want to cover and, Ruud, if you have anything to add,
please jump in.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. So we look forward to the readout of the Phase-3 CARDIO-TTRansform study in 2026. Do
we have the potential to meaningfully transform that treatment algorithm for patients? I think
what we're able to demonstrate with the CARDIO-TTRansform study is both the role of silencers
in an adequately treating disease and, in a planned subset key secondary endpoint readout, we'll
be looking at the effect of eplontersen in patients who have tafamidis. And so, that will give us
the opportunity to be able to address that key question for patients comparing the effect of
silencer plus stabilizer versus silencer, which I think will be very important in guiding patient
treatment decisions.
And then finally, AstraZeneca is in a unique position in developing new therapies for patients
living with ATTR amyloidosis and that we also have ALXN2220, the amyloidosis depleter in our
portfolio. And we continue to work towards creating a combination approach of a depleter and a
silencer, which we think could be truly pivotal for patients living with ATTR amyloidosis.
Now with regards to diagnosis, we know that's a key part of the patient journey. And we know
that this is not simply a hereditary disease. The hereditary variants are rare, but the disease is not
-- this is also a disease of the aging. So being able to screen for and detect patients earlier in
their disease progression will be really fundamental to offering patients improved outcomes.
So to that end, we are exploring a number of different opportunities to be able to more
accurately and earlier diagnose ATTR amyloidosis. And those include AI-informed models that
allow us to identify patients on screening with echocardiogram or potentially EKG as well as
developing new biomarker assays to be able to detect soluble amyloid. So we continue to work
on all fronts to be able to drive both earlier detection and earlier treatment.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sharon. Ruud, anything you wanted to add?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
No, everyone is eagerly awaiting for the results. So what hasn't mentioned yet by Sharon is that
this is the largest CM trial so far in ATTR cardiomyopathy. And if successful, hopefully, we will see
a CV mortality benefit, which of course is extremely important for treating cardiologists. On top
of that, we are very pleased to see, let's say, the progress we are making in the first indication,
the PN indication. So we can only hope for patients and also for the company and others
interested that the ATTR-CM trial will be positive, and we will know that in the course of 2026.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Over to you, Sachin.Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi, there. Thanks for my questions. I've got one each for Sharon and Susan on Phase 3 starts
you've each referenced. So, for Sharon, I wonder if you could just remind us of the obesity
portfolio, the oral and amylin as we look for Phase 2 data next year. How are you thinking about
your target competitive profile given the competitive landscape is rapidly changing? Obviously,
with oral, we've seen the (inaudible) data since you last presented and, with amylin, we've had
the Lilly data out today.
And then, for Susan, I think you referenced the Phase 3 start for the BCMA CAR-T where we see
data at ASH and $5 billion peak. I'm just looking at the abstract, it looks like you've got 100% MRD
negativity in almost fourth-line patients. So just wondering how you're thinking about the fastest
route-to-market for that. And beyond efficacy, how you're seeing differentiation on safety and
administration? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Sharon, do you want to start? And then Susan.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. So, Sachin, as you know, we are moving forward with multiple molecules in our weight
management portfolio. That is AZD5004 that's currently in Phase 2 for patients with obesity and
Type 2 diabetes. AZD6234, that's our long-acting amylin peptide subcutaneous injectable that is
also in Phase 2 for the same patient populations, and ACD950, and that's our dual GLP-1
glucagon receptor agonist, also subcutaneous injectable also in Phase 2.
As we move all three of these forward at pace, of course, we're looking to have highly
competitive molecules that give us reason to believe that these could be valuable treatment
options for patients. As we move forward, we're also thinking about the potential for market
segmentation and we know that there will be room for multiple mechanisms. And the bar is high.
We've seen the very interesting data from eloralintide today. And so, that gives us more reason
to believe that a selective amylin receptor agonist, similar to 6234, has the potential for efficacy
in terms of weight loss and better blood sugar control for patients with Type 2 diabetes. So we
have seen no red flags to date and continue to move forward at pace and expect to enter Phase
3 pending competitive data and we'll be making those decisions in 2026.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
And so, in terms of the 0120, which is the CD19 BCMA dual CAR -- thanks for the question, Sachin
-- we will be presenting data in the later-line patient population at ASH. And this includes patients
who are triple class refractory and a substantial proportion that have had prior BCMA CAR-T
therapy.
So what the data show is that we do have a really impressive response rate and a complete
response rates in evaluable patients that are also progressing and they tend to evolve over time.
There's a relatively small number of patients that are currently MRD evaluable. But as you rightly
point out, in that small number in the abstract, all of them have achieved MRD negativity.
The overall profile of this as dosed is attractive. We have no grade 3 CRS and no ICANs in the
dataset that we've presented in the abstract. And both the efficacy and the safety profile is
related in part to the FasTCAR manufacturing, which Gracell had developed, which is helping to
deliver this predictable CRS profile and deep and early responses. So we're very excited aboutthe prospects for this and we want to reiterate that we're going to start Phase 3 trials for this
next year. And again, we'll be taking this forward in multiple settings in multiple myeloma. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susan. The next question is from `Richard Vosser, Analyst, J.P. Morgan at JPM. Over to you, Richard.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thanks, Pascal. Two questions, please. Firstly, one, just following-up on the TB02 Datroway at
ESMO. And maybe you could talk about the read-across from the better tolerability you showed
relative to competing products there, both to your Datroway trials, but also more importantly
across the other ADC programs, what can we learn from that?
And then, secondly, maybe a more commercial rollout question. Just the Imfinzi sales were very
strong this quarter. I wonder if you could give a little bit more color on the rollouts. You highlighted
bladder and lung, but how should we think about the runway of growth from here for Imfinzi?
Thanks very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Susan, do you want to cover the first one? And, David, the Imfinzi rollout question?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Sure. Thanks for the question. So, yes, we're delighted with the TROPION-Breast02 data that was
presented at ESMO. And I think this does speak to the actual design of this ADC, which similar to
the Enhertu design, is based on linker stability. So it's really important to have linker stability, so
that you're actually delivering a higher proportion of the payload actually to the tumor cells and
less exposure in the peripheral circulation.
That drives the difference in terms of the bone-marrow toxicity profile that you see with
Datroway compared to some other TROP2-based ADCs. And I think that also speaks to the fact
that we then delivered a higher response rate, longer progression-free survival and this five-
month improvement in overall survival, which I think is a differentiated profile.
So that, first of all, within the breast cancer space, it increases the confidence in the early-stage
studies, the TROPION-Breast03, which is in the post-neoadjuvant setting a little bit analogous to
the DESTINY-Breast05 setting and that's in combination, of course, with Imfinzi.
The TROPION-Breast04 setting, which is in the neoadjuvant treatment of triple-negative negative
breast cancer, and then TROPION-Breast05, which takes that a doublet combination of Datroway
and Imfinzi also into the first-line setting. So with those studies, plus of course the lung cancer
studies, the AVANZAR studies, I think the profile that we've got is one that we're confident about
and we look forward to having the future readouts in the coming months and years. Thanks.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thanks, Susan. With respect to the Imfinzi growth drivers in '25 and outlook moving forward, I
think it has really been a great example of delivery against multiple new life-cycle expansion
opportunities. The primary growth drivers have been with ADRIATIC in small cell, AEGEAN in early
lung cancer and then also NIAGARA has also been an important area of growth. All three of those
represent opportunities for us to continue to see full-year benefits across the globe as we launchthose. Now, there is competitive pressures that we face on all of those. With that said, our
differentiation, I think, is strong and our first-mover advantage is clear.
I would also just point out that, very importantly, we've got positive studies with MATTERHORN
with strong overall survival that was presented at ESMO. We've got POTOMAC. Those are both
studies that we are looking forward to hopefully achieving regulatory approvals across the globe
and there will be further readouts as well that we have coming forward from here. So the Imfinzi
trajectory is one that has been both strong and I anticipate will be sustained.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Next question is from `Peter Verdult, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas at Exane. Over to you, Peter.
Q - `Peter Verdult, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Yeah, thank you. Peter here, BNP. Apologies for any background noise. Two questions for you,
Pascal. I thought it was noteworthy at the investor event at ESMO cancer event, you called out
baxdrostat in your opening remarks. KALOS that we're speaking to say they see sort of placebo-
adjusted blood pressure lowering in sort of 11, 12, 13 range. Their excitement around this asset is
going to get cranked up. So I know you can't talk to the data, we're going to have to wait until
Sunday, but when you look at consensus expectations down at $2 billion, would you expect that
expectations for this asset materially increase post Bax24 data?
And then secondly, we've talked about the political environment in the US. The industry wants to
and has to invest more in the US, wants to invest more in China. Where is that leaving Europe?
What's the political environment in Europe? Are the politicians waking up to the direction of
travel? Do you think that the innovation debate can be genuinely had in Europe or are you more,
should we say, sanguine about the outlook regarding innovation being paid for in Europe?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Peter. So let me start with baxdrostat and then maybe I'm sure Ruud, who is very
excited about this product, will want to add some more. I'm personally very excited about this
product because -- not only because uncontrolled hypertension is a big problem, a lot of people
are on three drugs and still uncontrolled. That drives kidney disease, heart disease, cardiovascular
events. So, that's a big unmet need, much, much bigger than people understand really.
The second reason is the effect on aldosterone, the 60%, 65% reduction that Sharon mentioned
a bit earlier, I think will prove over time a massive benefit because aldosterone has not only effect
on blood pressure, but also deleterious effect on the organ. It still has to be proven, but I think
there's good reason to believe it is actually the case because it docks on not only aldosterone
receptor, but also other receptors that are not blocked by traditional MRIs. And if you have too
much aldosterone in your body, it drives organ damage over time. So I think this is going to prove
really a big deal. And then you will see the data we have over 24 hours.
This is really important because you need to control blood pressure at night, in particular the early
morning. Sharon mentioned it. That's when people tend to have cardiovascular events, stroke,
MIs. So, again, this long-lasting effect over 24 hours is important and I can tell you won't be
disappointed with the blood pressure reduction you will see.
Ruud, anything you want to add in term of the question about the peak sales and the potential
for this agent?A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah. No, of course. And we are very excited and, hopefully on Sunday, you will see why. I'm not
going to speculate whether it is more than the peak, the $5 billion peak year sales we have
articulated.
The only thing I can say, Peter, is that we have, in total, seven studies on this program as we
speak and there are a few studies also in the fixed-dose combination with dapagliflozin. And
Pascal was alluding to that.
Yes, blood pressure in itself is important to control that, but it has a quite devastating effect on
the kidney. And we truly believe that the combination of a well-known product like dapagliflozin
plus the potential positive effect of baxdrostat will be a very substantial driver. Whether it this $5
billion or perhaps even $10 billion, time will tell, but there is an enormous amount of excitement,
not only in the company, but more importantly among physicians for this for these products.
And let's not forget -- that's my last remark -- that if a 10 millimeter mercury increases your risk of
a MACE event 30%, so I think you will see a renaissance of the treatment of hypertension with a
product like baxdrostat. So very exciting.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. And the US political environment, we've talked a lot about it. And this issue has
been long coming in my opinion because if you go back 20 years or so, there was limited
difference in pricing between the US and Europe.
Let's talk about Europe for a second really. And over time, what has happened is there's been a
growing difference, mostly because in Europe, we've been facing price cut, clawbacks, a whole
cottage industry of price reductions and control of access.
And if you look at healthcare costs today, well, 20 years ago, I guess, healthcare -- 20%, 30%,
15% of healthcare costs were dedicated to pharmaceuticals, innovative pharmaceuticals in
particular. Today, you are at 7%, 8%, 9% and one of the lowest is the UK with 7% of healthcare
costs dedicated to innovative pharmaceuticals. And you've got to ask yourself, I mean, what can
you do with 7%. Not much.
It creates limited room for innovation and innovation that can save lives, but also reduce
healthcare costs by delaying or delaying things like dialysis, saving patients' lives in cancer, et
cetera, et cetera.
So I think there has to be a rebalancing because the US for the last number of years has been
really paying for the cost and the risk associated with innovation. We should never forget the risk.
Everybody talks about the cost, but there's a massive risk.
We have a portfolio committee and very often we spend several hundred million dollars in one
meeting. And if those studies fail, it's a lot of money in the rubbish bin. We've been lucky, this
year, we've had almost 90% success rate with our Phase 3, but that's not the norm, right? So
people have to realize innovation is expensive, but it's also very risky. So I think there has to be a
rebalancing and Europe has to cover a little bit more of this innovation by increasing budgets
allocated to innovative pharmaceuticals.
And finally, I will say that if you look at innovation that's happening in the US, very rapidly now it's
happening in China and there's not so much in Europe. So it would be great for everybodystarting with patients if Europe was also innovating a lot in our industry. It will also attract
investment from companies and drive economic growth.
Now whether we are able to show the benefit of these investments to our governments in
Europe is still to be seen, but there's clearly benefits to patients, of course, but there's also
benefits to healthcare cost as innovation can drive healthcare costs down. And there is also
economic benefit as the life sciences sector can drive economic growth like we see in the US, we
see now in China.
So whether we succeed or not, I don't know, but the danger for Europe is that a lot of these new
technologies that we are talking about, they need new capacity, new manufacturing capabilities.
And right now, this is going to happen in the US, and so the risk is in 15, 20 years, Europe realized
that they have lost control of their supply chain for some of those most important innovative
technologies because they are manufactured in the US and in China. So more to come and, of
course, a lot of convincing to try to achieve, but we'll see whether we are able to do that or not.
So with this, I'll move to the next question. `Mattias Haggblom, Analyst, Handelsbanken at Handelsbanken. Over to you,
Mattias.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Analyst, Handelsbanken `
Thanks so much. `Mattias Haggblom, Analyst, Handelsbanken from Handelsbanken. Two questions, please. Firstly, on
Farxiga, following the invalidation of the patent in UK and subsequent generic launch, remind me
why this loss would not encourage generic companies to explore similar challenges elsewhere in
Europe prior to patent expiration in '28 and why the situation in the UK was unique.
And then secondly for Sharon, Marc will present Phase 3 data for AZURE PCSK9 inhibitor this
weekend. Once we get the detailed data, what in particular will your team be studying to better
understand its clinical profile and how it compares with your own small-molecule PCSK9 inhibitor
currently in Phase 3? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And the first one I can quickly cover in the interest of time. Mattias, it's a very specific UK law. We
can cover the details separately with you, if you want, offline. But just for everybody's interest, it's
a very specific UK law that doesn't apply to other countries.
And the PCSK9 question, Sharon, do you want to cover that?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure, I'd love to. So, as you know, our own laroprovstat is a true small-molecule inhibitor of PCSK9
currently in Phase 3. We have shared the Phase 2 data. They're very encouraging. And we note
that because our PCSK9 is a true small molecule, it does not require solubility enhancers and it
doesn't require fasting. And so, it offers a target patient profile that we think is very attractive for
both monotherapy and combination approaches.
And in fact, we're exploring combination approaches with a small molecule Lp(a) that is in our
portfolio in Phase 1 and it also allows us to easily combine with statins, which is standard of care.
We were thrilled to see that with combinations, we were able to bring 80% of patients on study
to their LDL-C lowering goals. And so, we think that we're in a very solid place in a competitive
landscape.Now, of course, we'll be watching Merck's data to understand how we can continue to
meaningfully differentiate ourselves in this landscape as we continue to work on our go-forward
plans. We remain very positive about the potential for laroprovstat in this environment and for the
potential to really meaningfully change patients' lives because dyslipidemia is not yet solved. We
know the majority of patients aren't reaching their LDL-C lowering goals, and so there is still a
major unmet medical need in the marketplace.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sharon. So, we still have quite a number of questions. So can I suggest that we go one
question per person and we on our side will try to be short in our responses. So next one is
`Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities. Over to you, Seamus.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Oh, thanks very much. So, my one question is on the competitive developments and the
evolution of the treatment of asthma and COPD. Just hoping, Ruud, if you could comment on
your, I guess, primary competitors outside of Dupixent, but GSK specifically making moves to
advance long-acting agents, both depemokimab and their potential long-acting TSLP program.
Can you just help us with your thoughts specifically on the value of having long-acting agents in
that marketplace and how your own -- whether it be pipeline pursuits or separately your own
existing portfolio is built to defend against that? Thanks so much.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah. Thank you so much for your question. And let me first emphasize that where we are as a
company with both Fasenra and Tezspire is very pleasing. And we have now for the second-
quarter, consecutive quarter, the sales above $0.5 billion for Fasenra. So the product is now
annualizing of more than $2 billion a year.
And the reason I'm mentioning that is that, in all the market research and our own experience in
the last few years across all geographies, clearly, efficacy is the number one reason to prescribe
products. And I think that's very important in the choice of physicians.
Having said that, there's always room for further other modalities and AstraZeneca is putting a lot
of effort in order to generate the first inhaled TSLP molecule, which is quite exciting in order to
broaden the patient access for severe uncontrolled asthmatics as we think there is a high unmet
medical need for the simple reason that still too many patients are suffering from severe asthma
and are not eligible for an injectable.
So, moving earlier in the treatment paradigm with an inhaled TSLP if it is working, of course, and
we will know that in the course of 2026, I think will be a huge advantage for so many patients still
suffering.
But all in all, it's clear that there are great products. We are in a very good position. We're the
market leader in new-to-brand prescriptions, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, but there's
still an enormous opportunity to further accelerate the biopenetration.
And last, but not least, we are diverged in order to launch Fasenra in China, which is another very
important growth driver for us as a company.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. The next question is from `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS at UBS. Over to you, Matthew.Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you, Pascal. I think it's probably a question for Dave, but you flagged in your comments that
'25 has been or seen a very significant benefit from new patients due to lower Part D copays. Of
course, that's allowed companies to bring free drug patients into paid coverage. As we think
about '26, do we need to consider a significant slowdown in the underlying growth of some of
your assets as that free drug warehouse bolus runs out? And if yes, which product should we be
most aware of?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave, do you want to cover this?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yes, please. Thanks, Matthew, for the question. So I think just to take a small step back, if we
compare what we'll expect to see in Q2 -- excuse me, Q1 '26 versus '25, first, we'll have a good,
if you will, apples-to-apples comparison because both quarters will include the impact of the Part
D liability.
And secondly, I think also, we will continue to see benefit of patients staying on commercial
medicine who had switched over this year or were otherwise abandoning. So, I think that one of
the things that is really important here is that if you take a look at the oral medicines, Tagrisso and
Calquence, in particular, although it's also true of Lynparza, they have fairly long durations of
therapy, CLL with treat to progression, Tagrisso in terms of the early settings, but also indeed
what we see with FLAURA2.
So I would expect that patients who've come over to a commercial medicine as opposed to
being on free drug that we'll continue to see the benefit of those patients and the TRxs come
into 2026.
The bolus patients who would have been your prevalent pool who came on as the copay cap
went from the mid-300s down into the 2000s, we may not see that repeat, but I really do think
we're going to see demand coming forward from new patients, new indications and I think that
we'll see good oral growth moving forward on our assets.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Maybe I could add that, a year ago, you may remember a number of people were
worried about the impact of Part D liability on our growth rate. And you can see we've been able
to manage that as we said we would and Dave and his team have been doing an amazing job
driving usage and growing our share and growing the volume to compensate for this Part D
liability that we've had to absorb in 2025.
The next question is from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen at Cowen. Steve, over to you.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Well, thank you so much. Actually, a question on Calquence. Is the upper end of the peak sales
guidance of $3 billion to $5 billion still achievable given the positive data from competitors,
Calquence's 2027 IRA negotiated price which you presumably have by now, and Imbruvica's IRA
negotiated price? And related to all this, was the Calquence IRA price in line with your
expectations? Thank you.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave, I think it's for you again.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Steve, thanks for the question. On your last piece, we will share the IRA negotiated price on
Calquence once that's public, which will be happening later this quarter.
What I do want to comment on, though, with respect to your peak year sales question, recall that
when we put forth the ambition for 2030 in 2024, we had visibility at that time into the fact that
we anticipated that Calquence would be an IPAY. So that's absolutely consistent with the
expectations that we had had.
We expected that we would get positive data from AMPLIFY. That's come through and been part
of what we've seen. And I think that we've seen really even better than we expected volume
growth of Calquence, particularly within the United States.
So in terms of the assumptions that went into the projections that we put forth or the ambition
that we put forth in 2024, I think it's been positive news against that and good momentum
against those figures.
I'm happy that we've seen good share growth in the United States this year on the work that
we're doing. We're seeing AMPLIFY in Europe with good initial uptake and we'll look forward to
the AMPLIFY opportunity in the US.
I do want to note that remember that there are no BTK, Bcl2 combinations for finite that are
approved in the US in frontline CLL. There's a large number of patients that are receiving a finite
treatment that don't involve BTK at all, and we see this as an important opportunity for the asset
going forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. So still lots of growth coming from those approved or soon-to-be approved
indications and we also have ESCALADE in DLBCL that is still to come. Next question is Rajan
Sharma, Goldman Sachs. Over to you, Rajan.
Q - `Rajan Sharma, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Group `
Hi. Sorry, thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to get your thoughts Enhertu's trajectory
from here, given that we now have the DB09 and the DB11 data in PDUFAs next year, which have
been seen historically as two of the largest opportunities. Some of our KOL feedback has
suggested that initial uptake may be a little bit tentative to begin with. So, yeah, would just begin
to get your thoughts on that and do you expect those potential approvals during the first half to
drive an immediate step-up in Enhertu's growth in '26 and '27?
And then just thinking further out, do you think you'll be reaching peak penetration in breast
cancer as you approach your 2030 target? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So a question with three chapters. David, go ahead.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `All right, will do. So first of all, I think as we take a look at 09 and the combination of both 05 and
11, let's take those in two separate parts. DESTINY-Breast09 is clearly a very important
opportunity to move Enhertu from the later-line metastatic setting or the second-line plus
metastatic setting that we're in today into a frontline setting.
The reason that that is important is, first and foremost, many more patients will have the
opportunity to benefit from Enhertu because, unfortunately, the number of patients that are able
to receive a second-line therapy goes down just as patients unfortunately either pass away or
they're unable to receive further treatment. So opening up that population is going to be really
important.
Secondly, the duration of therapies that we see because of the long PFSs within DB09 are really
important and that's, as a result of this treat to progression, a new paradigm that's being
established.
And I think that on this, it's important to note that one of the things that's been really well
received by the clinical community is the lack of cumulative toxicity that is associated with Enhertu
and what we're seeing within these studies. That cumulative toxicity is in large part why there's
been discontinuation of the taxanes in some of the other metastatic settings. And so, we're really
looking for this to be an opportunity to make sure that we're driving to the way that DB09 was
designed, which is treat to progression. DB05 and DB11 in early-stage, they represent a
blockbuster opportunity together. This is a great opportunity to bring Enhertu into early settings.
And I think that in terms of when will we expect uptake, certainly, the clinical community does
follow guidelines. DB09, we anticipate coming into guidelines sometime soon, we would hope.
Remember that the New England Journal of Medicine publication just came through just very, very
recently and we'll obviously look forward to making sure that the progress that we've made on
the early studies gets published as well.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. So, we'll try the last four questions in the time that remains. So let's go with one question
per person and be short in our responses. Luisa at Berenberg, over to you.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thank you, Pascal. I wanted to return to the 2030 ambition because you've talked about and
we've seen this unprecedented success rate this year. So is the $80 billion now conservative?
Can you comment at all on the mix that you're seeing with this success and what that means for
profitability? And although the ex-US -- you're sticking at 50% ex-US contribution, are there any
changes in timings of launches or the mix of the ex-US in light of that US deal? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Luisa. Not long ago, people were thinking the $80 billion was not achievable. Now it's
soon going to be a soft goal. It remains an ambitious goal. And of course, we are very excited
with all these new positive readouts. But it's a risky business. That's what I said not long -- a few
minutes ago. So we have to remain cautious with the readouts that are coming next year. We
don't know. I hope to God, we continue to have a high positive success readout in our readouts,
but we can't be sure. So let's stick to the $80 billion. It's an ambitious goal. And if we can
overachieve, of course, we'll do our very best to overachieve.Now in the second question with the profitability, we want to be a growth company until 2030,
but also beyond 2030. So, suddenly, we can assume profitability increases, but you also have to
understand that we will want to continue investing in R&D.
We have tremendous technologies in our hands, cell therapy, T cell engagers, radioligands, which
we haven't talked about today. All of those are making good progress. So we certainly will want
to invest in those from an R&D perspective, but also from a commercial perspective. And beyond
oncology, we have a lot to do also in biopharma and rare disease. So we're not going to commit
to any profitability target or improvement beyond what we've already said in the past.
Aradhana, anything you wanted to add to this?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
No, not at all. It's a long answer, obviously, with (inaudible). So maybe another time for me.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So the next question is from `Gonzalo Artiach, Analyst, Danske Bank A/S at Danske Bank. Gonzalo, over to you.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Analyst, Danske Bank A/S `
Hi. `Gonzalo Artiach, Analyst, Danske Bank A/S at Danske Bank. Thank you for taking my questions. I have one for Marc on
gefurulimab and the data that has been recently presented. It seems that the efficacy and safety
signals have come fairly in line with Ultomiris in MG. How should we understand the dynamics
between these two products in MG?
And also, I wanted to ask if you have any plans ahead for gefurulimab in other indications where
Ultomiris is now approved. Thank you very much.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
So first of all, thank you very much for the question on the rare disease. So, gefurulimab -- the trial
of gefurulimab was done in patients earlier than the trials we had done historically with Ultomiris.
You will remember that Alexion was a pioneer company to obtain the first approval with modern
medicine in myasthenia gravis and subsequently we -- after Soliris, we developed Ultomiris and
now we go one step earlier.
The other important factor of gefurulimab is mode of administration, a subcut weekly provided in
either prefilled syringe or an auto-injector that can be injected in 15 seconds. So it's a very patient
convenient, patient easy type of administration. And the speed of onset has been demonstrated
in the study and also the sustainability is as good as it was for Ultomiris. So that's what I can say
about gefurulimab. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. And the last question is from `Simon Baker, Analyst, Rothschild & Co Redburn at Redburn. Over to you, Simon.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Rothschild & Co Redburn `
Thank you, Pascal. Just changing the subject, something we don't ask many questions on, but one
for Susan. Could you give us an update on your confidence in sone vedotin as we come up to the
gastric Phase 3 data in H1 '26 and also some thoughts on the broader scope of Claudin-18
beyond gastric. Thanks so much.A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thanks for the question. So, sone vedotin is a Claudin-18.2 ADC with an MMAE tubulin-based
payload. And we've seen encouraging response rate data in late-line patient populations. We are
investigating this versus current standard of care, but we're also looking within the potential to
take it into earlier line settings, including in combinations. And you'll have seen, of course, that
there are exciting opportunities for MMAE-based ADCs in combination with IO therapy. So I think
that represents a significant opportunity for sone-v.
Claudin-18.2 is expressed in a high proportion of gastric cancer, more than 50% of patients. So it's
a much bigger opportunity than the HER2 high group if you want to compare with what we've
seen with in HER2.
And I think it's also expressed in pancreatic cancer and we are looking at the data in pancreatic
cancer as well. Of course, there, the bar is high. So what we've done is go forward with the
gastric cancer opportunity first and we're continuing to explore the opportunity for this and also a
TOPO-based ADC with a Claudin-18.2 and targeting also in pancreatic cancer just to see which
payload works best. Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Susan. So in closing, maybe a few words back to Luisa's question. I realized I
didn't totally answer Luisa's question. As the pipeline develops, you can see we have a lot of
specialty care products moving forward. And of course, those tend to drive higher profitability as
we know. But we also have products that will address conditions like weight loss, metabolic
conditions, metabolic disease and those, of course, require more investments.
So I think, overall, you can suddenly assume an improvement of profitability from a commercial
viewpoint. The R&D, we want to continue spending in the low-20s as we've done in the past. And
but as I said before, we will not commit to any direction of travel of our profitability because we
need to see how the pipeline develops and that's what we've said in the past.
And quite frankly, we've been good and lucky. We have had a very-high success rate and I hope it
continues. And if it does, then we have to support all these products.
So with this, thank you so much for all your great questions and your interest and I wish you good
rest of the day.