Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2025 BMW Group Annual Press
Conference, Analyst and Investor Call. I'm delighted to be here today. My name is `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations,
Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations for BMW Group, and delighted to be joined
by our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer; our CFO, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer; and given the dynamic sales developments
across our regions, our Board Member for Customer, Brand and Sales, `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales.
You've heard from Oliver earlier how BMW's robust strategy and technology openness, attractive
product portfolio and a resilient global footprint allows us to forge our own path as well as setting
new paradigms when it comes to tech design and user experience with the Neue Klasse. Walter
has shared how we've navigated 2024, closed the year and delivered on all our guidance
parameters, updated guidance parameters despite the IBS headwinds and subdued China
situation. We have also provided a comprehensive and reliable guidance for 2025, factoring in all
known and decided aspects of uncertain geopolitical backdrop and tariffs.
Questions And Answers
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
To start off, I believe you all have the technical instructions for the analysts and investor call. And
to get this call started, we have the first question from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS, UBS. Good morning,
Patrick. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Good morning and thanks for taking my question. Good morning, everybody. If I may, I will have
two questions for you. My first one is in regards to your capital allocation. I think it's well
appreciated you're increasing the payout ratio for 2024, but you've also talked in a quite bullish
manner in the past few months about the upside to capital allocation. Now the formality is to get
the AGM approval for the 10% share buyback. But of course, I think what we and many investorswere hoping for is to get a bit more granularity how the actual cash return in the next couple of
years is going to look like. What's the run rate of share buybacks? Is it going to accelerate from
the EUR1 billion per annum level or is it going to remain at this EUR1 billion per annum level?
And why did you not decide in favor of increasing the payout ratio? I'm just wondering with the
free cash flow guidance you've put out. I mean, you did EUR5 billion -- or almost EUR5 billion last
year. You guide for more than EUR5 billion this year. You don't want to build on your net financial
asset position. That was my understanding at least. So why haven't you just provided a framework
for more generous cash return? That's my first question.
And my second question, I just want to hear from you. Yesterday there were the news out about
Frank Weber's departure. I'm well aware of the age limits, but it's nonetheless quite unusual. Just
ahead of Neue Klasse, which I guess is the biggest project in the company's history from an R&D
standpoint you execute such a management changeover. If you can just give us a little bit of
background on that decision and the timing right now. Thank you very much.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Patrick. We'll start with the first question on capital allocation, payout ratio,
share buyback run rate with Walter. Over to you, Walter.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Patrick. So you are well aware of our capital allocation strategy. So we utilize our
30% to 40% corridor for our dividend payout. And just let me underpin that our new dividend
payout ratio is the highest ever we utilized. Plus optionally, of course, share buybacks. You see
that since 2022 we are utilizing our share buyback program also despite the fact the pace
eventually has slowed down the last two years. First one we've been quite fast and the last one
was also then finally by end of April, half a year earlier finished than eventually announced.
Now, with respect to our AGM proposal for the next preparation of the 10% for the next five
years, well, we will not announce and request another AGM approval for share buybacks if you're
not starting it. And we will then start the program three in time and you will get all the details of
run rate, et cetera, at the time of the announcement.
With respect to free cash flow, the EUR5 billion we guided for 2025. Yeah, we generate then cash
return and the limit is of course still free cash flow. And how much we pay out as a dividend in '26
for the year '25 will be announced in 12 months. Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Walter. And now to your second question on Frank Weber and the
background on the management decision. `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Hello. Good morning, Patrick. As Frank said himself this morning, the timing is actually perfect. And
as you know BMW, our strategy for putting talented into specific positions is always long term and
it's planned, it's no surprises. So the timing of Frank's departure end of May is actually perfect
because the series development of the Neue Klasse is finished. Now we have to launch it and we
have to bring it to the market and convince customers that this is a very good buying decision. So
a new era is coming now.And actually, it's from my point of view, having worked with Frank for the past five years on
developing the Neue Klasse is actually perfect and I feel very comfortable with a few to work now
with Joachim Post as the new Director for R&D and also bringing Nicolai Martin into the Board. I
look very much forward to that and it will give BMW even more stability.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Oliver. Thank you, Patrick. We will now move to our next caller, Jose
Asumendi, J.P. Morgan. Good morning, Jose. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Morning. Good morning. Thank you very much for taking the question. A few questions, please.
Maybe the first one for Jochen. Can you talk a little bit about how has the competitive landscape
changed in China since you were there? And what are the key product launches that you're
looking forward to launch in 2025 to maintain that market share and sales momentum in the
region?
The other two questions go to Walter and to Oliver. When I look at the margin guidance or the
margin trajectory in 2024, there were a couple of things that surprised me. I think one was the
declining sales we had in China, particularly in the first or second quarter of '24 and the second
was the recall on the brake topic. So on the first topic, Walter, are you looking for a stabilization of
sales in the Chinese market in Q1 and Q2 sequentially versus Q4? In your budgeting, how do you
think about China in that sense? And then second, Oliver, on the recall, what have been a little bit
the lessons learned in 2024 when you think about your quality control and your relations with your
suppliers? Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Jose. We'll start with Jochen, please, with regards to the competitive
landscape in China and our product offensive. Thank you, Jochen.
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Yeah. Well, good morning, Jose. So let me first maybe just refer to the global perspective. And as
a global player, that's a benefit that we have four regions and we're able to buffer in a way
volatilities across regions. And as you have seen from the numbers, very strong in Europe, very
strong in US and especially also strong in the rest of world, meaning we are able to cover some
of the impact of China market, number one, and that is of course something which is the strength
of BMW Group.
Secondly, when you look at the Chinese market, it's quite complex. You have some exogen, an
external impact, for example, consumer confidence. And you also have some industry impact. Let
me first say the fact that Chinese players are taking a higher market share in their own market
should not come as any surprise. And we have always foreseen this because when you look at
Europe, European OEMs are dominating and in the US of course, the US one. So the fact is known
and has been factored in.
China market is very big. You talk about 25 million units per year and even if, let's say there's a
20%, 25% share for European manufacturers, you're still talking about a huge amount of
marketplace, number one. Number two is what you see is of course on the one side a
restructuring of the market, strong growth of new energy vehicles comprising of fully electric and
plug-in hybrid and REX cars, and as well as of course consolidation of the dealer networkstructure. So therefore our outlook for China is we are working heavily, intensively with the team.
I've been over a few weeks across January, I'm going to go the next week and we're working
very closely on a lot of measures including restructuring our dealer network.
At the same time, this year, we're introducing 10 new models in China and in '26 and '27 another
20. So the good thing is that we are really at the start of our, what we call, model offensive and
therefore we are quite confident that we are able to stabilize our business in China and of
course, with the launch of the new cars are able to return onto the growth pace. And for
example, we just started a few weeks ago with the launch of our brand new China X3 Long-
Wheelbase and the incoming order intake is very, very promising. Yeah.
So I think the market is restructuring. I would say we're well prepared because we also have
offers in all segments. Some of our competitors, they only have electric cars, but there is still a
50% market share of combustion engine cars in China and maybe it's 40% and maybe it's 30%,
but 30% of 25 million is still a huge marketplace and we are able to offer very convincing
products in the combustion engine segment, very convincing products in plug-in hybrid. And with
the Neue Klasse over the next years, we are also able to compete.
So in a nutshell, yes, at the moment there are many, many impacts we have to face in China. We
will consolidate the business and I'm pretty sure with our technology-open approach that we will
be one of the winners of the Chinese markets in the years to come.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Jochen. Moving to your second question, Jose, specifically margin guidance
2025, expectations regarding the Chinese market development in the margin guidance for first
half. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Jose. So in our guidance, you of course raised the question what's included. We assume
China flattish and we assume also that the first half year is running more or less on the run rate of
Q4. Last year in '24 we had still a strong Q1 in China. And in Q2 it started to get impacts for and
then peaking in Q3 with our IBS issue. And based on that one, finally, we had to go ad hoc on
September 10th, ending with two core reasons. One was IBS in '24 and the second one was also
that the market dynamics in China was different than we expected in July '24. So that means
ultimately for our guidance, run rate on Q4 '24 also for the first half year, flattish volume in China.
Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Walter. Jose, to your last and final question, IBS recall, lessons learned and
relationship to suppliers. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
When we look at the supplier landscape, which is a global one, as we all know, a lot of things are
changing. Raw materials, refined materials, stability of suppliers, quality issues. We put a lot of
effort to keep the quality promise. And even with the IBS with the Integrated Brake System, there
were no cars going out to customers which affected their driving abilities. So that is why we had
the effect because we simply kept the cars back.
The flexibility with which we reacted to this circumstance, I think it's also a strength of BMW. Nowlost about 100,000 units last year, as you know. But we have the ability to react quickly. We
created even more transparency about our supplier landscape and quality remains always at the
heart of BMW. And that is a promise.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Oliver. We're moving on to `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Good
morning, Tim. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you very much and thank you very much for taking my questions. I have two, please.
The first one is on the margin target as well. When we look back at the Mercedes Capital Markets
Day, there was a lot of focus on costs. We didn't hear much on that from you today. You may say
you have costs well under control always, but actually 5% to 7% margin is obviously not really your
mid-term ambition. And the biggest potential hit from a tariff side EU into US is potentially still
outstanding. China is not really improving.
So what are you doing on the cost side to mitigate this? Would there be a proper update on that
also from your perspective? And related to this, Walter, how should we think about the margin
development this year? Will it be a softer start in Q1 and then slowly progress, very strong Q4
finish? What is your thinking on that side?
And then secondly, I guess Oliver to you, how should we think about the future for BMW in the
world that gets smaller now? You've always had a very strong local-for-local approach, much
stronger than some of your peers. The market really liked you for your ability to faster adapt to a
changing environment and show more stability. Now you also got pretty heady hard by a supplier
issue, by the Chinese market development, by the tariff and the world doesn't get any easier
from here. How should we think about you bringing back BMW to this reputation of being much
more agile in a more dynamic environment than some of your peers, especially from a KPI
perspective on the financial side? Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Tim. We'll start with Walter first with regards to margin guidance 2025, cost
structures and the quarterly development. Thank you, Walter.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Tim. So I guess as you certainly read our Page 261 of our Prognosebericht, I assume, you
will certainly have noticed that we are one of the only ones who precisely wrote which tariffs we
included ending with all the classification and assuming in our prognosis this would last until end
of '25. This is more or less 1% hit in our EBIT margin. Others didn't do so. So -- and of course, I
also would like to underpin we said given the volatility of the geopolitical situation, it is of course
possible that tariffs may be reduced or further increased, but just in time, that's it. So that means
without all these tariffs lasting currently we would have guided 6% to 8%, right? So it's just the
other way around. That's the first comment I would like to do.
The second one, of course, with respect to cost. Of course, we are not making a big thing out of
it because we are just doing it consistently and constantly on all relevant parameters, whether we
speak about material cost, direct cost, cost in the budgets, CapEx, you name it. And we also
highlighted that 2024 was the peak year of not just R&D and CapEx but also of operational costs.And I mentioned in my speech that you will see also the turnaround on operational costs in the
quarters to come whenever we report them.
So we have a lot of line business functions who have their targets and they do know what they
have to do. And by the way, it was always planned that way. We had the setup of the Neue
Klasse. For the last two years, we're working to it and that's why we also communicated two
years ago already that '24 will be the peak year of CapEx and R&D. We didn't speak so much
about operational cost, but that's of course the point. And with it, you will see that we will turn
around also on the cost side. So that's our promise.
With respect to the margin development, you do know that we are not guiding on a quarterly
basis, but of course, I assume it is softer than in previous years certainly because we have
guidance which is lower than previous year. Absolutely right.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Tim. And your second question with regards to the future of BMW, I guess
this could take a while, but Oliver, to respond to Tim's question on the future of BMW, supply
landscape, geopolitical headwinds, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
Tim, you asked the resilience question. To begin with, nobody is safeguarded of singularity
events like with us last year the brake. If you -- you just have to flexibly deal with these issues. But
if you take that away, all the resilience we have built into the company proves that we are on the
right track. First of all, technology openness. We're not depending so much on singular drivetrain
developments in different markets. Look what is happening in the United States. Look, the NEV
development in China. Just for example, we sold more than 100,000 BEVs, which are NEVs cars
in China last year. We can react very swiftly on different market developments, as you see also in
Europe. So this gives us resilience and stability.
The second one is the global aspect, which is not a global aspect in itself. It's the sum of local for
local footprints we have. Let's take the tariffs from the United States. 50% of the sales volume is
built in the United States, which is not targeted or which is not hampered by the tariffs, which
gives us again stability and resilience.
And furthermore, you have to be an innovation leader. With the Neue Klasse coming up at as -- as
Frank Weber mentioned before, it will be -- in many respects, it will be a benchmark in the
industry. We're not just catching up or something like this. This will be in terms of range, in terms
of user interface, in terms of digital performance, it will be a benchmark in this industry. Also that
gives stability because it's not only new tech clusters for the electric cars, it will be for all of BMW.
So if you ask that resilience question, we feel even more -- because we see these rapid changes
in the environment, we feel even more safeguarded with what we have built in the last years.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Oliver. We'll move on to our next caller. It's `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Bernstein from
Bernstein. Stephen's joining us on audio-only. Steven, please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Bernstein `
Yes, thank you very much. I have a couple of questions, please. First of all, maybe technically,
obviously a lot of impressive detail about the Neue Klasse today. Will you comment a bit moreObviously, you're in the pre-production phase at the moment. And also then in Munich as well in
2026 with the second vehicle. And could you comment on how we're going to see R&D costs
develop, particularly in terms of capitalization versus amortization with the acceleration, obviously
the amortization as the vehicle now actually gets to be commercialized.
My second question is a more general one about the United States. Your principal plant,
Spartanburg, South Carolina is in a very red state. I think it carried the Republicans by about --
Trump carried about two-thirds majority -- two-thirds to one-third. What -- how are you able to
communicate the impact of policies on the -- at the state level about what's going on in terms of
tariffs and these other kind of policies and how it's impacting your business and potentially
impacting employment? That is obviously hard sought for in the States as well. Thank you very
much.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Stephen. We'll start off with your first question with regards to the ramp-up
of Neue Klasse with Jochen, please. Jochen, over to you.
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Yeah. I think I would start and then maybe Oliver, if you like to add a few things. So in terms of
market introduction, I think it will be rather quickly because Neue Klasse, very importantly, is not a
car, it's a complete family. And so we're going to start by the end of the year with the start of
production and the first introduction of our iX3. And then with only two years, we will have six
Neue Klasse models on the market worldwide. Indeed, we will start here in Europe. But very
quickly we will also bring Neue Klasse to our markets, US and China.
So first of all, by the end of the year, we will press the button. Next year you will see the ix3 in all
our markets and then as I said, within only two years, a family of six. In addition of course to other
cars. Yeah. So we must not forget that we are technology-open. So very important is at the same
time we also introduce brand new plug-in hybrid and combustion engine models and the Neue
Klasse technology, your UI/UX and some other technology is in all of those cars.
And I would suggest that Oliver, maybe you add some more comments.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chief Executive Officer `
As Jochen mentioned, it's not only about the first car, the iX3, which will be launched this year.
And you're right, we are in the pre-series phase. And in November we will launch the car. And
very early in 2026, the car -- the first car of the Neue Klasse will be in the market, but it's much
more. It's the basis for 40 new models or reworked models until 2027. And the technology
clusters of the Neue Klasse, whether it's the batteries, whether it's the digital functions of the car,
will -- you will see in many other cars inside of two years. So it's not only about that one car.
And we are right on track, by the way, there will be no postponements in any launches. We are
ready to go. And as we said this morning, this car has already 1.5 million kilometers driven. So we
will get a very high quality, stable product. And whenever we drive the cars, and we drive them a
lot, we are super excited about the success of these cars.
On the United States question, we started to invest in the United States 30 years ago. We have
now invested overall $14 billion. We are currently spending another $2 billion in the United States.
So whatever is happening now, we kind of preempted it already what is happening there,
because that is clear for many, many years now. If you want to be a major player in a big market,you have to be a local player. That is in China, the way, of course, in Europe, that's the case
anyway, but also in the United States. And what is happening now, we -- as I said before, it kind of
gives some -- gives us some tailwind what we've done in the past. And we will have to look now
in the next coming years, whether we need in specific technologies to do more investments, we
will have to see, but we are not in a rush with that.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jochen. Thank you, Oliver. Going back to your question on capitalization and
depreciation, especially with Neue Klasse and what that means for the P&L. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Stephen. So with respect to our R&D as well as CapEx position, we will have a meaningful
reduction in both '24 versus '25 first of all. On the R&D side, we will have more or less the same
level of capitalization as you saw end of '24. And with that in total, you see finally also a positive
effect already on the free cash flow in '25. I think that is the most relevant thing. And that was the
question. And on the operational side, I mentioned already that we also have a turnaround there.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. Our next caller is `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go ahead,
Horst.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, good morning, and thanks for taking my questions as well. The most important one that I
have is on Neue Klasse and the outlook for the pricing. We heard from Mercedes at their full year
figures that they don't expect that EVs can be priced higher than ICE vehicles in the future. I'm not
totally clear what's your view on that matter, so maybe you can explain that a bit.
And the other questions are as well on pricing. I know it's for you difficult to talk about pricing in
these calls, but maybe you can explain us why you expect price mix in '25 to be better than in '24.
And when we talk about tariffs, you aim then to pass the tariffs on to customers or how is the
math working here on the net perspective? Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Horst. As you know, we do not give price indications on calls and in fact, it's
difficult to comment on pricing across different markets and regions. But I will hand over the
question on Neue Klasse pricing to Walter, followed by the price differentials between BEV and
ICE as well as the 2025 expectations. Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Hello, Horst. So as we can say more or less worldwide we have a different pricing set
anyway because the pricing is always depending on the market potentials and we utilize all
potentials in the individual markets. And we have markets where EV cars have more or less the
same price like ICE and we have the one way or the other way around. So that is not the key
ultimately. We just aim for the right price in the right market.
And with respect to your question, whether pricing is getting better. So what we mentioned also
in our statement of our prognosis report, we just said that the revenue, the average of the
revenue per unit will be on previous year's level. That means on the average of 2024. And this isin sync with our planning. So the pricing eventually you refer is eventually a transactional price in
individual markets. But of course, we have to consider the net sales revenue per average in our
books. Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
The question with regards to us passing tariff increases in the United States onto our customers,
particularly with regards to 3 Series, Jochen, if you'd like to take that question, please. Thank you.
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Yes, I mean there was one communication because we obviously have customers who ordered
cars and this is basically where we price protect those cars, which I think is fair in the sense of the
customer. How we deal this -- with this in the long term, to be honest, has to be seen because
the situation is extremely volatile and we will deal with that once we know how the customs and
tariff situation is developing. I think what we are doing right now is clearly in our opinion a very fair
business behavior and has been agreed with our dealers.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Jochen. We're moving on to `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays, audio-only.
Thank you, Henning. Please go ahead.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah, hi. Thank you so much for taking my question. Perhaps we can stay on that particular topic.
Can I just ask conceptually, if tariffs are in a magnitude of 25% and we're now on a margin
corridor of 5% to 7%, can you just help us understand a little bit what the potential offsets are? I
mean, there's not a lot of room to absorb very much if you would have had to pass through a
25% price increase to offset the tariff. But can you just explain conceptually, is there any room or
any appetite on your part to digest any of it? There are other parts of the supply chain, perhaps
the dealers that could swallow some of it. If you could just help us conceptually a little bit.
And then the other question is more on the financials. Walter, sorry to come back on the
seasonality. I understand you don't guide by quarters, but your Q1 in 2023 was still 12%. Last year
was 9%. So I think I should assume it would be down on the prior year Q1. Can you perhaps say if
it's inside the corridor -- in the full year corridor, could it be outside the bottom end of the
corridor? Because a lot of your European OEM peers have suggested quite a second-half loaded
margin trajectory.
And perhaps finally if I can squeeze one more just to understand what would take you to the top
or bottom of the margin guidance range as well, because my understanding is the tariffs are
excluded. So the current ones are obviously included. The potential additional ones are excluded,
but still we have a EUR2.5 billion wide margin range. So if you could just help us understand a little
bit what would take you conceptually to the top or bottom? Thank you very much.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Henning. Before we jump to the questions, I've just been asked to again
give everybody a reminder, please to raise your hands to ask your questions. We have a couple
more people waiting in line, but please do so. Going back to your very first question, Henning,
with regards to tariffs, what has been included in the guidance for the year and what would be
the impact of a larger tariff and what would we be able to swallow? Over to you, Walter.A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Henning. So I'm pleased to mention again which tariffs we included. So first of all, the
European Commission had extra tariffs for EV cars imported from China and this will have an
impact should they last until end of this year of a mid-3 digit million [ph] euros. Furthermore, the
Mexico, Canada tariff into the US with 25% you mentioned, if that would last until end of this year,
that would also have a mid-3 digit million impact. And then furthermore we have of course alloy
and steel imported into the USA. This one we classified as a high-double-digit million euros
impact.
Whilst the current tariffs between China and US forward and backwards would have an impact of
a low-3 digit million impact. This is what we classified and this ended up to our judgment of
roughly 1% impact on our EBIT. That's why we had at current tariffs in place as per March 12th, the
new guidance of 5% to 7%, without it would have been 6% to 8%. That is what we quote, Page
261 just for reference.
And I guess you also raised the question with respect to the seasonality on the quarter. Yes, it will
be inside the full year corridor and in quarter one it's usually the upper side than the lower side.
That seasonality is more or less still the same.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Walter. And again to reiterate with regards to the guidance, there are no
mitigation measures, to your other point, no mitigation measures that are factored into the
guidance as Walter described. We're moving on to our next caller, `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank from DZ Bank.
Michael, your line is open now. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank `
Thanks. `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank. Good morning. I have two questions. First one is the clarification in the
press call you mentioned that you have built up provisions of EUR1 billion for tariffs. Can you
explain was it booked in the automotive segment in Q4? That is my question on this topic.
And the second one is, can you also explain a bit of the possibility of -- to offset US tariffs for
imports with your cars exported from the US? Thanks.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Michael. A question again on the EUR1 billion tariff potential and the offset.
Walter, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Michael. Well, I guess there's a misinterpretation. The EUR1 billion is just what I mentioned
to Henning. That is our classification. There is no provision booked. There is no provision book for
these tariffs. Tariffs just will hit first of all my balance sheet once we have import transactions and
will hit my P&L of course once we sell the car. So that is clear, there is no provision for tariffs,
certainly not.
And with respect to offset of US tariffs on imports. So let's speak about export. First of all, once
we produce cars in Spartanburg and we export those ones into the world, these tariffs as far as
we have the right understanding on all the rules on papers will not hit the cost of these exported
cars, but certainly, the imported -- these ones which will stay in the US. That is our clearAnd with respect to other offsetting potentials, of course, we are observing the way. We have
different instruments, we are looking for the supply chain first of all, we have a look on the mix.
We could produce more cars in Spartanburg for the US. So we have different aspects we will
foster. And of course, we have the understanding that hopefully these tariffs will not stay until end
of this year and we will have then, hopefully, the positive impact automatically.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Walter. Next caller in line is `Daniel Schwarz, Analyst, Stifel from Stifel. Good morning,
Daniel.
Q - `Daniel Schwarz, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes, good morning. One question again on cash allocation. As you stated, highest ever dividend
payout ratio for '24, but it's still a significant cut year-over-over. And my question is given the
huge amount of net cash you have, would you consider maybe less focus on the payout ratio
going forward and more focus on the absolute dividend even if that means that occasionally it's
above 40%?
And the second question is a more technical question on Q4, could you clarify what the year-
over-year impact was from guarantee provisions? Did you release provisions in Q4 and did that
have a positive impact on the EBIT margin? Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Daniel. Starting with your first question, probably a very popular question
today, Walter, cash allocation, dividend payout and what it means for the corridor going forward.
Please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Daniel. So with respect to our principles, how we use the cash allocation for dividend as
well as since 2022 for share buybacks that hasn't changed per se, but I just want to underpin
again that we have this highest payout ratio this year, which should be already a signal to the
world that we are sharing more ratio on the dividend payment than before. And of course,
optionally we utilize the share buyback on top of it.
And if you do the calculation, we spent this year already with respect to 2024, the full free cash
flow per dividend or share buybacks so close to 100%. And on top of it, if you calculate that on a
payout ratio inclusive to share buybacks, then we cross the road of 40% not just for '24 but also
already a little bit for '23. So I think we currently still stay to our principles and I think that is good
for our company.
And with respect to your question on the warranty side, I think we have to have a look into the
year '23 Q4 because in '23 we had an extra warranty provision step up and that didn't happen in
Q4 2024 and that's the reason why it eventually looks like we would have had a release or less
provisions for and ultimately in Q4 2024 we had less additional provisions than we had in Q4
2023. That is the key differentiation.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Walter. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to an end of our investor and
analyst Q&A today. Thank you very much for joining us and thank you for your time. The team and
I remain at your disposal for any follow-up questions you may have. We look forward to seeingyou in person at our AGM on May 14th here at the Olympic Hall in Munich and also at our Investor
and Analyst Day on July 15th and 16th where you will get a preview and experience of the Neue
Klasse and get to interact with management and many experts. Thank you very much.