BMW Group Q1 2025 Call: Speeches and
Journalist Q&A

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to the Telephone
Conference of the BMW Group for the First Quarter. Today we have here as always `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management,
Chairman of the Board of Management; and our CFO, `Walter Mertl, Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. First, Walter will take you
through our financial results. Oliver will then give you a general business update for the BMW
Group. After a short break, we will then have time for our Q&A session.
Walter, please, you are the first. Go ahead.
`Walter Mertl, Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Many thanks, Max. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In a highly dynamic environment, the
BMW Group has delivered sales and profitability for the first quarter in line with expectations. Our
core business has a strong foundation of highly attractive products and is well diversified. With a
balanced presence in our sales regions, we have a strong competitive position and are able to
deliver a consistent performance.
In the first quarter, the BMW Group proved this once again. Let's take a look into the key figures
for the first quarter. Group earnings before tax totaled over EUR3.1 billion. Based on group
revenues of EUR33.8 billion, this resulted in a group EBIT margin of 9.2%. The EBIT margin in the
automotive segment came in at the upper end of our 2025 annual target corridor with 6.9%.
Excluding the depreciation resulting from the purchase price allocation of EBA, the margin was
8.1%.
Global retail sales decreased slightly by 1.4% compared to last year's first quarter. Sales of all
electric vehicles, meaning BEV, increased by 32.4%, which represents a share of 18.7% of total
sales.
Let's come to more details how the automotive segment performed across key metrics. In thecustomers. A slight decrease of 1.4% compared to last year's first quarter. While the BMW brand
was slightly down 2% year-on-year, the MINI brand benefited from the full availability of all models
and reported a growth of 4.1%.
Group sales grew across all regions, except China. Here, as expected, the lower run rate of the
second half of 2024 has carried over into the first quarter of 2025. The sales development in the
Chinese market in Q1 was also impacted by the model changeover of our important BMW X3 and
operational challenges in certain areas of the dealer network.
In Europe, the BMW Group increased retail sales solidly by 6.2%. The order intake for BMW
vehicles in the region across our entire product portfolio is strong, with an order bank reaching
well into the third quarter. In particular, BEV retail sales grew by 64.2% in Europe, confirming the
region's crucial role in driving our electrification strategy. In the U.S., year-on-year retail sales grew
by 4%.
Our commitment to electrification remains an important cornerstone of our strategy, and the
demand for our all-electric vehicles remains strong. In the first three months, the BMW Group
delivered almost 110,000 all-electric vehicles to customers worldwide, representing a significant
growth of almost a third. The share of our all-electric vehicles amounted to 18.7% of total sales.
Our electrified vehicles, meaning BEVs and Plug-in Hybrids, accounted for almost 27% of total
sales.
With our comprehensive and compelling lineup of electrified vehicles, we remain confident that
we will meet our CO2 emission targets in the EU of 2025.
Automotive segment revenues amounted to EUR29.2 billion, and were moderately lower than in
the same quarter of 2024, mainly due to lower vehicle sales to dealers. Segment EBIT for the first
three months was over EUR2 billion, with an EBIT margin of 6.9%. Let's now have a detailed look
at the year-on-year changes in the operational results on the next slide.
Auto EBIT declined by around EUR700 million compared to the first quarter of 2024. Changes in
currency and raw material positions accounted for a positive impact of around EUR100 million. A
net balance of volume, model mix, and pricing effects was a headwind of EUR900 million
compared to the first quarter of 2024.
A combined effect from volume and mix was neutral. The pricing headwind compared to Q1 2024
reflects the global price environment and especially the challenges of the highly competitive
Chinese market. In China, the price levels of the second half of 2024 continued into the first
quarter, as expected and explained at the annual conference in March '25. Accordingly, Q1
revenues per vehicle in the automotive segment are below the level of Q1 2024. But for the full
year, they are expected to be in line with last year's level.
Ladies and gentlemen, I emphasize that our annual conference that for the year 2025, not only
R&D expenditure and CapEx, but also operational costs will decrease compared to 2024. Our Q1
results provide first evidence for this cost decrease in nominal terms, covering the effects of
inflation. So research and development expenses were around EUR200 million lower than in Q1
2024. Based on group R&D expenditure, the R&D ratio, according to the German Commercial
Code, came in at 5.9%. Sales and administrative expenses also decreased year-on-year by about
EUR200 million, mainly due to lower IT costs.
In other cost changes, the headwind of EUR300 million essentially results from two topics. The
income from the resale of end-of-lease vehicles was lower than in the first quarter of 2024, yet
remains positive on average across the portfolio. And the anti-subsidy tariffs imposed by the EUCommission on electrified vehicles from China impacted EBIT in the low three-digit million euros
range in Q1. The other tariff increases only started to come into effect from early March and
therefore had minimal impact on the Q1 results.
Free cash flow in the automotive segment totaled about EUR400 million in the first quarter of
2025. Segment EBIT amounted to EUR1.9 billion, which is EUR800 million lower than in the first
three months of 2024. The net change in working capital contributed around EUR100 million to
free cash flow.
Inventories rose during the first quarter as production exceeded retail sales and wholesale
volumes. While this is typical first quarter seasonality, this year's Q1 stock increase is much less
pronounced than in previous years. The impact of increased inventories, as well as of higher
trade receivables, was compensated by the development of trade payables, which increased
also due to higher production levels.
A net effect from capital expenditure and depreciation reduced free cash flow by EUR600 million.
But this includes a positive component with invests lower than depreciation in the first quarter. On
the other hand, it also incorporates a higher cash outflow of EUR964 million in Q1, which is related
to the CapEx peak in the last quarter of 2024.
Capital expenditure for January to March amounted to around EUR1.2 billion, a year-on-year
reduction of around EUR100 million. The CapEx ratio for the first quarter was 3.6%. For the full
year 2025, CapEx will decrease compared to 2024, with an expected CapEx ratio below 6%. The
development of provisions reduced free cash flow by EUR200 million. And the change in the
position other, which includes regular tax payments, led to a reduction in free cash flow of around
EUR800 million. For the full year, the BMW Group is targeting a free cash flow above EUR5 billion
in the automotive segment.
At the end of the first quarter, the automotive net financial assets came in at EUR45.5 billion,
which is around the same level as at the end of 2024. This provides a solid foundation to navigate
the current challenges in global markets. And it enables us to distribute our automotive free cash
flow via dividends and share buybacks.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group remains committed to its shareholder return strategy,
which includes both dividend payments and share buybacks. On April 3rd, we successfully
concluded the fourth and final tranche of our second share buyback program. With completion of
this program, we have repurchased shares valued at EUR4 billion since the start of our share
buyback authorization in 2022. This corresponds to a reduction in share capital of 7.27%.
At the upcoming AGM, the Board of Management of BMW AG will propose an agenda item
seeking a new five-year authorization to acquire treasury shares amounting to up to 10% of share
capital.
Moving on to the Financial Services segment. A number of new contracts concluded with retail
customers decreased slightly by 4.6% year-on-year to reach almost 403,000 contracts. For new
vehicles, new business units were on par with last year's quarter. Consequently, the penetration
rate for lease and loan offerings increased by 1.2 percentage points to 43%.
For used vehicles, new business units decreased moderately due to the lower number of end-of-
lease vehicles that were returned compared to the first quarter of 2024. New business volume
grew by 2.4% to EUR16 billion, driven by a higher average financing amount per contract.
Segment earnings for the first quarter amounted to EUR650 million, a year-on-year decrease of
EUR80 million. This results mainly from two factors, the lower income from the resale of end-of-lease vehicles due to reduced average gains per unit and the lower number of returned vehicles
compared to 2024.
The credit loss ratio across the entire loan portfolio remained at a low rate of 0.23%.
In the Motorcycle segment, first quarter deliveries decreased slightly by 3.9% year-on-year. EBIT
for the first three months totaled EUR76 million with an EBIT margin of 9.4%.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move to our outlook for 2025. Our guidance given at the annual
conference on March 14th included all the tariff increases in force as of March 12th already. Since
then, political and macroeconomic volatility has increased even further. Due to ongoing
developments and negotiations, the expected effects from tariffs on 2025 results can only be
estimated based on certain assumptions. So, we have taken the latest impact as of May 5th,
meaning tariffs on U.S. imports of CBU and non-USMCA components at an additional 25%.
But on the other hand, the executive order from last week regarding non-stacking and the
eligibility of 3.7% of MSRP for the Spartanburg production volume has some positive impact given
our strong local footprint in the U.S. And the extremely high tariffs for imports from the U.S. to
China is neglectable, given we also have a strong local footprint in China. In particular, the
localization of the X5 in 2022 helps mitigating.
And still, the tariff increases that started to come into effect from early March will have a notable
impact on the Q2 results. We assume that some of the tariff increases as of May 5th or up to May
5th will be temporary and that there will be reductions from July 2025. Our guidance also
includes measures to mitigate the impact of higher tariffs. Based on all these assumptions and
footprints, our guidance parameters for the full year remain unchanged. So group earnings
before tax are expected to be at previous year's level.
In the Automotive segment, we are forecasting a slight increase in deliveries. The EBIT margin is
expected in a corridor between 5% and 7%. The EBIT margin in the Motorcycle segment should
come in at between 5.5% and 7.5%. And in the Financial Services segment, we are targeting a
return on equity in the range of 13% to 16% for the full year.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group delivered as expected in the first quarter with an EBIT
margin at the upper end of our full year target corridor. The geopolitical and macroeconomic
uncertainty has reached a level we have rarely seen before. But we are closely monitoring the
impact of the current macroeconomic conditions and consumer sentiment.
It is therefore all the more important that we continue to follow our long-term strategic plan. This
includes using the flexibility of our global network to mitigate the impact of the current
developments. And it includes disciplined spending, be it R&D, CapEx or operating costs. As we
walk the talk, nominal cost reductions are already visible in our Q1 figures. Our clear long-term
strategy, our strong brands and products, and the high level of cost discipline throughout our
entire organization remain the basis for our long-term financial success. Many thanks.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Walter. Now over to our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, please.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Ladies and gentlemen, as a global player, the BMW Group operates within the current tensions of
world politics. Like many sectors of the global economy, we are adjusting to a new reality, one inwhich abrupt changes in external conditions often have far-reaching consequences, not just for
our industry.
In these circumstances, it is critical not to get caught up in the public frenzy or rush into hasty
actions. That is why we continue to focus on our long-term strategic course with pragmatism and
flexibility. And this approach is providing its value. Despite the volatile conditions, the BMW Group
has started 2025 in line with our high expectations.
There are three main reasons for this. First, our fresh and attractive product lineup across all-drive
technologies, which helped us achieve a robust performance, especially in Europe and the United
States of America. Secondly, continued strong sales growth for our all-electric vehicles. And third,
a high standard of cost discipline across the company. All of this meant that, despite various
influencing factors, our profitability for the first quarter was in the upper half of our guidance.
Let's now take a closer look at the details. In all major sales regions outside of China, we
increased our sales compared to the same period of last year. Excluding China, sales grew by
almost 6%. This confirms the effectiveness not only of our product strategy, but also of our
technology-open approach. Our vehicles are in demand across all types of drivetrains. We saw
particularly good growth in Europe and the United States, with sales in Europe up solidly by more
than 6% and an increase of 4% in the United States.
We are growing steadily across the entire Americas region with growth of over 5%. We are also
growing overall in our markets outside of Europe, America and China by 15%. Thanks to our
strong performance in other markets, we were able to nearly offset the persistent challenges in
the Chinese market. We have the right products on the market at the right time. Our wide range
of all-electric vehicles across all brands allows us to take full advantage of the growing demand
for pure electric vehicles. The more than 32% increase in BEV sales underlines the strong appeal
for our electric vehicles.
Above all, high demand in Europe fueled this growth in BEVs. Here, sales of fully electric vehicles
climbed by more than 64% year-on-year. E-mobility made by BMW is also gaining popularity in the
United States with sales up by more than 23%.
Now, nearly one in five vehicles sold by the BMW Group is now fully electric. The total share of
electric vehicles, that is pure electric cars plus plug-in hybrids, now exceeds 25%. MINI, in
particular, is benefiting from the strong demand for all-electric vehicles. Today, an electric heart
beats in one out of every three vehicles built by the brand.
With all models of the new MINI family now fully available, the brand recorded sales growth of 4%.
And in China, locally built electric models played a key role in the brand's growth of over 18%. The
share of fully electric vehicles in total sales is especially important for meeting European CO2
targets. In 2024, the BMW Group once again significantly outperformed its European CO2 fleet
target. Based on internal calculations, our numbers came in at under 100 grams per kilometer in
the WLTP cycle for the first time. And we are confident that we will meet the original legal
requirements this year as well.
In addition to the growth in all-electric vehicles, we also benefited from continued high demand
for our sporty BMW M models, with sales up 5% in the first quarter. High performance models
such as the new BMW M5 variants and the BMW M3 were the main growth drivers.
Ladies and gentlemen, the first quarter of 2025 highlighted our company's ability to seize
opportunities in a challenging environment and to successfully defend our position in themarketplace. Looking ahead, new orders across all-drive technologies give us every reason for
confidence, especially in Germany, where we are seeing significant growth.
Nevertheless, 2025 remains a year of high volatility. We are closely monitoring developments and
preparing for different scenarios. This will enable us to respond flexibly and swiftly to changing
circumstances. We remain firmly committed to deliver robust results and to meet our ambitious
annual targets.
Free trade and international cooperation are important drivers of growth and progress. They
have always guided our actions. In trade conflicts, on the other hand, nobody wins. All sides
should therefore avoid a spiral of isolation and trade barriers and instead promote growth,
progress and innovation worldwide. We are advocating for this at various political levels in our
markets. And thanks to our international footprint and strong long-term commitment in various
countries, we enjoy a high level of credibility. That is why people listen to us attentively and our
arguments are well received.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is especially important in challenging times that we continually assess
the situation in our markets and regions. That is why I have spent significant time in the past few
weeks gathering information about the situation on the ground in our most important markets.
Just two weeks ago, I was at Auto Shanghai. This trade show provides a valuable indicator for
current trends, especially for the Chinese markets. One of the highlights of the show was the
world premiere of our BMW Vision Driving Experience, or VDX for short. This is the most powerful
development prototype BMW has ever built. The key data speaks for itself. 18,000 newton meter
of torque, 1.2 tons of downforce, lateral forces of up to 3G. These are the kind of numbers you
usually only see in top of the range racing cars.
The VDX is a pure test vehicle designed to push the limits of driving physics. However, many of its
technologies will be used in our Neue Klasse. In particular, the VDX showcases the performance
capabilities of our Heart of Joy, one of our four high performance computers that will control key
functionalities, such as driving dynamics, automated driving, and infotainment in our Neue Klasse.
The Heart of Joy clusters all drivetrain and driving dynamics function in a single standardized
electronic control unit. In combination with our dynamic performance control system, which was
developed entirely in-house, we are redefining the BMW brand's most fundamental core
characteristic. We are creating nothing else than the next level of sheer driving pleasure.
We demonstrated exactly what this means with an incredible live performance in Shanghai. And
for this purpose, we built our own test track with a massive ramp. The public and trade press
were more than impressed with the performance and possibilities unleashed when we combined
our decades of experience in driving dynamics with cutting edge control technology. This is
something only we at BMW can do.
Our customers will benefit directly from this, because a system that can manage forces like these
can also handle everyday operations with ease, not just in terms of agility and driving stability, but
also efficiency and comfort.
Towards the end of the year, serious production of the Neue Klasse will begin at our new plant in
Debrecen in Hungary, starting with the brand new BMW iX3, which will celebrate its world
premiere at the IAA Mobility in Munich in September. And after that, the rollout will continue in
rapid succession. In 2026 already, production of a sporty sedan at the heart of the BMW brand
will get underway at our main plant here in Munich.We're deliberately launching the Neue Klasse in high volume segments so that our innovations
can immediately have a broad impact. Between now and 2027, we will release more than 40 new
or updated BMW models onto the market from BEVs to plug-in hybrids to vehicles with
combustion engines. And all of these will benefit from the technologies we develop of the Neue
Klasse, and of course from the new design language as well. No other manufacturer has a project
as comprehensive and groundbreaking as ours ready for production.
Ladies and gentlemen, with its broad product portfolio across all brands, its technology-open
approach, and highly flexible production network, the BMW Group is in an excellent position to
exploit growth opportunities as they arise. Thanks to our global footprint, we are also able to
respond quickly to changes in individual regions as well as challenges around the world. We will
continue to build on this typical BMW strength in the future. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Yes. Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll now have a short break before we
move on to the Q&A session. See you in five minutes. Thank you very much.
(Break)
Dear colleagues, welcome back to our second part of our quarterly conference. We're going to
continue in German. We're looking forward to your questions. First of all, there are some technical
instructions before we then get started with the first question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to start with a Q&A session. (Operator Instructions). Our first
question is by `Christina Amann, Thomson Reuters by Thomson Reuters. Please switch on your microphone.
Q - `Christina Amann, Thomson Reuters
Good morning. I was able to switch on my mic. Good morning, gentlemen, Mr.Zipse, Mr.Mertl. I
have a number of questions Mr.Mertl, you talked about mitigating measures which were
introduced by BMW in order to offset the tariff effects and then you mentioned that in the second
quarter the tariffs will have a more pronounced effect in the books. Can you give us some more
information about that in terms of figures.
And Mr.Zipse, you were quite hopeful before that your talks on several political levels will provide
progress in terms of free trade, maybe you can tell us more about that why you're so optimistic
here and what to expect here, what are you doing, who you are talking to, and then also the
forecast as of June, the tariffs might go down again, why are you so optimistic about that?
And then the last question is, what does the situation look like? In China, business is not going too
well. The competitors are doing badly and the BMW is also feeling it. What is your outlook for
China?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Ms.Amann, we're dealing with China and the mitigating measures that's dealt with by
Mr.Mertl and the rest by Mr.Zipse.A - `Walter Mertl, Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Ms.Amann. As I said earlier, we were the first ones in March which set aside 1% of
EBIT for all the tariffs as of March 12th until March 5th. Of course, the tariffs for CBUs in the USA
have been added 25% on top. But as I said, last week we had the last executive order that there
would be no additional on top or additive taxes, no more stacking that is not going to happen,
that is the first impact.
And the second impact is that there's also a reduction of 3.75% of MSRP not for the cost but for
the local production in Spartanburg, and that has a major effect and mitigates the U.S. import
tariffs as of March 12th on top. And I just wanted to point out what our footprint looks like. It is
different compared to our competitors. And let me stress that once again. We are set up
differently. We have been producing in the U.S., for example, the X3 and the X4, which others are
not doing. And also the X5 and X6 and X7, that is different.
And then I also added that the impact, and that happened since March 12th, though, 125% and
145% between America and China. They have hardly any effect on us either because we also
have a very strong footprint in China. And that might also look different for our competitors. But
we have a negligible part, which we're shipping from the U.S. to China, and therefore it doesn't
have a major effect on us.
And also something you shouldn't overlook is compared to our competitors, we have a joint
venture, BBL, with 75% share. So we are participating from the local margin. So there are different
effects you have to take into account. And then, of course, we have also other mitigation topics,
for example, parts and components. They have been shipped early into the country, but also
other OEMs did that. And then, of course, we are set up very well in our market.
Our inventory is at 30 days. Some of our competitors are at 45 days or even more. That also has
an effect. And then we're also leveraging everything we can do. So there's a whole bunch of
topics which helps us restructure our production because of our global footprint. And we're
making use of that. And that is something I need to say firstly.
And then also we are following the news and the media. And we can see that things are
happening and negotiations are taking place. And through all the networks which are at our
disposal, we believe there will be some changes as of July. We're not saying that it will go down
to zero. That would be our hope. But we do expect that the impact will be reduced.
And back to your second quarter question, I cannot give you any figures exactly, only for the
yearly figures. And we're looking at 5% to 7%, including all the tariffs and including mitigation
measures. And that means that in a first step, everything which we have imported in March and in
April that will have an effect and the tariffs which will be lowered as of July as we expect that will
have an effect on Q3. So the major effect will be in Q2 and then after that it will go down again.
And about China briefly, in March we already mentioned that we will be on the volume and price
level of the second half of 2024 that will be the start for '25 as well and in our forecast we wrote
that it means that the first quarter will have an impact. Also the second quarter will have an impact
where it also got weaker last year but it has less of an impact because it will be the level of the
second half of last year as far as volume and price goes and then it stabilizes so in the first half
year, it will be the biggest impact of China and then the X3 which has been available in other
parts of the world and in China, it was only launched in February and the ramp-up curve will
improve as of Q2, and therefore, we still adhere to our forecast.Thank you, Walter. And Mr.Zipse, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Ms.Amann, let me mention two things and these two things determine our discussion which
we have on several levels in Washington as well as in South Carolina and in the EU.
Well, first of all, we are trying to tell all parties concerned that the world is highly interlinked. If you
look at a movement going from a resource to a final product, you cannot turn it back, that's
different from the 1970s and '80s. So in the end, there will only be losers if you want to lock
yourself off from the outside. That is the first thing we're communicating and what we're trying to
do and the second is specific to the United States.
There are three elements caused by the tariffs, so in the short term what -- if the effects of the
tariffs between the U.S., and Canada and Mexico, for example, we believe that the NAFTA will be
restituted once again because they're so tightly connected and it will take a while until a new
negotiation system is put into place but that is what we assume because the disadvantages that
are far too big for everybody.
And secondly, and this is something specific to BMW, we have a high value added in the U.S. and
we're exporting a lot. And Spartanburg, which is our largest plant, we have produced more than 7
million vehicles in the past years. And in 2024, we'll produce 400,000 vehicles. And that means
last year, we sold 225 vehicles, more than 50%, and exported them. And that means we were
the largest automotive exporter, according to value in the U.S.
And since 2014, we have exported 2.7 million vehicles. That means two-thirds of the whole
production with an export value of more than USD100 billion. And we have made huge
investments for that and what is happening right now, and that is quite relevant for the current
discussion, for the production of fully electric vehicles in the U.S. We're investing currently USD1.7
billion, $1 billion for the BEV production close to Spartanburg. And that's something we already
started back in 2022, or we announced it back then.
And our activities in South Carolina, we have 43,000 jobs and USD3 billion in wages. And BMW
stands for a total economic effect of EUR26 billion in South Carolina. And since we're the largest
exporter, we believe that in some way, shape or form that will have an effect in our negotiations.
How it will have an effect, we cannot tell you exactly. But we can see that it will be not ignored our
large footprint there. These are the two important things in the current discussion. And thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management. Next question, please.
Operator
My next question is by `Markus Fasse, Handelsblatt from Handelsblatt.
Q - `Markus Fasse, Handelsblatt
Good morning, gentlemen. I would like to add tothat since you're having such constructive
dialogues in the United States, there are also tariffs of 10% from the U.S. into the EU. Will you also
be able to discuss that? Can you also solve that in your negotiations with the EU as well, because
you would also profit from that? And that could also strengthen your negotiating position in the
U.S. Maybe you can suggest a solution here as well.And the second question refers to China as well. I think a decrease of 17% is quite substantial.
And apparently, you did not take part in the price war because it's not worth it for you. And you
were in Shanghai, and you've seen how the market has changed. Can you tell us something
about how you see the market and what your strategy is, so that you do not lose more ground to
Chinese competitors? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Mr.Fasse. Both answers will be provided by Mr.Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Good morning, Mr.Fasse. Well, first of all, about the tariffs, once again, if we take a look at the
world, well, currently, everybody is going against everybody with tariffs. So we want to abolish
tariffs, abolish tariffs on the basis of co-operations and negotiated agreements. Of course, you
need to see eye to eye and establish justice in trade relations. And therefore, we want to reduce
it to 0 for the U.S. as well as for the EU. When we look at the 10% from the U.S. to Europe, that
has been in place for many, many years, and it has never threatened our business model. In the
other direction, it was 2.5%. And 2.5%, that's almost -- I mean, the admin costs are almost higher
than the tariffs. So zero, zero is our core demand.
But we should also not overlook, and it's also good that you mentioned it, between China and
Europe, there is also an import tariff induced by the EU by 30%. So the higher tariffs are not
caused by the U.S., but by the EU, as far as Chinese vehicles -- Chinese electric vehicles are
concerned. And that leads to a massive distortion of the market. And it also prevents in the lower
market segments that electric vehicles will be provided for the customers. That's also part of our
overall arguments we have.
And then back to China, China is quite interesting. And the figure you mentioned is, of course,
not positive. Well, first of all, we are -- it is still the largest market for us. And we're still looking
good compared to our competitors. What is happening, and what we should be doing is, we also
restructuring our dealership structure. So, in a time of exponential growth, of course, there were
sales structures which were no longer efficient. And I'm actually in favor of restructuring that
quickly.
That's part of the 70% as well, but that will be over shortly. So, we expect for the second half of
the year, we expect a significant stabilization. You will no longer see these decreases and you will
also see that in the second quarter already that these figures will be reduced. So, we're dealing
with that boldly.
And as you said, the price war doesn't make sense. And the Shanghai Motor Show showed us
that we are quite competitive. So, this decrease has nothing to do with a lack of competitiveness.
There are some structural topics which we're working on. And then BMW, just like in the previous
years, with around 700,000 vehicles, that's what we will see. That is my answer to that.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Mr.Zipse. And the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is by `Daniel Zwick, Pflege from Pflege. Please switch on your microphone.
Q - `Daniel Zwick, Pflege `Good morning. Thank you. I've got two questions. First of all, about the United States. Mr.Zipse, is
it correct that you together with two other gentlemen, you talked to Donald Trump directly? And
if so, then of course, you're not going to be able to tell us some details. But what was your
impression? And what did you offer the U.S. government in order to show willingness that you're
making a step towards the government there?
And then I have a second question about Europe. Yesterday, there was an interview published by
the heads of Renault and Stellantis. And they complained that in Europe, there's an
overregulation for vehicles, which can be traced back to the premium manufacturers of Germany.
And they want less strict regulations for small vehicles. Would you agree with that? And is there
an overregulation and are you responsible for it?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Mr.Zwick. Well, Mr.Zipse will be answering both questions.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, good morning, Mr.Zwick. Once again, about the United States. As you know, we have been
in the U.S. for very many years. We have deep roots there. And that is true for our political
relations as well. And we have had the closest dialogue on a state level, not only South Carolina,
but also California, but also on a national level. And that means also political representatives on all
different levels, of course. And apart from that, I cannot give you more information and comment
on speculation.
And the second question about the EU regulation or overregulation. Of course, I read the
interview as well. Of course, there's some truth to it. Of course, we are overregulated in Europe.
You know my arguments. Europe is focusing on exit regulations instead of thinking about how to
get in relations and everything is being overregulated. And what both of the gentlemen have
said, the sum of all the regulations hems the industry in Europe. And I say that quite clearly and
openly. I mean, I can only underline that referring to that interview, that does not mean that we
can get rid of everything. But we should do it in such a way so that it becomes beneficial to the
citizens, reduces CO2, reduces accidents.
But how it is being done, I mean, there's -- it's always a little too much of everything. And, of
course, there should be -- whether there should be different regulations for different vehicle
segments, that is a difficult topic, because they're all in the same -- acting in the same traffic
environment. And you don't want to have different safety standards for different vehicle
segments. Of course, there could be different segments.
Maybe you could have city cars, which are not allowed on freeways. That is something that could
be discussed. But I would not divide the automotive industry in two parts. The small cars on the
one hand, with other safety requirements. I mean, reducing overregulation is correct. Different
segmentation, that is something you need to look at very carefully, unless if you don't want to
create an unfair competition.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Mr.Zwick. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is by `Wilfried Eckl-Dorna, Bloomberg from Bloomberg News. Please switch on yourQ - `Wilfried Eckl-Dorna, Bloomberg `
Hello. I hope you can hear me. I have two very short questions. On the one hand, I wanted to
know from Mr.Zipse and Mr.Mertl, you have mentioned in your outlook that for some markets or
several markets, you expect an increasing demand for quite a lot of markets because of lower
inflation. In which markets do you expect an increasing demand? Obviously, it is not China, but
maybe you can give us more information. Where do you expect an increase in demand for this
year?
And the second question is towards the tariffs. Maybe you can tell us more in the negotiations
with the U.S. government. Maybe you can tell us more about the communication there. And you
said that you believe that you have a very strong argument because of your big footprint in
Spartanburg. And what does the other side -- how does the other side react to that when you're
using that argument?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Mr.Eckl-Dorna. Mr.Mertl will start.
A - `Walter Mertl, Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Mr.Eckl-Dorna. Well, our forecast is saying that we're growing in almost all of the
markets with the exception of China. We never forecasted that for China. In the U.S., we have an
effect in March and in April where we're doing well more than 4% growth as of March. Also in
Europe, we have been growing as of March by over 6%. And we believe that this growth will
continue. And in China, as I said earlier, in March, we already said that we will see a similar level
compared to the second half of 2024, especially the Q4 was weak in China. We don't want to
repeat that. But with the Q3, it looks pretty -- compared to the Q3, the current situation looks
similar.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, we're happy that we have a new government and we congratulate the chancellor that he
has been elected. Hopefully, they're going to -- it will be decisive that they start their work soon in
order to deal with the challenges. Our core arguments, our main arguments, we want to see a
greater focus on the automotive industry and we have said we want to be open in terms of
technology. We want to drive innovation forward, but also we want to reduce CO2 and then also
we want to safeguard our competitiveness in a global industry.
And it is very important in Germany, there are a lot of global companies, which are not only have
to be successful in Europe or -- in Europe, but worldwide. They have a leading role worldwide that
also includes the U.S. and North America as a whole, but also the Chinese market as well as other
Asian markets. And it is very important that these worldwide links, which characterize Germany
and Europe, that this needs to be focused on, that we have this international network.
Operator
Next question by Stephen William[ph] from Wall Street Journal. Please switch on your
microphone.
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, Wall Street Journal
Hi, there. It's `Stephen Wilmot, Wall Street Journal here from the Wall Street Journal. To go back to the tariff questions,guidance. And as you all know, obviously this rebate is temporary. It's supposed to fall next year
and then disappear the year after. Of course, we don't know how things will actually turn out, but
-- and you also were saying that you believe the NAFTA USMCA will be restored.
In the logic of that, i.e., that parts won't be tariffed from Mexico and Canada perhaps, but they will
be in future from elsewhere, is there a logic to localizing more of your supply chain for
Spartanburg such as power trains to reduce your tariff exposure longer term? Is that something
that you've been exploring? Is there anything you can say about that?
And second question, a bit more briefly is, do you see any signs of a demand response in the
U.S., as a result of the imposition of tariffs? Any nervousness among consumers, for example?
Thank you.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Thank you for your question. Well, what is happening currently is we are investing in the
drivetrains in the U.S. for the fully electric vehicles. We're investing currently $1.2 billion, $1 billion for
the BEV production in Spartanburg and $700 million for the high voltage batteries in Woodruff.
These are the investments which we're doing locally. And that is part of the drivetrain, of course,
because our drivetrains, as you know, they not only consist of ICEs, but also they consist of
electric drives, and we're investing there where we need to create new capacities where we
want to grow. And that is mainly the electric drives right now.
So to answer your question, we're doing exactly that, more localization in order to enable our
growth. And as far as the North American market is concerned, we are quite confident that we
can generate further growth with our products. We don't want to remain on a status quo, where
we're trying to safeguard what we have achieved so far. No, we see a growth potential there and
that's why we're investing there.
And your first question, USMCA, that is a very logical construct, where all parties concerned are
profiting. And that means more localization is being useful. And it also leads to the effect that you
can export more. And then this, what I call, the export credit that can be included in this logic. And
that would be a good result, if we were to get to a point where we could say that, where we
have talked with each other, everybody, and then we will achieve a balance. And hopefully this will
happen during the course of this year.
So we have time for two more questions. So please go ahead with your questions.
Operator
The next question is by Christoph Remeyer[ph] by dpa. Please switch on your microphone.
Q - Analyst
Good morning. I have two questions. One is quite simple about your yearly forecast. The
headcount was on the previous year's level, and I expect that to remain like that. And then back
to the cost of the tariffs in your yearly forecast, you mentioned what costs to expect. I mean, with
the updated forecast, how much of an effect will the tariffs have in total? And maybe you can tell
us, in particular, what the effect of the U.S. tariffs will be?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Well, thank you, Mr.Remeyer. And Mr.Mertl will answer your questions.A - `Walter Mertl, Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Mr.Remeyer. Yes, I can confirm that as far as the headcount goes, we will stay on
previous year's level for the whole world, and we will stay in that corridor. And I cannot give you
any precise figures right now. But of course, we can calculate based on our guidance what we
said in March. It is about 1 percentage point. And then it depends on what our negotiations will
lead to. There will be a slight negative effect compared to March 12th. But it is all within our
guidance for our automotive section, but also for the group result. And we will adhere to the
figures mentioned in our guidance.
Operator
And then the last question by Mr.`Frank Volk, Automobilwoche from Automobilwoche. Please switch on your
microphone.
Q - `Frank Volk, Automobilwoche `
Good morning. I have two or two and a half questions. One more question about the U.S. figures.
You mentioned the figures as of March, but you said that there were some -- what would you
expect --
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Mr.Volk, could you speak up? You are hard to understand.
Q - `Frank Volk, Automobilwoche `
Is it better now? You said something about 4% in March and that there were some -- what are
your expectations for the rest of the year? And the second question, and that is a question on
relation referring to Germany. You are stressing the flexibility of your production network and a
large number of the vehicles which are being exported into the U.S., they are actually being
produced in Dingolfing and Bavaria. And what effect will that have on the production? What -- will
the tariffs have? And does that mean adjustments in the production? These were two questions
or two and a half questions.
Well, the next question would be a comment on what Mr.Zipse has said. You had quite impressive
figures for the U.S. as far as the investments goes over the course of the years. But the U.S.
government knew about these figures and they were never interested in that. So, why are you so
optimistic as far as your talks go that they will be more successful in the future?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Okay, Mr.Volk. We will start with Mr.Mertl and then the last part about the U.S. will be answered by
Mr.Zipse.
A - `Walter Mertl, Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Mr.Volk. As I said earlier, we expect growth in the United States and you should
not overlook one thing. We are unlike other OEMs as far as our footprint in the U.S. goes. We
have advantages. We're producing and selling X3, X4 produced in Spartanburg, X5, X6, X7, XM.
That is a main difference compared to some of our competitors. That is a clear advantage, and
we will make use of that. And effects on other productions, of course, we use our global
production network worldwide. We're optimizing that, the flows of goods into different regions,A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Mr.Volk, of course, you are correct. The U.S. government knew about it beforehand. They are
aware of that, but in our discussions, we have stressed what it would mean if on a 100% -- if you
had a 100% local for local system, that would have two effects. Of course, you could produce
other vehicles in the U.S., which would increase the volume, but other vehicles could no longer be
built in the U.S. Because of the volume, it wouldn't be worth it. But in total, the overall volume
would decrease in the U.S., and nobody wants to see that. And that is something we're noticing.
And while that is not at the heart of this discussion, that has to do with the fact that Mr.Mertl
mentioned, we're the only ones who have such a footprint. So, people do understand the whole
situation quite well.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Director, Corporate Affairs
Thank you, Mr.Mertl and Mr.Zipse. That was our phone conference for the first quarter. Thank you
so much and servus from Munich.